What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]  Henry Master Feilden (21 February 1818 – 5 September 1875) was an English Conservative Party politician.
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP] Bernard Feilden (1919–2008), British conservation architect ; Bob Feilden (1917–2004), British mechanical engineer ; Gerry Feilden (1904–1981), British general and horse racing identity ; Henry Feilden (disambiguation) ; Joseph Feilden (1824–1895), British politician ; Richard Feilden (1950–2005), British architect ; William Feilden (1772–1850), British politician
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]  Henry Wemyss Feilden, second son of the second Baronet, was an Arctic explorer.
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]  Feilden was born in Hampstead, London. He was educated at Bedford School and The Bartlett School of Architecture, University College, London, completing his training at the Architectural Association after the second world war. His love of architecture was inherited from his grandfather, Brightwen Binyon (1846-1905), an Ipswich architect and former pupil of Alfred Waterhouse. He joined the practice of Edward Boardman and Son in Norwich, where he designed the Trinity United Reformed Church. He set up an architectural practice, Feilden+Mawson, with David Mawson in 1956, to which offices in Norwich, London and Cambridge were later added. In 1968 Feilden took over as consultant architect to the University
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]  Colonel Henry Wemyss Feilden, CB (6 October 1838 – 8 June 1921) was a British Army officer, Arctic explorer and naturalist.
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP] Henry Feilden (Conservative politician)  Henry Master Feilden (21 February 1818 – 5 September 1875) was an English Conservative Party politician.
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP] Edward Hornby  Edward Kenworthy Hornby (16 June 1839, in Blackburn – 25 June 1887) was an English Conservative Party politician. He sat in the House of Commons from 1869 to 1874.
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP] Daniel Thwaites  Daniel Thwaites (1817 – 21 September 1888) was an English brewer<ref name="gazette-1875" /> and a Conservative Party<ref name="craig1832-1885" /> politician from Blackburn in Lancashire. He owned what is now Thwaites Brewery, and sat in the House of Commons from 1875 to 1880.  He was the son of Daniel Thwaites (1777–1843), an excise man who in 1807 had become one of the three partners of the Eanam Brewery in Blackburn, and sole owner of the business in 1824. The younger Daniel inherited the business in partnership with two of his brothers, and became sole owner in 1857.<ref name="thwaites-200" />  At the 1874 general election, he unsuccessfully contested the borough of Blackburn. However, he won the seat at a by-election in October 1875 after the death of Henry Master Feilden, and was one of the two Members of Parliament (MPs) for Blackburn until his defeat at the 1880 general election.<ref name="craig1832-1885" />
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]
What is Henry Feilden's occupation? [SEP]
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]  Espinal was born and raised in the Santa Rita district of Yoro. In a 2009 interview he said that from an early age he had aspirations of becoming a journalist. In his youth, Espinal was active in the La Fragua theater company in El Progreso, Yoro.
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]  Herlyn Iván Espinal Martínez (14 September 1982 – 20 July 2014) was a Honduran journalist and television reporter who worked as chief correspondent in San Pedro Sula, the second largest city in Honduras, for Televicentro's daily newscast Hoy Mismo. Espinal was abducted in the vicinity of Santa Rita, in the department of Yoro, early on the morning of 20 July 2014. He was found dead, a victim of multiple gunshot wounds, in a nearby location on the morning of 21 July. He was the forty-third journalist killed in Honduras since 2013.
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]  Espinal was found dead on 21 July 2014. He was 31 at the time of his murder. In the aftermath of his murder, contradictory information circulated regarding the last hours of his life and the circumstances of his death. Some sources claimed he was shot two times, others that he had been shot up to five times. One report of his death stated that the city in which he worked, San Pedro Sula, is "considered the most violent city in the most violent country on the planet". Espinal's mother stated that he had been at her home in Santa Rita watching television around 9
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]  His first job as a journalist was with a local television channel in Agua Blanca Sur, Yoro, as a reporter and a presenter. He did both his own field work and presented it later on camera. He told an interviewer that journalists should always be "objective, impartial, and honest", and that journalists who take bribes will ultimately be exposed, adding, "Truth is mighty and will prevail". He also worked as a correspondent for Radio Progreso. Both the La Frague theater company and Radio Progreso were founded by the Jesuit order in El Progreso, Yoro. As chief correspondent for Hoy Mismo, which aired in San Pedro
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]  on July 19 when an unidentified man phoned and arranged a meeting, which Espinal agree to. Later that evening, according to multiple accounts, Espinal met with friends at a restaurant in Santa Rita, and also left with friends very early on the morning of July 20, 2014. He reportedly arrived back at his mother's home around 3 a.m., parked his car in front of the house, and then voluntarily entered a white panel truck in which three other persons were seated. Some sources added further details, some of which appeared to conflict with others for timeline reasons. It was stated, for example, that
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP] Herlyn Espinal  Herlyn Iván Espinal Martínez (14 September 1982 20 July 2014) was a Honduran journalist and television reporter who worked as chief correspondent in San Pedro Sula, the second largest city in Honduras, for Televicentro's daily newscast "Hoy Mismo".  Espinal was abducted in the vicinity of Santa Rita, in the department of Yoro, early on the morning of 20 July 2014. He was found dead, a victim of multiple gunshot wounds, in a nearby location on the morning of 21 July. He was the forty-third journalist killed in Honduras since 2013.
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP]
What is Herlyn Espinal's occupation? [SEP] 2014. He reportedly arrived back at his mother's home around 3 a.m., parked his car in front of the house, and then voluntarily entered a white panel truck in which three other persons were seated. Some sources added further details, some of which appeared to conflict with others for timeline reasons. It was stated, for example, that Espinal, after leaving Las Tejas at around 2 a.m., had soon after joined up with friends with whom he proceeded to socialize at various other places in Santa Rita. Another detail that was mentioned in some reports but not others had Espinal arriving
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP]  Corser was born at Upton Cressett, near Birmingham in England, and was educated in Worcester. He migrated to Brisbane, Queensland with his family in 1864 and worked for three years on the Maryborough Sugar Company's plantation. He then worked as a clerk for the Commercial Banking Company of Sydney, variously stationed in Maryborough, Brisbane and Gayndah, rising to become acting manager of the Gayndah branch at the age of 21. In 1872, he opened his own wholesale merchant business, Corser and Co. Ltd., which became a "large commercial establishment" at Maryborough selling wine, spirits and general merchandise, and continued to be managed by one of his sons after he entered
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP]  Edward Bernard Cresset Corser (1852 &ndash; 31 July 1928) was an Australian politician. He was a Liberal Party member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly for Maryborough from 1909 to 1915 and a Commonwealth Liberal Party and then Nationalist Party member of the Australian House of Representatives from 1915 until his death.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP]  Corser was a co-founder and president of the Maryborough Chamber of Commerce, a long-serving member and nine-year chairman of the Burrum Divisional Board, president of the Maryborough Harbour Board, president of the Western Railway Association, one of the original shareholders of the Maryborough Co-operative Dairy Association Ltd., and was a member and president of the Maryborough Grammar School board and local hospitals' committee. As a prominent local figure prior to his entry into politics, he championed the construction of the Nanango railway line, Gayndah railway line and the failed Port of Urangan project. He was a supporter of both Federation and the White Australia Policy and was a strong protectionist.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP] Bernard Corser, (1882–1967) Australian politician ; Edward Corser, (1852–1928) Australian politician ; Frederick Corser, (1849–1924) American architect ; Rodger Corser, (born 1973) Australian actor ; Thomas Corser, (1793–1876) British clergyman ; Troy Corser, (born 1971) Australian motorcycle racer Corser is a surname, and may refer to:
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP]  Corser was born at Maryborough in 1882 to Edward Corser and Mary Jane (née Stewart). He was educated at Maryborough Christian Brothers' School, Riverview College, Sydney, and returned to Queensland to study at Queensland Agricultural College, Gatton.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP] Edward Corser  Edward Bernard Cresset Corser (1852 – 31 July 1928) was an Australian politician. He was a Liberal Party member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly for Maryborough from 1909 to 1915 and a Commonwealth Liberal Party and then Nationalist Party member of the Australian House of Representatives from 1915 until his death.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP] Bernard Corser  Bernard Henry Corser (4 January 1882 – 15 December 1967) was a politician in Queensland, Australia. He was a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly from 1912 to 1928 and a member of the Australian House of Representatives from 1928 to 1954.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP] Charles Joseph Booker  Charles Joseph Booker (3 June 1865 – 4 June 1925) was a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP] William Mitchell (Australian politician)  William Mitchell (March 1850 - 21 May 1923) was a member of the Queensland Legislative Assembly.
What is Edward Corser's occupation? [SEP]
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP]  John Finlay (16 February 1919 – 5 March 1985) was an English professional footballer who played as an inside forward for Sunderland. John Finlay made his debut on the 11th of September 1946 as a substitute for Sunderland AFC on their 4th match of the season in Division 1 against Charlton Athletic. 27,425 attended the match witnessing John's Debut. The Match which started at 6:00pm at Charlton Athletic's stadium “The Valley” was refereed by W.H.E Evans
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP]  Source:
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP]  John Finlay (1782–1810) was a Scottish poet.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP]  Finlay was born in Glasgow in December 1782. He was educated in one of the academies at Glasgow, and at the age of fourteen entered the university, where he had as a classmate John Wilson (alias 'Christopher North'), who states that he was distinguished "above most of his contemporaries". The prospect of obtaining a situation in one of the public offices led him to visit London in 1807, and while there he contributed to the magazines some articles on antiquarian subjects. Not finding suitable employment he returned to Glasgow in 1808. He began to collect materials for a continuation of Warton's History of Poetry, but in 1810 he left Glasgow to visit Professor Wilson at Ellerlay, Westmoreland; on the way he fell ill at Moffat, and died there on 8 December.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP]  John Finlay (April 22, 1837 &ndash; November 13, 1910) was a Canadian politician. Born in Dummer Township, Peterborough County, Upper Canada, Finlay was educated in the Public Schools of Dummer. A manufacturer, Finlay was Councillor and Reeve of the Village of Norwood and County Councillor. He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada for the electoral district of Peterborough East in the general elections of 1904. A Liberal, he did not run in the 1908 elections.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP] John Martin Finlay  John Martin Finlay (January 24, 1941 – February 17, 1991) was an American poet and writer of essays, reviews, fiction, letters, and diaries.   Finlay is best known for his posthumously published poetry collection, "Mind and Blood: The Collected Poems of John Finlay".
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP] Jacques Raphael Finlay  Jacques Raphaël Finlay (1768–1828), commonly known as Jaco or Jacco (pr. Jocko), was an early Canadian fur trader, scout, and explorer associated with the North West Company. He built Spokane House and Kootanae House, two key fur-trading posts of the era, and helped David Thompson cross the Continental Divide and discover the Columbia River.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP] Francis Dalzell Finlay  Francis Dalzell Finlay (1793–1857), was an Irish journalist.  Finlay was the son of John Finlay, tenant farmer, of Newtownards, County Down, by his wife, Jane Dalzell, was born 12 July 1793 at Newtownards, and began life as a printer's apprentice in Belfast, where he started as a master printer in 1820. The letterpress which issued from his works was distinguished by both accuracy and elegance, being far superior to any that had previously been produced in Ireland.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP] David Rintoul  David Rintoul (born David Wilson; 29 November 1948) is a Scottish stage and television actor. Rintoul was born in Aberdeen, Scotland. He studied at the University of Edinburgh, and won a scholarship to study at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London.
What is John Finlay's occupation? [SEP] George Finlay  George Finlay (21 December 1799 – 26 January 1875) was a Scottish historian.
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP]   Bruce McDaniel (born September 23, 1962) is an American musician, composer, producer and recording engineer, currently living in New Orleans. Bruce McDaniel was born in Boston, Massachusetts of Mexican and Scottish/American parents on 23 September 1962 and grew up in New York. He was raised by musical parents who met while attending the Juilliard School of Music. He had an early start in NYC's underground punk rock scene as lead guitarist for the Sic F*cks with Tish Bellomo and Snooky Bellomo, a band who, despite the inability to have their name said on the radio, parlayed their comedy-punk spectacle to a feature in Playboy Magazine and movie appearances, including 1982's Alone in
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP]  '91" poster. An official AFL-CIO special-run artist-signed copy of this print is in the University of Missouri St. Louis Art Collection – "The Bruce & Barbara Feldacker Labor Art Collection", and the Special Collections of the Frostburg State University, Frostburg, MD. McDaniel has also conceived and produced short films and film titles, among them the film ICE (Idea, Composition, and Execution) and the film titles for The Bolshoi at The Bolshoi. In 2008, the New York Society of Illustrators commemorated the 50th anniversary of their Annual Show by publishing a book entitled Icons and Images: 50 Years of Illustration, containing 500
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP]  Randall Cornell McDaniel (born December 19, 1964) is an American former football player who was a guard in the National Football League (NFL).
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP]  Edward McDaniel (born March 23, 1969) is a former American football linebacker in the NFL. He was drafted by the Minnesota Vikings, 5th round (125th overall) of the 1992 Draft. He spent his entire professional career with the Minnesota Vikings. McDaniel is a co-owner of D1 Sports Training in Greenville, South Carolina. He resides in a suburb of the Twin Cities in Minnesota and owns a number of apartment buildings in Minneapolis and St. Paul.
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP]  John McDaniel (born September 23, 1951 in Birmingham, Alabama) is a former American football wide receiver in the National Football League for the Cincinnati Bengals and the Washington Redskins. He played college football at Lincoln University of Missouri and was drafted in the eighth round of the 1974 NFL Draft.
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP] Gene McDaniels  Eugene Booker McDaniels (February 12, 1935 – July 29, 2011) was an American singer and songwriter. He had his greatest recording success in the early 1960s, reaching number three on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 singles chart with "A Hundred Pounds of Clay" and number five with "Tower Of Strength," both hits in 1961. He had continued success as a songwriter with titles including "Compared to What" and Roberta Flack's "Feel Like Makin' Love".
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP] Bruce Channel  Bruce Channel ( ; born November 28, 1940) is an American singer-songwriter best known for his 1962 million-selling number-one hit record, "Hey! Baby".
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP] Bo Diddley  Ellas McDaniel (born Ellas Otha Bates; December 30, 1928 – June 2, 2008), known professionally as Bo Diddley, was an American guitarist who played a key role in the transition from the blues to rock and roll. He influenced many artists, including Buddy Holly, Elvis Presley, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Animals, George Thorogood, and The Clash.  His use of African rhythms and a signature beat, a simple five-accent hambone rhythm, is a cornerstone of hip hop, rock, and pop music. In recognition of his achievements, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987, the Blues Hall of Fame in 2003, and the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame in 2017. Diddley is also recognized for his technical innovations, including his use of tremolo and reverb effects to enhance the sound of his distinctive rectangular-shaped guitars.
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP] Jay McDaniel  Jay B. McDaniel is an American philosopher and theologian. He specializes in Buddhism, Whiteheadian process philosophy and process theology, constructive theology, ecotheology, interfaith dialogue, and spirituality in an age of consumerism. His current interest is "to see how these myriad concerns might unfold in China".  In addition to publishing numerous books and articles, McDaniel is an active voices for process philosophy and theology on social media. He runs a blog called [www.openhorizons.org "Open Horizons"], formerly "Jesus, Jazz, and Buddhism", whose aim is "to offer ideas that might help people create multi-cultural, interfaith communities that are creative, compassionate, participatory, ecologically wise, and spiritually enjoyable". He also created a series of YouTube videos on process thought. He's also a consultant for the China Project of the Center for Process Studies in Claremont, California, and a member of the advisory board of the Institute for Postmodern Development of China.  He earned a B.A. in English literature and Philosophy from Vanderbilt University and a Ph.D. in Philosophy of Religion and Theology from Claremont Graduate University.<ref name="about"/>
What is Bruce McDaniel's occupation? [SEP] Fritz Werner  Fritz Werner (15 December 1898 – 22 December 1977) was a German choral conductor, church music director, conductor, organist and composer. He founded the Heinrich-Schütz-Chor Heilbronn in 1947 and conducted it until 1973.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]  Edwin Wallock (November 6, 1877 &ndash; February 4, 1951) was an American actor of the silent film era. He appeared in 60 films between 1912 and 1923. He was born in Council Bluffs, Iowa and died in Los Angeles, California.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]  Ronald Wallwork (born 10 September 1977) is an English former professional footballer who played as a midfielder. An England under-20 international, he began his career at Manchester United, where he made his professional debut in 1997. He never fully established himself in the United first-team however, and was loaned out to Carlisle United and Stockport County. During a further loan spell at Royal Antwerp, he was banned from football for life for attacking a Belgian referee, although the ban was later substantially reduced. In 2002, Wallwork moved to West Bromwich Albion, where he was the Player of the Year for 2004–05. He was not always a regular in the side however, and spent time on loan at
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]  Frank Kirkwood Hallock (August 18, 1860 – April 29, 1937) was an American medical doctor and book collector. He was born in Oyster Bay, Long Island, on August 18, 1860. Hallock received a Bachelor of Arts in 1882 and a Master of Arts in 1885, both from Wesleyan University; and a MD from the College of Physicians at Wesleyan in 1885. He was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He studied neurology in Germany for two years. He was medical director at Cromwell Hall from 1890 until his death. He was also director and president of the Cromwell Savings Bank. Hallock was a trustee of Wesleyan University from 1917 to 1937. He died in Cromwell, Connecticut on April 29, 1937.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]   Merrill Greene Wheelock (1822&ndash;1866) was an artist and architect in Boston, Massachusetts in the 19th century. He served in the Massachusetts infantry in the American Civil War.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]  Nathan Mullock Hallock (August 23, 1844 - March 21, 1903) was a Union Army soldier in the American Civil War who received the U.S. military's highest decoration, the Medal of Honor. Hallock was born in Mount Hope, New York on August 23, 1844. He was awarded the Medal of Honor, for extraordinary heroism shown on June 15, 1863, while serving as a Private with Company K, 124th New York Volunteer Infantry Regiment, at Bristoe Station, Virginia. His Medal of Honor was issued on September 10, 1897. Hallock died at the age of 58, on March 21, 1903 and was buried at Hillside Cemetery in Middletown, Orange County, New York.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP]
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP] James Oliver Curwood  James Oliver Curwood (June 12, 1878 – August 13, 1927) was an American action-adventure writer and conservationist. His books were often based on adventures set in the Hudson Bay area, the Yukon or Alaska and ranked among the top-ten best sellers in the United States in the early and mid 1920s, according to "Publishers Weekly." At least one hundred and eighty motion pictures have been based on or directly inspired by his novels and short stories; one was produced in three versions from 1919 to 1953. At the time of his death, Curwood was the highest paid (per word) author in the world. He built Curwood Castle as a place to greet guests and as a writing studio in his hometown of Owosso, Michigan. The castle was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and is now operated by the city as a museum. The city commemorates him with an annual Curwood Festival.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP] Hans Wallach  Hans Wallach (November 28, 1904 – February 5, 1998) was a German-American experimental psychologist whose research focused on perception and learning. Although he was trained in the Gestalt psychology tradition, much of his later work explored the adaptability of perceptual systems based on the perceiver's experience, whereas most Gestalt theorists emphasized inherent qualities of stimuli and downplayed the role of experience. Wallach's studies of achromatic surface color laid the groundwork for subsequent theories of lightness constancy, and his work on sound localization elucidated the perceptual processing that underlies stereophonic sound. He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, a Guggenheim Fellow, and recipient of the Howard Crosby Warren Medal of the Society of Experimental Psychologists.
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP] The Cold Deck (film)  The Cold Deck is a 1917 American silent Western film directed by and starring William S. Hart.  An incomplete copy of the film is at the Library of Congress.<ref name=LOC/>
What is Edwin Wallock's occupation? [SEP] John Wallach  John Paul Wallach, (January 18, 1943 – July 10, 2002) born in New York City, was an American journalist, and author. He served as foreign editor and diplomatic correspondent for "Hearst newspapers" for nearly 30-years, traveling to more than 70 countries with five different Presidents, Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard Nixon, Gerald Ford, Jimmy Carter, and Ronald Reagan.  After the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, Wallach founded Seeds of Peace, an international summer camp that brings children together from all over the world who are dealing with war and conflict. After the September 11 attacks, Wallach hosted a five-day conference that brought visitors and representatives from all over the world to support the prevention of terrorism.  Wallach was the son of German Jews, Paul and Edith Wallach, who escaped Nazi Germany in 1941, after the government took possession of their family's clothing factory. Wallach died of lung cancer in New York City; he was survived by his wife, Janet, and two sons.<ref name=":0" />
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP]  Matthew McKay (6 October 1858 – 14 February 1937) was a Liberal party member of the House of Commons of Canada. He was born in West Gwillimbury Township, Ontario and became a dentist, dental surgeon and schoolteacher. McKay attended high school at Bradford, Whitby Collegiate Institute, Normal School in Toronto and Queen's University in Kingston (Bachelor of Arts) and the Royal College of Dental Surgeons in Toronto. McKay was a councillor of Pembroke, Ontario for five years and once served as the community's mayor. He was first elected to Parliament at the Renfrew North riding in the 1921 general election. After serving one term, he was defeated by Ira Delbert Cotnam of the Conservative party in the 1925 election. After unsuccessful attempts to unseat Cotnam in 1926 and 1930, McKay returned to the House of Commons by defeating Cotnam in the 1935 election. McKay died at an Ottawa hospital on 14 February 1937 from influenza and pneumonia before completing his term in the 18th Canadian Parliament. He was survived by a wife, two daughters and a son.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP]  Matt McKay (born 21 January 1981) is an English footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Chester City. McKay joined Everton from Chester on transfer deadline day on 26 March 1998. He did not make any appearances for the Everton first team and was forced to retire at the early age of 21 due to injury.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] Acting roles
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP]  Ben McKay (born 24 December 1997) is a professional Australian rules footballer playing for the North Melbourne Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL).
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP]  McKay was born in Bury, Lancashire. He has a sister, Karen. His mother, Lynn, worked as a hairdresser, and his father, Stuart, was a railway worker. He studied piano as a youth, and performed the Rachmaninoff Piano Concerto No. 3 at age 21. McKay subsequently halted his concert career and enrolled at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art to study acting.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] Chris McKay  Christopher McKay, also known as Chris Taylor (born November 11, 1973), is an American filmmaker. He is best known for directing and editing three seasons of "Robot Chicken" and two seasons of "Moral Orel". He made his feature directorial debut with "The Lego Batman Movie" (2017). He directed the film "The Tomorrow War" (2021), and is attached to direct "Renfield". Section::::Early life and education. McKay was born in Winter Park, Florida, but spent most of his childhood in Chicago, Illinois. Growing up, McKay was inspired by Alfred Hitchcock films and decided to pursue film. He shot his earliest work on his parents' Super 8 film camera. McKay attended Southern Illinois University for two years as a film student, and completed his degree at Columbia College Chicago. While studying in Chicago, McKay attended his first film shoot for the 1989 comedy "Uncle Buck".<ref name="YDJ" />
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] Luke Perry  Coy Luther "Luke" Perry III (October 11, 1966 – March 4, 2019) was an American actor. He became a teen idol for playing Dylan McKay on the Fox television series "Beverly Hills, 90210" from 1990 to 1995, and again from 1998 to 2000. He also starred as Fred Andrews on the CW series "Riverdale." He had guest roles on notable shows such as "Criminal Minds", "", "The Simpsons", and "Will & Grace", and also starred in several films, including "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" (1992), "8 Seconds" (1994), "The Fifth Element" (1997), and "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" (2019), his final feature performance.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] List of Beverly Hills, 90210 characters  The following is a list of characters from "Beverly Hills, 90210", an American drama series which aired from October 4, 1990, to May 17, 2000, on the Fox television network, before entering syndication. It is the first show of the "Beverly Hills, 90210" franchise.  Throughout its decade-long run, the series had substantial cast changes.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] Will Ferrell  John William Ferrell (; born July 16, 1967) is an American actor, comedian, and producer. He first established himself in the mid-1990s as a cast member on the NBC sketch comedy show "Saturday Night Live", where he performed from 1995 to 2002, and has subsequently starred in comedy films such as "Elf" (2003), "" (2004), "Kicking & Screaming" (2005), "" (2006), "Semi-Pro" (2008), "Step Brothers" (2008), and "Land of the Lost" (2009). He founded the comedy website Funny or Die in 2007 with his writing partner Adam McKay. Other notable film roles include "The Other Guys" (2010), "The Campaign" (2012), "Get Hard" (2015), "Holmes & Watson" (2018), and the animated films "Curious George" (2006), "Megamind" (2010) and "The Lego Movie" film franchise (2014-2019).  Ferrell is considered a member of the "Frat Pack", a generation of leading Hollywood comic actors who emerged in the late 1990s and the 2000s, including Jack Black, Ben Stiller, Steve Carell, Vince Vaughn, Paul Rudd, and brothers Owen and Luke Wilson. He received an Emmy Award nomination for his work on "Saturday Night Live", and three Golden Globe Award nominations for acting in "The Producers" (2005) and "Stranger than Fiction" (2006) and for producing "Vice" (2018). He was also named the best comedian of 2015 in the British "GQ" Men of the Year awards. Ferrell received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on March 24, 2015.
What is Matthew McKay's occupation? [SEP] Dylan McKay  Dylan Michael McKay, played by Luke Perry, is a fictional character from the television series, "Beverly Hills, 90210".
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]  Dominick Bellizzi (c. 1912 – 17 May 1934) was an American jockey who died at age 21 as a result of a horse racing accident. He was known as "The Duke". Bellizzi was born in New York to Albanian immigrants Samuel and Teresa Bellizzi. An up-and-coming young jockey in Thoroughbred racing, during 1933 Bellizzi rode to victory in the Futurity at Chicago's Arlington Park for Charles T. Fisher's Dixiana Farm. Competing on the New York circuit, he won the Adirondack Stakes and for the prominent Brookmeade Stable, owned by heiress Isabel Dodge Sloane, he captured both the Toboggan Handicap and the Whitney Handicap. In 1934, Bellizzi rode Brookmeade's colt High Quest to victory in the Wood Memorial Stakes, an important prep race for the Kentucky Derby. However, trainer Robert A. Smith opted to run the stable's Florida Derby winner
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]  Cariello obtained a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Parkside in 1992. As a civilian he works at a paving and construction manufacturer in Racine, Wisconsin.
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP] Domenico Bellizzi (1918–1989), Albanian poet ; Dominick Bellizzi (c. undefined 1912–1934), American jockey ; Mario Bellizzi (born 1957), Italian poet Bellizzi is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]  Odelvis Dominico Speek (born May 6, 1977) is a male volleyball player from Cuba, who plays as a middle-blocker for the Men's National Team. He became Best Blocker at the first 2008 Olympic Qualification Tournament in Düsseldorf, where Cuba ended up in second place and missed qualification for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, PR China.
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]  Vincent Fantauzzo (born 1977, Manchester, England), is a Melbourne-based Australian portrait artist known for his award winning portraits of Heath Ledger, Brandon Walters, Matt Moran, Emma Hack, Baz Luhrmann, Asher Keddie and his son Luca. He has won the Doug Moran National Portrait Prize twice, the Archibald Packing Room Prize, and the Archibald People's Choice Award four times.
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP] Dominick Bellizzi  Dominick Bellizzi ( – 17 May 1934) was an American jockey who died at age 21 as a result of a horse racing accident. He was known as "The Duke".  Bellizzi was born in New York to Albanian immigrants Samuel and Teresa Bellizzi. An up-and-coming young jockey in Thoroughbred racing, during 1933 Bellizzi rode to victory in the Futurity at Chicago's Arlington Park for Charles T. Fisher's Dixiana Farm. Competing on the New York circuit, he won the Adirondack Stakes and for the prominent Brookmeade Stable, owned by heiress Isabel Dodge Sloane, he captured both the Toboggan Handicap and the Whitney Handicap.  In 1934, Bellizzi rode Brookmeade's colt High Quest to victory in the Wood Memorial Stakes, an important prep race for the Kentucky Derby. However, trainer Robert A. Smith opted to run the stable's Florida Derby winner Time Clock in the Derby and under Bellizzi, finished seventh.  A week after the Kentucky Derby, Bellizzi was back in New York where he rode Brookmeade's Psychic Bid in the Youthful Stakes at Jamaica Race Course. As the field turned for home, the promising but still immature two-year-old colt veered wide and when Bellizzi attempted to guide him back in, the bit slipped in the horse's mouth. The motion caused the young jockey to lose his balance and he was thrown from his mount into the path of several onrushing horses. Severely injured, Bellizzi was rushed to Marymount Hospital in Jamaica, Queens. He underwent surgery for his injuries, which included a broken spine and damage to his intestines, and died five days later.<ref name="nytobit"/>  Bellizzi, whose coffin was carried by 10 other jockeys as pallbearers, was buried in his jockey uniform.
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP] 1933 Kentucky Derby  The 1933 Kentucky Derby was the 59th running of the Kentucky Derby. The race took place on May 6, 1933.  The first two finishers of the race were Brokers Tip, ridden by Don Meade, and Head Play, ridden by Herb Fisher. Head Play led early, but Brokers Tip went through an opening on the inside to pull even. As the horses ran side-by-side down the stretch, their jockeys grabbed and whipped each other, and the race became known as the "fighting finish." The racing stewards declared Brokers Tip the winner by a nose. It was the only victory of his career.  Meade and Fisher later fought in the jockey's room; both were suspended for 30 days for their actions during the race. Fisher claimed that Head Play had won and that Brokers Tip should have been disqualified. Meade, when interviewed 50 years later, said, "I couldn't push him away from me because he had ahold of me, so I had to get ahold of him. So from there down to the wire, that's what it was - grab and grab and grab."<ref name="Courier-journal.com"/>
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Dominick Bellizzi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]  Ole Krarup (17 March 1935 &ndash; 7 October 2017) was a Danish EU politician and former professor of law at the University of Copenhagen.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]  Krarup died on 7 October 2017 at the age of 82.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]  From 1994 through 2006 he was Member of the European Parliament with the Folkebevægelsen mod EU (People's Movement against the EU), Member of the Bureau of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left and sat onthe European Parliament's Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs and its Committee on Budgetary Control. Krarup was a substitute for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and a member of the Delegation for relations with South Africa. Krarup resigned as an MEP on 1 January 2007 due to medical consequences after a traffic accident while riding his bicycle in Strasbourg in 2006. He was succeeded by MEP Søren Bo Søndergaard.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]  Krarup was born in Grenaa, to vicar Vilhelm Krarup and Bodil Marie Krarup (née Langballe). He is married to Anette Elisabeth (née Lund Steen), with whom he has four children, one of whom, Marie, has also entered politics. He is the grandson of Alfred Krarup and cousin of Jesper Langballe and Ole Krarup. Krarup graduated from Christianshavns Gymnasium in 1957 and cand.theol. in 1965. He has been vicar in Seem and resident curate at Ribe Cathedral from 1965 to 2005 and ward chairman from 1965. He was director of Studenterkredsen from 1961 to 1963. From 2000 to 2001 he represented his party on the board of DR. He was from 1965 co-publisher of Tidehverv, and editor from 1984. In October 2000 he was listed as the Danish People's Party candidate in Sønderborg and was elected to parliament for the Sønderjylland constituency on 20 November 2001. Krarup has an extensive writing career behind him, as he from 1960 to 2001 published 26 books. Especially through his role in Tidehverv and as MP for the Danish People's Party, he has had great influence on modern Danish theology and modern Danish national conservative politics.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]  Lenny Ibizarre (born Lennart Krarup), is a Danish producer and musician from Copenhagen. He is known for his work as a DJ and record producer in Ibiza.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP] Agner Krarup Erlang  Agner Krarup Erlang (1 January 1878 – 3 February 1929) was a Danish mathematician, statistician and engineer, who invented the fields of traffic engineering and queueing theory.  By the time of his relatively early death at the age of 51, Erlang had created the field of telephone networks analysis. His early work in scrutinizing the use of local, exchange and trunk telephone line usage in a small community to understand the theoretical requirements of an efficient network led to the creation of the Erlang formula, which became a foundational element of modern telecommunication network studies.
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP] Søren Krarup  Søren Krarup (born 3 December 1937) is a Danish pastor, writer, and politician, who was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the Danish People's Party from 2001 to 2011.  Krarup is a significant and influential critic from the Danish national conservative movement, as well as the theological movement "Tidehverv". He has written several books about Christianity, history and politics, and is regarded by both his supporters and many of his opponents as a great intellectual capacity. He has been regarded as the main ideologue of the Danish People's Party, although he rejects the particular term himself, as he regards "love for the fatherland" not to be an ideology or "-ism", but rather a fundamental precondition for one's life. He is a noted critic of Cultural Radicalism (Danish cultural relativist movement), Marxism and official Danish social policy, EU policy and immigration and refugee policy.  He has, like a number of other prominent Danish politicians from the Danish People's Party, been a member of "Den Danske Forening", but along with party members Jesper Langballe and Søren Espersen resigned from the association in 2002 after it had publicly compared Islam with the plague. In 2007, while he was still not a member of the association, he however stated in a speech at its jubilee that he continued to hold its magazine "with great pleasure", and said he regarded the association as "the freedom fighters of our time".<ref name="Hoffmann"/>
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ole Krarup's occupation? [SEP] Sønderborg and was elected to parliament for the Sønderjylland constituency on 20 November 2001. Krarup has an extensive writing career behind him, as he from 1960 to 2001 published 26 books. Especially through his role in "Tidehverv" and as MP for the Danish People's Party, he has had great influence on modern Danish theology and modern Danish national conservative politics. Søren Krarup Søren Krarup (born 3 December 1937) is a Danish pastor, writer, and politician, who was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the Danish People's Party from 2001 to 2011. Krarup is a significant and influential critic from the
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]  Eduardo 'Edu' Alonso Álvarez (born 30 May 1974) is a Spanish retired footballer who played as a right midfielder. He spent the better part of his career with Alavés after starting out at Athletic Bilbao, playing 180 competitive matches for the former club. Overall, he made more than 200 appearances in both La Liga and Segunda División.
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]  Antonio Álvarez Alonso (11 March 1867 - 22 June 1903) was a Spanish pianist and composer. He is best known for his Pasodoble Suspiros de España.
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]  Alonso is an international model and assistant manager with a license in business administration. He has high ambitions to be an important businessman who can benefit the national economy holding a business administration college degree. He is also an enthusiastic sportsman who practices yoga and meditation, as well as gymnastics, acrobatics and swimming. Alonso started modeling commercials at the age of 4 through 12, then 19 shooting photos for Levi's Jeans. Alonso speaks Spanish, French and English. He works as a print and runway model.
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP] José Antonio Alvarez (born 1960), Spanish corporate executive ; José Antonio Attolini Lack (1931–2012), Mexican architect ; José Antonio Fernández Carbajal (born 1954), Mexican corporate executive ; Jose Antonio Ortega Bonet (1929–2009), Cuban-American entrepreneur and businessman ; José Antonio Sosa (born 1957), Spanish architect and researcher, member of the Royal Spanish Academy
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]  Born in Marchena, Seville, and a product of hometown Sevilla FC's youth system, Álvarez made his La Liga debut during the 1975–76 season, scoring once in eight games as the team finished in 11th position. In the following decade he would be more often than not an undisputed starter for the Andalusians, eventually playing 370 matches all competitions comprised. At the end of the 1987–88 campaign, still with Sevilla in the top division, the 33-year-old Álvarez – having made just 17 league appearances – opted to move on, and signed with neighbouring CD Málaga. In summer 1991 he joined another club in the region, Segunda División B's Granada CF, eventually retiring at the age of 40.
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP] Tony A. Da Wizard  Tony Alvarez, known as DJ Tony A. Da Wizard (TT Wizard") is an American DJ/producer and film director. He is best known for creating "The Roadium Mixtapes" with Dr. Dre and Steve Yano at the Roadium Swap Meet in Gardena, California as well as producing and DJing for the rapper Hi-C featuring Tony A. on the album titled "Skanless".
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP] Fernando Alonso  Fernando Alonso Díaz (; born 29 July 1981) is a Spanish racing driver currently competing for Aston Martin in Formula One. He won the series' World Drivers' Championship in and with Renault, and has also driven for McLaren, Ferrari, and Minardi. With Toyota, Alonso won the 24 Hours of Le Mans twice, in and , and the FIA World Endurance Championship in 2018–19. He also won the 24 Hours of Daytona with Wayne Taylor Racing in 2019.  Born in Oviedo, Asturias to a working-class family, Alonso began kart racing at the age of three and achieved success in local, national, and world championships. He progressed to car racing at the age of 17, winning the Euro Open by Nissan in 1999 and was fourth in the International Formula 3000 Championship of 2000. He debuted in Formula One with Minardi in before joining Renault as a test driver for . Promoted to a race seat in , Alonso won two drivers' championships in 2005 and 2006, becoming the youngest pole-sitter, youngest race winner, youngest world champion, and youngest two-time champion in the sport's history at the time. After finishing just one point behind eventual champion Kimi Räikkönen with McLaren in , he returned to Renault for and and won two races in the former year for fifth overall. Alonso drove for Ferrari from to , finishing runner-up to Sebastian Vettel in 2010, , and with the title battles in 2010 and 2012 going down to the last race of the season. A second stint with McLaren from to resulted in no further success. After a two-year sabbatical, Alonso returned to Formula One in with Alpine. At the 2021 Qatar Grand Prix, Alonso scored his first podium in seven years. At the 2022 Singapore Grand Prix, he broke the record for most starts in Formula One.  At the time of his sabbatical, Alonso had won 32 Grands Prix, 22 pole positions, and 1,899 points from 311 starts. He is currently the only Spanish Formula One driver to have won the World Championship. Alonso won the 2001 Race of Champions Nations Cup with the rally driver Jesús Puras and the motorcyclist Rubén Xaus for Team Spain and thrice entered the Indianapolis 500 in 2017, 2019 and 2020. He has been awarded the Prince of Asturias Award for Sports, the Premios Nacionales del Deporte Sportsman of the Year Award and the Gold Medal of the Royal Order of Sports Merit and has twice been inducted into the FIA Hall of Fame. Alonso runs an esports and junior racing team and is a UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador.
What is Antonio Álvarez Alonso's occupation? [SEP]
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP]  Boutheina Jabnoun Marai (Tunisian Arabic: بثينة جبنون مرعي) is a Tunisian journalist and magazine publisher. She is the co-owner and the editor-in-chief of Bouthaina magazine. She currently resides in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates.
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] Boutheina Jabnoun Marai, Tunisian journalist ; Bouthaina Shaaban, Syrian politician ; Bouthayna Shaya, Syrian actress and voice actress ; Buthaina Al-Yaqoubi, Omani athlete Boutheina (also spelled Bothayna or Buthaina; بثينة) is an Arabic given name for females. People with the name include:
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP]  Lubna Boby Jaffery  (born 2 April 1980) is a Norwegian politician for the Labour Party. Born in Norway to parents of Pakistani origin she grew up in Bergen. She took her secondary education in Åsane in 1999, and at the University of Bergen she took the cand.mag. degree in 2004 and the master's degree in 2007. She was an adviser in the Workers' Youth League in 2000, before becoming a central board member from 2000 to 2004. She had previously chaired the county branch from 1998 to 1999. Jaffery was a member of Bergen city council from 1999 to 2003 and
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP]  Mrie comes from an Alawite family from a village near Latakia. Her father is a high official in the Syrian Air Force Intelligence. Despite her family ties, she is one of a few Alawites to join the fight against the Assad regime and has been branded a traitor by her father. As rioting broke out in the initial stages of the Syrian Civil War, Loubna attended Latakia University but moved to Damascus in 2012 as Latakia was deemed to be unsafe for activists. This was due to Assad troops opening fire on civilian protestors. She later joined the Free Syrian Army (FSA) where she helped with the transport of food and medical aid, then with the smuggling of
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP]  US sanctioned Shaaban together with other five other Syrian officials. She is the author of Both Right and Left Handed: Arab Women Talk About Their Lives (1988), a book composed mostly of interviews with Syrian, Lebanese, Palestinian, and Algerian women. In this study, Shaaban invited Arab women to talk openly about their lives and the roles of women in their societies, how they feel they've changed through different times of war and crisis, and what they think the future holds for Arab women. Another of her books published in English is her study of Arab female writers Voices revealed: Arab women novelists, 1898-2000. In his article of 2012, "Failing the masses: Buthaina Shabaan and the public intellectual crisis", A. Al-Saleh described her public image like this: "The shift of Shabaan from being a feminist to serving the propaganda of the regime has damaged her integrity as an intellectual."
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] List of Tunisian women writers  This is a list of women writers who were born in Tunisia or whose writings are closely associated with that country.
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] Middle East Affairs" and the "Middle East Monitor." Her perspective is that "the Israeli occupation is not only a political issue, but indeed a mental health problem". Jabr has also been a guest of organizations supporting the Palestinian people in France, where she has been invited by local association Les amis de Jayyous, as well as national Association France-Palestine Solidarité (AFPS) and Union juive française pour la paix (UJFP). Institutions including the School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS), the Tavistock & Portman NHS Foundation Trust and the Institut de Recherche et d'Études Méditerranée Moyen-Orient (iReMMO, Paris) have had her
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] lives and the roles of women in their societies, how they feel they've changed through different times of war and crisis, and what they think the future holds for Arab women. She represents the feminist perspective of Syrian politics. Shaaban's rise within the Syrian government is due to her close friendship with Bushra Al-Assad. Sometime in the late 1980s, Shaaban also introduced Bushra to her future husband Assef Shawkat. In 2005 Shaaban was presented with "the Most Distinguished Woman in a Governmental Position" award by the Arab League. Bouthaina Shaaban Bouthaina Shaaban () (born 1953) is a Syrian politician and
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] Collection as well as many private collections around the world. She is also known for her paintings depicting the Lebanese civil war. Mouna Bassili Sehnaoui Mouna Bassili Sehnaoui (born 1945) is a Lebanese painter, writer and artist. Born in Egypt, Lebanese artist Mouna Bassili Sehnaoui attended the American University of Beirut and the University of Arizona, where she studied Fine Arts. Sehnaoui works in a variety of formats ranging from painting, writing, design and sculpture. She has had solo exhibitions in Paris, Dubai, and Beirut. Sehnaoui currently lives and works in Beirut with husband Marwan, President of the Lebanese Order
What is Boutheina Jabnoun's occupation? [SEP] Montreal, Canada. Belloulas work deals most significantly with women's issues, including cultural and religious restrictions, education, social relations, traditions, confinement, and violence. She was a founding member of the executive board of the Algerian Human Rights Foundation of the Child and Adolescent (1993-1998). Her 2000 text, "Algérie, le massacre des innocents", concerns itself with the massacre of Algerian civilians. She served two terms as a member of the Algerian Commission on Human Rights, an affiliate of the United Nations. Nassira Belloula Nassira Belloula (نصيرة بلولة) (born 13 February 1961 in Batna) is an Algerian feminist journalist and writer in French.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP]  Derek Peter Francis Wheatley QC (died 23 September 2018) was an English barrister, legal advisor and novelist. Wheatley was educated at University College, Oxford, going up to Oxford in 1944. He became a barrister and was involved with the case of Isabel Earl, who was tried at the Old Bailey for murder. As a barrister, he handled both criminal and commercial cases. Subsequently, he was a Recorder (judge) of the Crown Court and a Deputy Coroner of the Queen's Household (1959–64). Later, he joined Lloyds Bank as its Chief Legal Advisor. Wheatley wrote many articles for newspapers and legal journals. He also wrote a novel, The Silent Lady (Mona Lisa), based on his experiences as a barrister, especially the Isabel Earl case. He died on 23 September 2018 at the age of 92.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP]  Wheatley was born in the Sydney suburb of Surry Hills on 13 March 1937, the third child of Raymond and Ivy (née Newman) Wheatley, both natives of Sydney. He was educated at Maroubra Junction Junior Technical School. Upon completing his schooling, Wheatley worked as a labourer in Sydney. On 20 July 1954, aged 17, he married Edna Davis; together they would have four children. He was a keen rugby player, and he earned the nickname of "Dasher" on the field.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP]  Roland Wheatley (20 June 1924 – 27 July 2003) was an English professional footballer who played as a wing half.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP]  Oswald Stephen Wheatley (born 28 May 1935) is a former cricketer who played for Cambridge University, Warwickshire and Glamorgan, whom he captained from 1961 to 1966. Wheatley was born at Low Fell, Gateshead, County Durham. He was educated at King Edward's School, Birmingham, and Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge. A tall, fair-haired right-arm fast-medium bowler, he came to prominence for Cambridge University in 1958 when he set the record for the most wickets in the university's abbreviated season with 80 first-class wickets for under 18 each. He played in the university holidays for Warwickshire with very limited success but in 1959 joined that county full-time, taking 100 wickets in the
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP]  Barrie Wheatley (born 21 February 1938) is an English former professional footballer who played for Crewe Alexandra and Rochdale.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP] Derek Jacobi  Sir Derek George Jacobi (; born 22 October 1938) is an English actor. He has appeared in numerous Shakespearean stage productions including "Hamlet", "Much Ado About Nothing", "Macbeth", "Twelfth Night", "The Tempest", "King Lear", and "Romeo and Juliet". He has also performed in Anton Chekhov's "Uncle Vanya" and Edmond Rostand's "Cyrano de Bergerac". He was given a knighthood for his services to theatre by Queen Elizabeth II in 1994 and is a member of the Danish Order of the Dannebrog.  In addition to being a founding member of the National Theater Company as Stanley Baldwin in "The Gathering Storm" (2002), as the Master in "Doctor Who" (2007), as Stuart Bixby in the ITV comedy "Vicious" (2013–2016) and as Alan Buttershaw in "Last Tango in Halifax" (2012–2020). In 2019, he played Edward VIII, the Duke of Windsor, in the third season of the critically acclaimed Netflix series "The Crown".  Though principally a stage actor, Jacobi has appeared in a number of films, including "Othello" (1965), "The Day of the Jackal" (1973), "Henry V" (1989), "Dead Again" (1991), "Hamlet" (1996), "Gladiator" (2000), "Gosford Park" (2001), "Nanny McPhee" (2005), "The Riddle" (2007), "The King's Speech" (2010), "My Week with Marilyn" (2011), "Anonymous" (2011), "Cinderella" (2015), and "Murder on the Orient Express" (2017).  Jacobi has twice been awarded a Laurence Olivier Award, first for his performance of the eponymous hero in "Cyrano de Bergerac" in 1983 and the second for his Malvolio in "Twelfth Night" in 2009. He also received a Tony Award for his performance in "Much Ado About Nothing" in 1984. Jacobi has also received two Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or Movie for "The Tenth Man" (1988), and Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series for "Frasier" (2001). Jacobi has also earned two Screen Actors Guild Awards along with the ensemble cast for Robert Altman's "Gosford Park" (2001), and Tom Hooper's "The King's Speech" (2010).
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP] Dylan McDermott  Dylan McDermott (born Mark Anthony McDermott; October 26, 1961) is an American actor. He is known for his role as lawyer and law firm head Bobby Donnell on the legal drama series "The Practice", which earned him a Golden Globe Award for Best Performance by an Actor in a Television Series – Drama and a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series.  McDermott is also known for his roles in four seasons (first, second, eighth and ninth) of the FX horror anthology series "American Horror Story", subtitled "", "", "", and "" portraying Ben Harmon, Johnny Morgan and , respectively. He also starred as narcotics crime lord Richard Wheatley on the "" spinoff ""; Lt. Carter Shaw on the TNT series "Dark Blue"; in two short-lived CBS dramas, "Hostages" and "Stalker"; and in the 1994 remake of the film "Miracle on 34th Street". In 2022, he joined "" as the new lead, replacing the departing Julian McMahon.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP] Glenn Wheatley  Glenn Dawson Wheatley (23 January 1948 – 1 February 2022) was an Australian musician, talent manager and tour promoter.
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP] Lee Thompson Young  Lee Thompson Young (February 1, 1984 – August 19, 2013) was an American actor who began his career as a teenager, playing the titular character on the Disney Channel television series "The Famous Jett Jackson" (1998–2001). As an adult, major roles included playing Chris Comer in the movie "Friday Night Lights" (2004) and Boston police detective Barry Frost on the TNT police drama series "Rizzoli & Isles" (2010–14).
What is Derek Wheatley's occupation? [SEP] Stephen Merchant  Stephen James Merchant (born 24 November 1974) is an English comedian, actor, director, presenter and writer.  Alongside Ricky Gervais, Merchant was the co-writer and co-director of the British TV comedy series "The Office" (2001–2003), and co-writer, co-director, and co-star of both "Extras" (2005–2007) and "Life's Too Short" (2011–2013). With Gervais and Karl Pilkington, he hosted "The Ricky Gervais Show" in its radio, podcast, audiobook, and television formats; the radio version won a bronze Sony Award. He also provided the voice of the robotic "Intelligence Dampening Sphere" Wheatley in the 2011 video game "Portal 2". Merchant co-developed the Sky1 travel series "An Idiot Abroad" (2010–2012) and co-created "Lip Sync Battle" (2015–present).  Merchant has performed as a stand-up comedian, which led to him writing and starring in the HBO series "Hello Ladies" (2013–2014), based on his stand-up material. He starred in his first play, Richard Bean's "The Mentalists", at London's Wyndham's Theatre in 2015. He wrote and directed Fighting with My Family in 2019, and in 2021 he starred in, co-wrote, co-produced, and co-directed the 12-part comedy crime series "The Outlaws". He also appeared as the mutant Caliban in the superhero film "Logan" (2017), and as serial killer Stephen Port in the 2022 television drama "Four Lives". He has received numerous accolades, including two Golden Globe Awards, three BAFTA Awards, a Primetime Emmy Award, and four British Comedy Awards.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]  Henry W. Barnett (January 9, 1927 – May 11, 1994) was an American politician who served in the New York State Assembly from the 89th district from 1983 to 1992.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]  Charles Barnett (September 23, 1954 – March 16, 1996) was an American comedian and actor.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]  William Arnold Barnett (born October 30, 1941) is an American economist, whose current work is in the fields of chaos, bifurcation, and nonlinear dynamics in socioeconomic contexts, econometric modeling of consumption and production, and the study of the aggregation problem and the challenges of measurement in economics.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]  Oliver Wesley Barnett (born April 9, 1966, in Louisville, Kentucky) is a former American football defensive lineman in the National Football League who played for the Atlanta Falcons, Buffalo Bills, and San Francisco 49ers.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]  Homer Garner Barnett (1906 in Bisbee, Arizona – May 9, 1985) was an American anthropologist, thinker, fieldworker, and teacher.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP] Herman A. Barnett  Dr. Herman Aladdin Barnett, lll (January 22, 1926 – May 27, 1973) was an African-American fighter pilot, surgeon and anesthesiologist. He became the first African-American graduate from the University of Texas Medical School in 1953.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP] Ferdinand Lee Barnett (Chicago)  Ferdinand Lee Barnett (February 18, 1852 – March 11, 1936) was an American journalist, lawyer, and civil rights activist in Chicago, Illinois, beginning in the late Reconstruction era.  Born in Nashville, Tennessee, as a child he fled with his family to Windsor, Ontario, Canada, just before the American Civil War. After the war, they settled in Chicago, where Barnett graduated from high school, and then obtained his law degree from what is today Northwestern University School of Law. He was a founding editor of the African-American oriented "The Chicago Conservator" monthly in 1878. The third black person to be admitted to the practice of law in Illinois, he also became a successful lawyer.  In 1895, Barnett married Ida B. Wells, a journalist and anti-lynching activist. In 1896, Barnett became Illinois' first black assistant state's attorney. He was active in anti-lynching and civil rights causes and was called "one of the foremost citizens Chicago has ever had" by the "Chicago Defender".
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP]
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP] Herman Kemna  Herman Kemna (c. 1858 – June 7, 1937) was an American architect who designed many buildings in the state of Montana.
What is Herman A. Barnett's occupation? [SEP] Norman Mailer  Nachem Malech Mailer (January 31, 1923 – November 10, 2007), known by his pen name Norman Kingsley Mailer, was an American novelist, journalist, essayist, playwright, activist, filmmaker and actor. In a career spanning over six decades, Mailer had 11 best-selling books, at least one in each of the seven decades after World War II.  His novel "The Naked and the Dead" was published in 1948 and brought him early renown. His 1968 nonfiction novel "Armies of the Night" won the Pulitzer Prize for non-fiction as well as the National Book Award. Among his best-known works is "The Executioner's Song", the 1979 winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction.  Mailer is considered an innovator of "creative non-fiction" or "New Journalism", along with Truman Capote, Joan Didion, Hunter S. Thompson, and Tom Wolfe, a genre which uses the style and devices of literary fiction in factual journalism. He was a cultural commentator and critic, expressing his views through his novels, journalism, frequent press appearances and essays, the most famous and reprinted of which is "The White Negro". In 1955, he and three others founded "The Village Voice", an arts and politics-oriented weekly newspaper distributed in Greenwich Village.  In 1960, Mailer was convicted of assault and served a three-year probation after he stabbed his wife Adele Morales with a penknife, nearly killing her. In 1969, he ran an unsuccessful campaign to become the mayor of New York. Mailer was married six times and had nine children.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]  Modou Dia (born 27 March 1950) is a Senegalese politician and former diplomat. Dia represented Senegal in Saudi Arabia, the Soviet Union, West Germany and Austria. He also was the Senegalese permanent representative to the Organisation of the Islamic Conference. Dia was a candidate in the February 2007 presidential election, placing last out of 15 candidates with about 0.13% of the vote. Dia attended the Institut catholique d'arts et métiers in Lille.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]  Born in Sanyang, he has played club football for Real de Banjul, Niarry Tally, Linguère and El-Kanemi Warriors. He re-joined Linguère in October 2017 for pre-season training, before signing for Nigerian club El-Kanemi Warriors in November 2017. He made his debut for the club in the Nigerian Professional Football League in March 2018.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]  Modou Diagne (born 3 January 1994) is a Senegalese professional footballer who plays for Cypriot club Olympiakos Nicosia. As a youth, he was capped for the France U20 team, but switched to Senegal U23 team for the 2015 Africa U-23 Cup of Nations. He also holds French citizenship.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]  He is the product of Superstars Academy. He then spent two years in Israel with Hapoel Ramat Gan debuting in the Liga Leumit. He played back half year before joining Serbian SuperLiga side Inđija where he played the second half of the 2020-21 season. Having the club ended relegated Jobe was released in Summer 2021.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP] Modou Bamba Gaye, Gambian politician ; Modou Barrow (born 1992), Gambian football player ; Kabba-Modou Cham (born 1992), Belgian-born Gambian football player ; Modou Dia (born 1950), Senegalese politician and diplomat ; Modou Diagne (born 1994), Senegalese football player ; Modou Jadama (born 1994), American association football player of Gambian descent ; Modou Jagne (born 1983), Gambian association football player ; Pa Modou Jagne (born 1989), Gambian association football player ; Pa-Modou Kah (born 1980), Norwegian football coach and former player ; Modou Kouta, Chadian football player and manager ; Modou Sady Diagne (born 1954), Senegalese basketball player ; Modou Sougou (born 1984), Senegalese football player ; Modou Sowe (born 1963), Gambian football referee ; Modou Tall (born 1953), Senegalese basketball player Modou is an African masculine given name that may refer to
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP] Senegal  Senegal, officially the Republic of Senegal, is a country in West Africa, on the Atlantic Ocean coastline. Senegal is bordered by Mauritania to the north, Mali to the east, Guinea to the southeast and Guinea-Bissau to the southwest. Senegal nearly surrounds the Gambia, a country occupying a narrow sliver of land along the banks of the Gambia River, which separates Senegal's southern region of Casamance from the rest of the country. Senegal also shares a maritime border with Cape Verde. Senegal's economic and political capital is Dakar.  Senegal is notably the westernmost country in the mainland of the Old World, or Afro-Eurasia. It owes its name to the Senegal River, which borders it to the east and north. The climate is typically Sahelian, though there is a rainy season. Senegal covers a land area of almost and has a population of around /1e6 round 0 million. The state is a unitary presidential republic; since the country's foundation in 1960, it has been recognized as one of the most stable countries on the African continent.  The state was formed as part of the independence of French West Africa from French colonial rule. Because of this history, French is the official language, but it is understood only by a minority of the population. Over 30 languages are spoken in Senegal, and Wolof is the most widely spoken one, with 80% of the population speaking it as a first or second language, acting as Senegal's lingua franca alongside French. Like other post-colonial African states, the country includes a wide mix of ethnic and linguistic communities, with the largest being the Wolof, Fula, and Serer people. Senegalese people are predominantly Muslim.  Senegal is classified as a heavily indebted poor country, with relatively low HDI ranked 170th in the Human Development index. Most of the population is on the coast and works in agriculture or other food industries; other major industries include mining, tourism, and services. The country does not have notable natural resources, but the basis of its development lies in education, where almost half the state's budget is spent. Senegal is a member state of the African Union, the United Nations, the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), Organisation internationale de la Francophonie, and the Community of Sahel-Saharan States. Internationally, Senegal is best known in the sporting world for the Paris-Dakar Rally.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP] Papa Bouba Diop  Papa Bouba Diop (28 January 197829 November 2020) was a Senegalese professional footballer. His preferred position was defensive midfield but he could also play as a centre back, where he previously played at Lens. Diop was considered a strong and aggressive player. His playing style and ability drew comparisons to Patrick Vieira.  Diop spent much of his career in England, where fans nicknamed him "The Wardrobe" for his stature.<ref name=kemble/> He played for Fulham and Portsmouth in the Premier League, and won the FA Cup with the latter club in 2008. He also played top-flight football in Switzerland for Neuchâtel Xamax and Grasshopper, in France for Lens and in Greece for AEK Athens.  Diop's second of a total of 11 international goals for Senegal came in a 1–0 victory over then-world champions France in the opening match of the 2002 FIFA World Cup, in Senegal's first match at the FIFA World Cup. He also played at four Africa Cup of Nations tournaments, finishing as runners-up in 2002.
What is Modou Dia's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP]  Jon Eikemo (born 30 November 1939 in Åsane, Norway) is a Norwegian actor. He debuted on stage in 1961. He made his film debut in 1968, with the movie De ukjentes marked ('The Market of the Unknown'). Eikemo has been a minor political candidate for the Norwegian Centre Party.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] Jon Eikemo (born 1939), Norwegian actor ; Olve Eikemo (born 1973), Norwegian musician Eikemo is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP]  Jon Ewo  ( born 29 June 1957) is a Norwegian novelist, short story writer, crime fiction writer and children's writer. He was born in Oslo and educated as librarian. He made his literary debut in 1986 with the short story collection Det sies at oktober er en fin måned. His crime novels include Torpedo (1996), ''Hevn. Torpedo II (1997) and Gissel. Torpedo III'' (1998). He received the Brage Prize in 2007, for the biography Fortellingen om et mulig drap (jointly with illustrator Bjørn Ousland.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP]  Marit Eikemo (born 1971) is a Norwegian essayist, novelist, journalist and magazine editor. Eikemo was born in Odda. She edited the book Her, no: Møte med unge menneske in 1999, and contributed to the essay collection Synd.no from 2001. Her first novel was Mellom oss sagt from 2006. In 2008 she published the essay collection Samtidsruinar, and in 2009 the novel Arbeid pågår. She was awarded the Nynorsk Literature Prize for the novel Samtale ventar in 2011. Eikemo was co-editor of the cultural and political magazine Syn og Segn from 2003 to 2006, jointly with Hilde Sandvik.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP]  Olav Eikeland (born 10 October 1955) is a Norwegian philosopher and working life researcher. Since 2008, he is professor of work research and research director for the Program for Research on Education and Work at Oslo Metropolitan University (formerly Oslo and Akershus University College of Applied Sciences). Since 2012, he is also vice dean of the Faculty of Education and International Studies. He was a researcher at the Work Research Institute from 1985 to 2008, and served as the institute's director 2003-2004.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] De ukjentes marked  De ukjentes marked (The Market of the Outcasts) is a Norwegian film from 1968. It was directed by Nils R. Müller, who also wrote the screenplay and edited the film. The film is based on Åge Rønning's 1966 novel "De ukjentes marked". The film premiered on November 7, 1968, at cinemas in Oslo, Kristiansand, Tønsberg, Drammen, and Ski.<ref name="Film"/>
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] Einar Schanke  Einar Leonard Schanke (19 May 1927 – 23 February 1992) was a Norwegian composer, pianist, revue writer, theatre director and theatrical producer. He wrote revues for the Edderkoppen Theatre, and later for Chat Noir, where he was also director from 1962 to 1975.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] Kurt Foss  Kurt Foss (1 January 1925 – 17 October 1991) was a Norwegian composer, singer and vaudeville artist.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] Solveig Kringlebotn  Solveig Kringlebotn () (4 June 1963), better known outside Norway as Solveig Kringelborn, is an internationally known Norwegian operatic soprano.
What is Jon Eikemo's occupation? [SEP] Orion's Belt (film)  Orion's Belt () is a 1985 Norwegian dual-language, political action thriller film, directed by Ola Solum and Tristan de Vere Cole. It is based on Jon Michelet's 1977 novel by the same name. The film follows three Svalbard-based shabby seamen, played by Helge Jordal, Sverre Anker Ousdal and Hans Ola Sørlie, who discover a Soviet bearing station. They are subsequently targets of Soviet liquidation and American interrogation in an attempt to quiet them and retain the political "status quo". The Cold War topics were a critique of the Norwegian policy of allowing a Soviet presence on Svalbard.  The film was produced by Dag Alveberg and Petter Borgli, and the script was written by Briton Richard Harris. Two versions of the film were recorded, a Norwegian cinematic film and an English-language television film. First Solum shot the Norwegian-language scenes, and then Cole shot the same scene with the actors speaking English. The entire crew and cast lived on board a ship which traveled through Svalbard and Finnmark during production. The theme music, Svalbardtema, was composed by Geir Bøhren and Bent Åserud and has become an anthem for Svalbard.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP]  Marco Antonio Ameglio Samudio (b. 1961) is a Panamanian politician and businessman. He served as the President of the National Assembly from 1991 to 1992. Ameglio has been on the Panama Canal Authority Board of Directors since March 23, 2010. He was sworn for a period of 9 years.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP]  Pietro Ameglio (born 1957) is a Uruguayan-born naturalized Mexican citizen and Gandhian civil rights and peace activist best known for his role in promoting nonviolence and creating a movement for peace and anti-militarism in Mexico. In May 2011, Ameglio helped to organize demonstrations in support of survivor and victim rights related to ongoing violence in Mexico following the death of Juan Francisco Sicilia Ortega, the son of Javier Sicilia, bringing hundreds of thousands of people together across Mexico and in 17 countries around the world. A practitioner of Gandhian methodology, Ameglio's philosophy is to tap the positive values and moral sensibilities of Mexican culture which can be marshaled to oppose war and to change the model of "Armed Peace" to a model of "Peace with Justice." This combination of practical and formal peace work has led Pietro Ameglio to be described as "one of the most important teachers and practitioners of active nonviolence in Latin America today." Pietro Ameglio has been selected as the 2014 winner of the El-Hibri Peace Education Prize, the eighth annual Laureate to be selected.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Roberto Pazzi
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Carlos Ameglio (born 1965), Uruguayan film director ; Giovanni Ameglio (1854–1921), Italian general ; Marco Ameglio (born 1961), Panamanian businessman ; Pietro Ameglio (born 1957), Uruguayan-born Mexican activist Ameglio is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP]  Marco Amleto Belelli, or Divino Otelma, (born 8 May 1949) is an Italian television personality, politician and singer.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Juan Carlos Varela  Juan Carlos Varela Rodríguez (; born 13 December 1963) is a Panamanian businessman and former politician who served as the President of Panama from 2014 to 2019.  Varela was Vice President of Panama from 2009 to 2014, and Minister of Foreign Relations from July 2009 to August 2011. He was President of the Panameñistas, the third-largest political party in Panama, from 2006 to 2016.  Varela won the 2014 presidential election with over 39% of the votes, against the Cambio Democrático Party, led by his former political partner Ricardo Martinelli, whose candidate was José Domingo Arias. He was sworn in as president on 1 July 2014.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Battle of Benghazi (1911)  The Battle of Benghazi occurred during the Italo-Turkish War when the Kingdom of Italy attacked and took possession of the major cities of the Ottoman Empire's North African Tripolitania province, now Libya. Benghazi was one of the five strategic cities captured and held by the Italians during the entire length of the war.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Mario Del Monaco  Mario Del Monaco (27 July 191516 October 1982) was an Italian operatic tenor.
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP]
What is Marco Ameglio's occupation? [SEP] Italo-Turkish War  The Italo-Turkish or Turco-Italian War (, "Tripolitanian War", , "War of Libya") was fought between the Kingdom of Italy and the Ottoman Empire from 29 September 1911, to 18 October 1912. As a result of this conflict, Italy captured the Ottoman Tripolitania Vilayet, of which the main sub-provinces were Fezzan, Cyrenaica, and Tripoli itself. These territories became the colonies of Italian Tripolitania and Cyrenaica, which would later merge into Italian Libya.  During the conflict, Italian forces also occupied the Dodecanese islands in the Aegean Sea. Italy agreed to return the Dodecanese to the Ottoman Empire in the Treaty of Ouchy in 1912. However, the vagueness of the text, combined with subsequent adverse events unfavourable to the Ottoman Empire (the outbreak of the Balkan Wars and World War I), allowed a provisional Italian administration of the islands, and Turkey eventually renounced all claims on these islands in Article 15 of the 1923 Treaty of Lausanne.  The war was a precursor of the First World War. Members of the Balkan League, sensing Ottoman weakness and motivated by incipient Balkan nationalism, attacked the Ottoman Empire in October 1912, starting the First Balkan War a few days before the end of the Italo-Turkish War.  The Italo-Turkish War saw numerous technological changes, most notably the use of airplanes in combat. On 23 October 1911, an Italian pilot, "Capitano" Carlo Piazza, flew over Turkish lines on the world's first aerial reconnaissance mission, and on 1 November, the first aerial bomb was dropped by "Sottotenente" Giulio Gavotti, on Turkish troops in Libya, from an early model of Etrich Taube aircraft. The Turks, using rifles, were the first to shoot down an airplane. Another use of new technology was a network of wireless telegraphy stations established soon after the initial landings. Guglielmo Marconi, the inventor of wireless telegraphy, came to Libya to conduct experiments with the Italian Corps of Engineers.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]  Valgerður Bjarnadóttir (born 13 January 1950) is an Icelandic politician.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]  Valgerður Þóroddsdóttir (also Vala Thorodds) is an Icelandic poet, publisher, translator and literary curator. Valgerður is the founder and director of two independent publishers of poetry and prose – Partus Press, based in the UK, and Partus forlag, based in Reykjavík, Iceland. Her first chapbook, the booklet-length poem Það sem áður var skógur (What Once Was Forest), was edited by Sjón and published in the chapbook series Meðgönguljóð in Iceland in 2015. She edited and translated from the Icelandic the selected poems of Kristín Ómarsdóttir, Waitress in Fall, which was co-published in the UK in 2018 by Carcanet Press and Partus Press.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]  Valgerður Sverrisdóttir (born 23 March 1950) is an Icelandic politician. She was a member of the Althing (Iceland's parliament) for the Progressive Party for the Northeast constituency starting in 1987 and was Chairman of the Progressive Party parliamentary group from 1995 to 1999, Minister of Industry and Commerce from 1999 to 2006, and Minister for Nordic Cooperation from 2004 to 2005. She was Minister for Foreign Affairs from 15 June 2006 to 24 May 2007. She has been a member of the Progressive Party's central committee since 1983.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]  Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir is an Icelandic politician, a member of the Icelandic parliament, and the former headmaster of Laugar Junior College. She was a member of Húsavík town council from 1986 to 1998 and served as the president of the town council from 1994 to 1998. Valgerður has been a member of the Budget Committee since 2013 and a member of the Icelandic Delegation to the Nordic Council from the same year. She has been a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 2016 and serves as deputy chairman for the Icelandic delegation.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]  Guðrún Valgerður Stefánsdóttir graduated from Iceland's Social Pedagogue School in 1976, completed special pedagogue education from the University of Oslo in 1983 and Teacher Certification from the Iceland University of Education in 1991. She completed a master's from Iceland University of Education in 1998 and a Ph.D in Disability Studies from the University of Iceland’s Faculty of Social Sciences in 2008. Before Guðrún began her academic career, she worked with disabled people, as both a social pedagogue and special teacher. She started teaching at the Social Pedagogue School of Iceland in 1989. In 1998, Iceland University of Education (now the School of Education at the University of Iceland) hired her as assistant professor. Guðrún is now a professor in disability studies in the School of Education at the University of Iceland.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP] Vilmundur Gylfason  Vilmundur Gylfason (7 August 1948 – 19 June 1983) was an Icelandic politician, historian and poet. He was the son of Gylfi Þorsteinsson Gíslason and Guðrún Vilmundardóttir.
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]
What is Valgerður Bjarnadóttir's occupation? [SEP]
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP]  Russell Newton Stokes (26 August 1903 &ndash; 6 July 1974) was an Australian politician. Born in Ivanhoe to manufacturer Henry Richmond Stokes and Emma Rowdon Wippell. He attended Melbourne Grammar School and became a manufacturer with the family badge- and medallion-making firm, Stokes & Sons, based in Brunswick. He was the managing director and chairman of the company from 1932 to 1974. Stokes also owned a 600-acre dairy and Angus property at Yarra Glen and further property at Yea. He married Margaret Black, with whom he had three children, on 16 November 1935. In 1944, he was the co-author of Political Rehabilitation in Australia, in which year he was also a foundation member of the Liberal Party. He sat on the member qualifications committee from 1954 to 1956, and in 1958 was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly as the member for Evelyn. He served until his retirement in 1973 and died in 1974 at Cairns. He is buried at Warringal Cemetery at Heidelberg.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP]  Before his career in films, Marcus worked in Architectural design and holds a master's degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Marcus also worked in rural Japan as a language instructor and translator.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP]  Robert Gordon Stokes (born 17 January 1975), an Australian politician, is the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Public Spaces in the second Berejiklian ministry since April 2019. He is a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly representing Pittwater for the Liberal Party since 2007. Stokes has previously served as the Minister for Education from January 2017 until March 2019 in the First Berejiklian ministry; the Minister for the Environment, the Minister for Heritage, the Assistant Minister for Planning, and the Minister for the Central Coast during 2014 and 2015 in the first Baird government; and the Minister for Planning from April 2015 until January 2017 in the second Baird government.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP]  after, they moved to Kansas City, Missouri, where Stokes was employed as a part-time auto mechanic. In 1947, they moved once again, to Waukegan, Illinois where he found temporary employment as a pipe and sheet metal worker. Between late 1947 and 1949, Stokes was employed as an orderly at the Chicago Veterans Administration Hospital, specifically in the Tuberculosis Sanitarium. It was during this time that he first saw the negative health effects of the city's pollution. In 1949, he left the hospital and found work at Brule Inc., an incinerator manufacturing company in Chicago. He quickly learned the process of combustion and was thought to have contributed heavily in the designs of new incinerators, but was never credited for his work. For that reason, he left to pursue his own interests.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP]  <references group=Note1 />
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP] Bill Russell  William Felton Russell (February 12, 1934 – July 31, 2022) was an American professional basketball player who played as a center for the Boston Celtics of the National Basketball Association (NBA) from 1956 to 1969. A five-time NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) and a 12-time NBA All-Star, he was the centerpiece of the Celtics dynasty that won 11 NBA championships during his 13-year career. Russell and Henri Richard of the National Hockey League are tied for the record of the most championships won by an athlete in a North American sports league. Russell is widely considered to be one of the greatest basketball players of all time. He led the San Francisco Dons to two consecutive NCAA championships in 1955 and 1956,<ref name="usf"/> and he captained the gold-medal winning U.S. national basketball team at the 1956 Summer Olympics.<ref name="nbacomsummary"/>  Despite his limitations on offense, as Russell averaged 15.1 points per game, his rebounding, defense, and leadership made him one of the dominant players of his era. Standing at tall, with a arm span, his shot-blocking and man-to-man defense were major reasons for the Celtics' dominance during his career. Russell was equally notable for his rebounding abilities, and he led the NBA in rebounds four times, had a dozen consecutive seasons of 1,000 or more rebounds, and remains second all time in both total rebounds and rebounds per game. He is one of just two NBA players (the other being prominent rival Wilt Chamberlain) to have grabbed more than 50 rebounds in a game.  Russell played in the wake of black pioneers Earl Lloyd, Chuck Cooper, and Sweetwater Clifton, and he was the first black player to achieve superstar status in the NBA. He also served a three-season (1966–69) stint as player-coach for the Celtics, becoming the first black coach in the NBA and the first to win a championship. In 2011, Barack Obama awarded Russell the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his accomplishments on the court and in the civil rights movement.  Russell was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 1975, was one of the founding inductees into the National Collegiate Basketball Hall of Fame in 2006 and was enshrined in the FIBA Hall of Fame in 2007. He was selected into the NBA 25th Anniversary Team in 1971 and the NBA 35th Anniversary Team in 1980, named as one of the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History in 1996, In 2021, he was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame a second time for his coaching career. Shortly after his death in 2022, the NBA retired Russell's #6 jersey league-wide, making him the only player in NBA history to receive the honor.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP] Kathleen Cody (actress)  Kathleen Cody (born October 30, 1954), often credited as Kathy Cody, is an American actress. She is best known for her role as the characters Hallie Stokes and Carrie Stokes, on the television series "Dark Shadows", appearing from June 1970 through April 1971. Her career in film and television lasted over 30 years.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP] Ernest John Russell  Ernest John Russell FAIA (1870–1956) was an English-born American architect in practice in St. Louis from 1900 until his death in 1956. From 1932 to 1935 he was president of the American Institute of Architects.
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP] Chase Stokes  James Alexander Chase Stokes is an American actor. He is best known for his role as John B in the Netflix teen drama series "Outer Banks".
What is Russell Stokes's occupation? [SEP] Nick Stokes  Nicholas "Nick" Stokes is a fictional character from the CBS crime drama "", portrayed by George Eads. He made his first screen appearance in the show's , broadcast on October 6, 2000, and departed the series on February 15, 2015, in "The End Game". Eads is credited in 335 episodes of the series.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP]  Jim Brown (18 December 1926 – 8 April 2014) was a former Australian rules footballer who played with Fitzroy in the Victorian Football League (VFL). In 1948 Brown moved to Tasmania and played with New Norfolk in the Tasmanian Football League. He won the William Leitch Medal, the competition Best and Fairest that year.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP]  James Birrell Brown (7 June 1939 – 18 January 2015) was a Scottish footballer, who played as a wing half in the Scottish League for Dumbarton and in the English Football League for Darlington.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP] (autobiography) ; (autobiography)
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP]  James Gary Brown (July 23, 1943 – January 31, 2020) was a politician in Ontario, Canada. He was a Progressive Conservative member of the Legislative Assembly of Ontario from 1995 to 1999 who represented the east Toronto riding of Scarborough West.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP]  James McMillan Brown (5 April 1927 – 28 May 2020) was an Australian politician who served in both houses of the Parliament of Western Australia, representing the Labor Party. He was a member of the Legislative Assembly from 1971 to 1974, and later served in the Legislative Council from 1980 to 1992.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP] Jim Brown  James Nathaniel Brown (born February 17, 1936) is a former American football player, sports analyst and actor. He played as a fullback for the Cleveland Browns of the National Football League (NFL) from 1957 through 1965. Considered to be one of the greatest running backs of all time, as well as one of the greatest players in NFL history, Brown was a Pro Bowl invitee every season he was in the league, was recognized as the AP NFL Most Valuable Player three times, and won an NFL championship with the Browns in 1964. He led the league in rushing yards in eight out of his nine seasons, and by the time he retired, he had shattered most major rushing records. In 2002, he was named by "The Sporting News" as the greatest professional football player ever.  Brown earned unanimous All-America honors playing college football at Syracuse University, where he was an all-around player for the Syracuse Orangemen football team. The team later retired his number 44 jersey, and he was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 1995. He also excelled in basketball, track and field, and lacrosse. He is also widely considered one of the greatest lacrosse players of all time, and the Premier Lacrosse League MVP Award is named in his honor.  In his professional career, Brown carried the ball 2,359 times for 12,312 rushing yards and 106 touchdowns, which were all records when he retired. He averaged 104.3 rushing yards per game, and is the only player in NFL history to average over 100 rushing yards per game for his career. His 5.2 yards per rush is third-best among running backs, behind Marion Motley and Jamaal Charles. Brown was enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1971. He was named to the NFL's 50th, 75th, and 100th Anniversary All-Time Teams, comprising the best players in NFL history. Brown was honored at the 2020 College Football Playoff National Championship as the greatest college football player of all time. His number 32 jersey is retired by the Browns. Shortly before the end of his football career, Brown became an actor, and had several leading roles throughout the 1970s.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP] Jim Brown (interpreter)  James W. Brown (born 1953) is a retired American diplomat, mainly specializing in Mandarin Chinese. More commonly known simply as “Jim” he has translated for 6 U.S presidents since Ronald Reagan to more recently Donald Trump’s visit to China in November of 2017  Brown was born in Washington D.C. as the son of a U.S. diplomat, and studied history and international relations at the Fu Jen University in Taiwan before joining Pan-American Airlines in the late 1970s. In 1980, he was hired by the U.S. Department of Defense, and joined the U.S. State Department the following year. Although admitting that he wanted to be a "generalist", the U.S. government considered his proficiency in the Chinese language to be an asset as China reopened its once-closed gate to the world at that time, and assigned Brown to multiple tenures at the U.S. Embassy in Beijing. He retired from the State Department in 2021. In 2021 Jim became a fellow at the University of San Diego’s China Center.   Brown's languages include Cantonese, French, Japanese, and Korean, but is best known for his knowledge of the Mandarin language.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP] Thiruchelvam Nihal Jim Brown  Thiruchchelvam Nihal Jim Brown (1972 – 2006) was a minority Sri Lankan Tamil, Roman Catholic parish priest who disappeared during the Sri Lankan civil war. He was active helping his parishioners during the bombing of his church in northern Sri Lanka. He went missing with Wenceslaus Vinces Vimalathas on August 20, 2006 and is presumed dead.
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jim Brown's occupation? [SEP] Jim Ed Brown  James Edward Brown (April 1, 1934 – June 11, 2015) was an American country singer-songwriter who achieved fame in the 1950s with his two sisters as a member of the Browns. He later had a successful solo career from 1965 to 1974, followed by a string of major duet hits with fellow country music vocalist Helen Cornelius, through 1981. Brown was also the host of the "Country Music Greats Radio Show", a syndicated country music program from Nashville, Tennessee.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP]  Edwin Earl Ellis (August 28, 1924 - April 2, 1989) was an American inventor and photographer.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP]  As an inventor he holds a patent for an awning support system.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP]  Ellis was born in Parkman, Maine in 1876. He earned a degree in mathematics from Wesleyan University (where he was a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity). In 1922, he received his graduate certificate in engineering (C.E.) from the University of Illinois.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP]  Edward Sylvester Ellis (April 11, 1840 &ndash; June 20, 1916) was an American author who was born in Ohio and died at Cliff Island, Maine. Ellis was a teacher, school administrator, journalist, and the author of hundreds of books and magazine articles that he produced by his name and by a number of noms de plume. Notable fiction stories by Ellis include The Steam Man of the Prairies and Seth Jones, or the Captives of the Frontier. Internationally, Edward S. Ellis is probably known best for his Deerfoot novels read widely by young boys until the 1950s.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP]  He served in the U.S. Navy from 1943 to 1949 as a photographer. During this time he participated in the landings at the Battle of Okinawa. Most notably, he was a photographer on Operation Highjump, becoming one of the first people to visually document Antarctica. The Ellis Fjord and the Ellis Glacier are named after him. After the South Pole, he went to Norfolk, and was part of the crew that commissioned the USS Coral Sea (CV-43). He was also the founder of the Ellis Trailer Park in Paducah. The land it sat on is now owned by Cardinal Lanes.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP] Edwin E. Ellis  Edwin Earl Ellis (August 28, 1924 - April 2, 1989) was an American inventor and photographer.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP] Perry Ellis  Perry Edwin Ellis (March 3, 1940 – May 30, 1986) was an American fashion designer who founded his eponymous sportswear house in the mid-1970s. Ellis' influence on the fashion industry has been called "a huge turning point" because he introduced new patterns and proportions to a market which was dominated by more traditional men's clothing.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP] Edwin E. Tozer  Edwin Ellis (Ed) Tozer (born 1943) is a British retired management and IT consultant and SF author, particularly known for his early work on business information systems in the 1970s and 1980s.
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP] Bret Easton Ellis  Bret Easton Ellis (born March 7, 1964) is an American author, screenwriter, short-story writer, and director. Ellis was first regarded as one of the so-called literary Brat Pack and is a self-proclaimed satirist whose trademark technique, as a writer, is the expression of extreme acts and opinions in an affectless style. His novels commonly share recurring characters.  When Ellis was 21, his first novel, the controversial bestseller "Less than Zero" (1985), was published by Simon & Schuster. His third novel, "American Psycho" (1991), was his most successful. Upon its release the literary establishment widely condemned it as overly violent and misogynistic. Though many petitions to ban the book saw Ellis dropped by Simon & Schuster, Ellis's novels have become increasingly metafictional. "Lunar Park" (2005), a pseudo-memoir and ghost story, received positive reviews. "Imperial Bedrooms" (2010), marketed as a sequel to "Less than Zero", continues in this vein. "The Shards" (2023) is a fictionalized memoir of Ellis's final year of high school in 1981 in Los Angeles.  Four of Ellis's works have been made into films. "Less than Zero" was adapted in 1987 as a film of the same name, but the film bore little resemblance to the novel. Mary Harron's adaptation of "American Psycho" was released in 2000. Roger Avary's adaptation of "The Rules of Attraction" was released in 2002. "The Informers", co-written by Ellis and based on his collection of short stories, was released in 2008. Ellis also wrote the screenplay for the 2013 film "The Canyons".
What is Edwin E. Ellis's occupation? [SEP] Edith Pargeter  Edith Mary Pargeter (28 September 1913 – 14 October 1995), also known by her "nom de plume" Ellis Peters, was an English author of works in many categories, especially history and historical fiction, and was also honoured for her translations of Czech classics. She is probably best known for her murder mysteries, both historical and modern, and especially for her medieval detective series The Cadfael Chronicles.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]  Muhammad Ali Luqman (6 November 1898 &ndash; 24 March 1966) was a Yemeni lawyer, writer, and journalist. He established Faṫāṫ Al-Jazīrah (فَـتَـاة الْـجَـزِيْـرَة), the first independent newspaper in Yemen.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]  Ali Moussa Al-Shawakh, (1973 –17 April 2018) known by his kunya Abu Luqman, Abu Ayyub al-Ansari or Ali al-Hamoud, was a Syrian man and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant governor of Raqqa, Syria as of July 2015. He used to be governor of Aleppo province.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]  Between 1994 and 1997, he worked for Guardian Royal Exchange Assurance, a large British insurance company where he served as a Tax/Financial Consultant dealing with life assurance, investments, inheritance tax and mortgage cases. He worked as a partner in Salfiti and Co Solicitors based in London particularly, land, trust and commercial cases. He was later engaged as an associate partner in the Jacob Rothschild Partnership.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]  Second Sergeant Usman bin Haji Muhammad Ali (18 March 1943 – 17 October 1968), also spelt Osman bin Haji Mohamed Ali, was an Indonesian marine and convicted murderer. He uses the aliases Janatin or Usman Janatin during his task of bombing the MacDonald House, which killed three people and injured 33 other people. Usman was executed alongside his accomplice Harun Said for the murders of the three deceased victims from the MacDonald House bombing.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]  Ali was born on 1 January 1956 to Israil Ali and Alifjan Bibi.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP] Muhammad Ali Luqman  Muhammad Ali Luqman (6 November 1898 – 24 March 1966) was a Yemeni lawyer, writer, and journalist. He established "Faṫāṫ Al-Jazīrah" (), the first independent newspaper in Yemen.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP] Luqman  Luqman (; also known as Luqman the Wise or Luqman al-Hakim) was a wise man after whom Surah Luqman, the 31st sura (chapter) of the Quran, was named. Luqman ( BC) is believed to have been from Nubia or from Egypt. There are many stories about Luqman in Persian, Arabic and Turkish literature, with the primary historical sources for his life being Tafsir ibn Kathir and "Stories of the Qur'an" by Ibn Kathir. While the Quran does not state whether Luqman was a prophet or not, some believe him to be a prophet and thus, add the honorific ʿAlaihis Salam (A.S.) after his name.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP] Abu Luqman  Ali Moussa Al-Shawakh, (1973 –17 April 2018) known by his kunya Abu Luqman, Abu Ayyub al-Ansari or Ali al-Hamoud, was a Syrian man and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant governor of Raqqa, Syria as of July 2015. He used to be governor of Aleppo province.
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP]
What is Muhammad Ali Luqman's occupation? [SEP] Muhammad  Muhammad (;  570 – 8 June 632 CE) was an Arab religious, social, and political leader and the founder of Islam. According to Islamic doctrine, he was a prophet divinely inspired to preach and confirm the monotheistic teachings of Adam, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets. He is believed to be the Seal of the Prophets within Islam. Muhammad united Arabia into a single Muslim polity, with the Quran as well as his teachings and practices forming the basis of Islamic religious belief.  Muhammad was born approximately 570CE in Mecca. He was the son of Abdullah ibn Abd al-Muttalib and Amina bint Wahb. His father Abdullah was the son of Quraysh tribal leader Abd al-Muttalib ibn Hashim, and he died a few months before Muhammad's birth. His mother Amina died when he was six, leaving Muhammad an orphan. He was raised under the care of his grandfather, Abd al-Muttalib, and paternal uncle, Abu Talib. In later years, he would periodically seclude himself in a mountain cave named Hira for several nights of prayer. When he was 40, Muhammad reported being visited by Gabriel in the cave and receiving his first revelation from God. In 613, Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that "God is One", that complete "submission" ("islām") to God is the right way of life ("dīn"), and that he was a prophet and messenger of God, similar to the other prophets in Islam.  Muhammad's followers were initially few in number, and experienced hostility from Meccan polytheists for 13 years. To escape ongoing persecution, he sent some of his followers to Abyssinia in 615, before he and his followers migrated from Mecca to Medina (then known as Yathrib) later in 622. This event, the "Hijra", marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, also known as the Hijri Calendar. In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina. In December 629, after eight years of intermittent fighting with Meccan tribes, Muhammad gathered an army of 10,000 Muslim converts and marched on the city of Mecca. The conquest went largely uncontested and Muhammad seized the city with little bloodshed. In 632, a few months after returning from the Farewell Pilgrimage, he fell ill and died. By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam.  The revelations (each known as "Ayah —" literally, "Sign [of God]") that Muhammad reported receiving until his death form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the verbatim "Word of God" on which the religion is based. Besides the Quran, Muhammad's teachings and practices ("sunnah"), found in the Hadith and "sira" (biography) literature, are also upheld and used as sources of Islamic law (see Sharia).
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP]  Ivo Perilli (10 April 1902 &ndash; 24 November 1994) was an Italian screenwriter. He wrote for more than 50 films between 1933 and 1977.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP]  author ; Ivo Perilli (1902–1994), Italian screenwriter ; Ivo Peters (1915–1989), British photographer ; Ivo Petrić (1931–2018), Slovenian composer ; Ivo Pinto (born 1990), Portuguese footballer ; Ivo Pitanguy (1926–2016), Brazilian plastic surgeon ; Ivo Pogorelić (born 1958), Croatian pianist ; Ivo Ringe (born 1951), German painter ; Ivo Robić (1923–2000), Croatian singer and songwriter ; Ivo Rodrigues (footballer) (born 1995), Portuguese footballer ; Ivo Rodrigues (runner) (born 1960), Brazilian marathon runner ; Ivo Ron (born 1967), Ecuadorian footballer ; Ivo Samkalden (1912–1995), Dutch politician ; Ivo Sanader (born 1953), Croatian politician ; Ivo Snijders (born 1980), Dutch rower ; Ivo Stourton (born 1982), English author ;
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP]  Achille Perilli (28 January 1927 – 16 October 2021) was an Italian painter and sculptor.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP]  Antonio A. Casilli (born 1972) is a Professor of Sociology at Télécom Paris, the school of telecommunications engineering of the Polytechnic Institute of Paris, and an Associate Researcher at the School for Advanced Studies in the Social Sciences. His research focuses on computer-mediated communication, labour, and fundamental rights. He has been a regular commentator at La Grande Table and Place de la Toile on France Culture.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP] Ivo Perilli  Ivo Perilli (10 April 1902 – 24 November 1994) was an Italian screenwriter. He wrote for more than 50 films between 1933 and 1977.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP] Five Branded Women  Five Branded Women is a 1960 Italian-American film directed by Martin Ritt (his only war film) and produced by Dino De Laurentiis. It features an international cast including Silvana Mangano, Barbara Bel Geddes, Jeanne Moreau and Vera Miles. The film is set during the Nazi occupation of Yugoslavia and was shot in Italy and Klagenfurt, Austria.`
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP] Europe '51  Europe '51 (), also known as The Greatest Love, is a 1952 Italian neorealist film directed by Roberto Rossellini, starring Ingrid Bergman and Alexander Knox. The film follows an industrialist's wife who, after the death of her young son, turns towards a rigorous humanitarianism.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP] La voce senza volto  La voce senza volto () is a 1939 Italian "white-telephones" comedy film directed by Gennaro Righelli. It is part of the tradition of "telefoni bianchi" () comedies, popular in Italy at the time.
What is Ivo Perilli's occupation? [SEP] War and Peace (1956 film)  War and Peace () is a 1956 epic historical drama film based on Leo Tolstoy's 1869 novel of the same name. It is directed and co-written by King Vidor and produced by Dino De Laurentiis and Carlo Ponti for Paramount Pictures. The film stars Audrey Hepburn as Natasha, Henry Fonda as Pierre, and Mel Ferrer as Andrei, along with Oskar Homolka, Vittorio Gassman, Herbert Lom, Jeremy Brett, John Mills and Anita Ekberg in one of her first breakthrough roles. The musical score was composed by Nino Rota and conducted by Franco Ferrara.  "War and Peace" opened on August 21, 1956 to a mixed reception, with some reviewers critical with the film truncating much of Tolstoy's novel, and the casting of 50-year-old Henry Fonda as the 20-year-old Pierre Bezukhov. It received Academy Awards nominations for Best Director, Best Cinematography (Color), and Best Costume Design (Color). It was also nominated for four Golden Globes, including Best Motion Picture – Drama and Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama (Audrey Hepburn), and won Best Foreign Film.  In February 2020, the film was shown at the 70th Berlin International Film Festival, as part of a retrospective dedicated to King Vidor's career.
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]  Rinaldo del Mel (also René del Mel, del Melle) (probably 1554 – c. 1598) was a Franco-Flemish composer of the Renaissance, mainly active in Italy, and a member of the Roman School of composition. He likely studied with Palestrina, and was a skilled and prolific composer, especially of cyclic madrigals of the type popular in Rome.
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]  Mel was born in Mechelen to an aristocratic family closely connected to the Duchy of Lorraine; his father was in charge of the financial management of the Duke's estate. In 1562, at the probable age of eight, he began study at the Cathedral of St. Rombaut, with Séverin Cornet being his principal teacher. In 1572, after finishing his schooling, he was sent to Lisbon by his family, where he may have served as maestro di cappella at the court (according to Giuseppe Baini, the 19th century writer on music, who was not always a reliable source). By 1580 he was in Rome, possibly studying with Palestrina. Records indicate he was at Chieti in 1583, and in January 1584 in Venice; in July of that year he accepted a position
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]  Rinaldo Melucci (born 26 January 1977) is an Italian politician. He is member of the Democratic Party. He was born in Taranto, Italy. He is married and has three children. Melucci was elected Mayor of Taranto on 26 June 2017.
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]  maestro di cappella at Rieti Cathedral, but was dismissed shortly thereafter for being too often absent from his duties. Between 1585 and 1591 Mel traveled widely, returning to Flanders, including Liège and Antwerp. He served briefly as maestro di cappella for the Duke of Bavaria, then in Liège, for at least a few months beginning in July 1587. He visited Venice, Rome, Magliano Capo di Sabina, and Aquila during the years 1585 to 1591 as well. Between 1591 and 1597 he was music director at the cathedral and seminary in Magliano Capo di Sabina. He disappears from the record after 1597, but a book of newly composed chansons by him, published in Antwerp that year, has suggested that he may have again returned to the land of his birth.
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]  All of Rinaldo del Mel's surviving music is vocal, and it is both sacred and secular. He was a prolific composer, and wrote both motets and madrigals, as well as some forms that blended elements of the sacred and secular, such as a collection of "spiritual canzonets". His style shows the craftsmanship of an exceptional Netherlandish musical training, as well as the influence of Palestrina, who was probably his teacher, as claimed by Baini. Mel's sacred music, as would be expected of a composer of the Roman School, is more conservative stylistically than his secular music. Since his music is yet to appear in a modern edition it has not been fully evaluated by scholars. Mel wrote several sets of cyclic madrigals, i.e. sets of madrigals which set successive stanzas of a long poem (Monteverdi's Sestina: Lagrime d'Amante al Sepolcro
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP]
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP] 1593 in music
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP] Virgin River (TV series)  Virgin River is an American romantic drama streaming television series, produced by Reel World Management, filmed in British Columbia, Canada, and based on the "Virgin River" novels by Robyn Carr. The first season premiered on Netflix on December 6, 2019.<ref name="SeriesPremiere"/> In September 2021, the series was renewed for a fourth and fifth season.<ref name="S4–S5Renewal"/> The fourth season was released on July 20, 2022.<ref name="S4Premiere"/>
What is Rinaldo del Mel's occupation? [SEP] Radamel Falcao  Radamel Falcao García Zárate (born 10 February 1986) is a Colombian professional footballer who plays as a forward for La Liga club Rayo Vallecano and often captains the Colombia national team. Nicknamed ""El Tigre"" (Spanish for "The Tiger"), he is considered one of the greatest Colombian footballers of all time.  Falcao began his professional career in the Colombian Second Division at the age of 13 at Lanceros Boyacá, before moving to the Argentine club River Plate, where he played with their youth academy from 2001 until 2005 and later won the 2007–08 Clausura tournament. In 2009, he joined Portuguese club Porto, where he won several trophies, including the UEFA Europa League and Primeira Liga double in 2011. In August 2011, Falcao moved to Spanish club Atlético Madrid for a club record €40 million. He was integral in the club's 2012 Europa League and Super Cup victories.<ref name=":10" /> Falcao was also prolific in La Liga during his time with Atlético, being the third-highest goalscorer in 2011–12 and 2012–13, both behind Lionel Messi and Cristiano Ronaldo.  Widely regarded as one of the best strikers in the world, Falcao controversially signed for newly promoted Ligue 1 side Monaco in 2013 for a club record €60 million, despite interest from top European clubs. In the second half of his debut season, an ACL injury ruled him out for six months; he went on to spend the next two seasons on loan at Premier League clubs Manchester United and Chelsea. Rejoining Monaco in the summer of 2016, he regained his best form and led them to their first Ligue 1 title in 17 years. Falcao joined Turkish club Galatasaray in 2019, before returning to La Liga in 2021 with Rayo Vallecano.   Falcao made his senior debut for Colombia in 2007, and has since earned over 100 caps and scored 36 goals, making him their all-time top scorer since breaking the previous record of 25 goals in June 2017. He represented his country at the 2011, 2015 and 2019 Copa América. Falcao missed the 2014 FIFA World Cup through injury, but made his World Cup debut at the 2018 tournament in Russia.  Falcao is Porto's all-time top goalscorer in international club competitions, set the record for most goals (17) in a European campaign in 2011, is the first player to win consecutive Europa League titles with two teams (Porto in 2011 and Atlético in 2012), and is Monaco's highest goalscorer this century (83). He was named in the FIFA FIFPro World XI in 2012, finished in fifth place for the 2012 FIFA Ballon d'Or, and was awarded the 2012 Globe Soccer Best Footballer.
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]  Annie Beustes (born 15 June 1945 in Arget) is a New Caledonian politician. She has served in the Congress of New Caledonia as a member of The Rally–UMP, and is anti-independence; she also served in the government of Jean Lèques. She served a short term as Vice President of the Government of New Caledonia in August 2007, and was succeeded by Déwé Gorodey of the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS: Front de Libération Nationale Kanak et Socialiste).
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP] Annie Beustes, born Annie Campagne, is a New Caledonian politician, born on 15 August 1945 in Arget.
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]  Annie Abrahams (born 1954) is a Dutch performance artist specialising in video installations and internet based performances, often deriving from collective writings and collective interaction. Born and raised in Hilvarenbeek in the Netherlands, she migrated to and settled in France in 1987. Her performance work challenges and questions the limitations and possibilities of online communication and collaboration. Abrahams describes her body of work as "an aesthetics of trust and attention." Studying biology became an inspiration for her future line of work. "When studying biology I had to observe a colony of monkeys in a zoo. I found this very interesting because I learned something about human communities by watching the apes. In a certain way I watch the internet with the same appetite and interest. I consider it to be a universe where I can observe some aspects of human attitudes and behaviour without interfering."
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]  Cuyt was born on 27 May 1956 in Elizabethstad (now Lubumbashi), in the Belgian Congo. She earned her Ph.D. at the University of Antwerp in 1982. Her dissertation, Padé approximants for operators: theory and applications, was promoted by Luc Wuytack. She was a postdoctoral researcher with support from the Alexander von Humboldt Foundation, and completed a habilitation in 1986. She is a professor in the Department of Mathematics and Computer Science at the University of Antwerp, where she leads the computational mathematics group.
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]  Annie A. M. Cuyt (born 1956) is a Belgian computational mathematician known for her work on continued fractions, numerical analysis, Padé approximants, and related topics. She is a professor at the University of Antwerp, and a member of the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts.
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP] Annie Beustes  Annie Beustes (born 15 June 1945 in Arget) is a New Caledonian politician. She has served in the Congress of New Caledonia as a member of The Rally–UMP,<ref name=congres/> and is anti-independence; she also served in the government of Jean Lèques.  She served a short term as Vice President of the Government of New Caledonia in August 2007, and was succeeded by Déwé Gorodey of the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS: Front de Libération Nationale Kanak et Socialiste).
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP]
What is Annie Beustes's occupation? [SEP] of her activist and sex education work reflects this philosophy. In 2009, she appeared in the French documentary film "Mutantes: Punk, Porn, Feminism," speaking about the beginnings of the movement as well as her own contributions to it. In 2017, Sprinkle and Stephens were official artists in Documenta 14, widely considered to be the most significant art exhibition in the world. They presented performances and visual art, lectured, and previewed their new film documentary, Water Makes Us Wet: An Ecosexual Adventure. As noted above, Steinberg first gave herself the name “Annie” when she started working in pornography. As her career
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP]  Kazuyoshi Sekine (関根和美 Sekine Kazuyoshi), also known as Kazumi Sekine, is a Japanese film director, a dramatist, and a movie producer and the president of Sekine Production production company (関根プロ). He mainly directs movies produced by independent film studios. He is married to the actress Izumi Aki, who has appeared in his films. Many of his films are urban love stories.
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP]  Endo was the leader of an Inagawa-kai-affiliated criminal group who acted as the supervisor of Sekine, who was also a customer of the Africa Kennel. Following Kawasaki's disappearance, he attended a meeting with his family who suspected that Sekine had something to do with it. Agreeing with their sentiment, he began to extort Sekine for a large amount of money. Eventually, Sekine and Kazama, who were planning on building a new pet shop, began worrying that their property would be taken away, and decided to get rid of Endo. At the same time, they concluded that they should also dispose of his chauffeur, Susumu Wakui, who had no prior interactions with either of them. On the night of July 21, 1993, Sekine, Kazama and
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP]  Ryuichi Sekine (関根龍一) is a Japanese professional wrestler, currently working as a freelancer and is best known for his time in the professional wrestling promotion Kaientai Dojo.
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP]  Sejima was born on 29 October 1956 in Mito, Ibaraki, Japan. She graduated from Japan Women's University in 1979. She then went on to complete the Master's Degree course in architecture in 1981. In the same year, she began working with the architecture firm Toyo Ito and Associates until 1987.
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP]  Tomohiko Sekine (関根 友彦), a.k.a. Thomas T. Sekine is a Japanese economist and is considered to be one of the most important theorists on the field of Marx's labor theory of value. His main work The Dialectic of Capital was published in 1986. He is a scholar of Kozo Uno.
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP] Izumi Aki  , a.k.a. ; (born May 15, 1960), is a Japanese actress especially known for her roles in "pink film".  Izumi made her "pink film" debut in October 1980 in produced by Shishi Pro () and released by Toei. In the next four years, Aki appeared in about sixty pink films primarily for the Shintōhō Eiga and Million Film studios. In November 1981, she had a role in actress Rumi Tama's debut as a director in the "pink film" distributed by Million Film. Aki starred in two low-budget films directed by Hiroki Hirakawa, the August 1982  and the April 1983 production for Million Film.  In June 1984, Aki starred in , an entry in Nikkatsu's Roman Porno series, directed by Genji Nakamura, one of "The Three Pillars Of Pink". In one of her last "pink film" roles, in February 1985, she played opposite actor and director Yutaka Ikejima in another Million Film production .  After marrying the film director Kazuyoshi Sekine her "pink film" acting career seemed to have ended. Izumi later returned to the screen in 1999, starring in "Hatsujō midare zuma" (発情乱れ妻).
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP] Kin'ichi Kusumi
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP] Megumi Makihara
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP] Perfume (Japanese band)  The group was formed in early 2000 inside the young talent academy Actor's School Hiroshima and debuted with their first Hiroshima-local single "Omajinai Perori" released on March 21, 2002. A year later they moved to Tokyo, started to work with Capsule's producer Yasutaka Nakata, and released their first nationwide indie single, "Sweet Donuts" on August 6, 2003. In 2005, they made a major contract deal with Tokuma Japan Communications and released their major debut single "Linear Motor Girl" on September 21.  It was not until 2008 when the group's seventh single "Polyrhythm", which was chosen as the theme song of a recycle campaign by NHK, that they started to receive major attention in Japan. The single peaked at number seven on the Oricon charts, becoming their first Top 10 single in Japan, and since then, all of their subsequent works starting with their eighth single "Baby Cruising Love" have debuted within the Top 5 of the charts.  Perfume's first original studio album, "Game", released on April 16, 2008, became their first number one album in Japan, and "Love the World", released on July 9, 2008, became their first number one single. With roughly combined sales of both singles and albums, the group has sold over 5 million records.  The group was formed with an original post-Shibuya-kei sound and later transitioned toward contemporary electronic dance music that incorporated elements of synthpop, bubblegum pop, dance-pop, techno, and house music. The group is also known for their heavily processed vocals, making clever use of autotune, Harmony Engine, and vocoders. Over the years, Perfume has been one of the most successful acts in Asian music. The group's musical structure has been identified as technopop.  In 2012 the group announced that they had signed a global contract with Universal Music Group, Their fourth studio album "Level 3" was released on October 2, 2013, and was soon followed by "Sweet Refrain" a month after, serving as the lead single for their fifth studio album "Cosmic Explorer", which was released on April 6, 2016, and selected as one of "20 Best Pop Albums of 2016" by "Rolling Stone". Their sixth studio album "Future Pop" was released on August 15, 2018.
What is Kazuyoshi Sekine's occupation? [SEP] Renji Ishibashi  , born is a Japanese actor. He won the award for best supporting actor at the 15th Hochi Film Award for "Rōnin-gai".
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP]  Domingo de Eyzaguirre y Arechavala (July 17, 1775 – April 22, 1854) was a Chilean politician and philanthropist. He was born in Santiago, Chile, the son of the Basque Domingo Eyzaguirre Escutasolo and of María Rosa de Arechavala y Alday. He studied in the seminary of his native City, and showed remarkable aptitude for mathematics and chemistry. When scarcely nineteen years old he was appointed as assayer of the royal mint of Santiago, but resigned the next year, and devoted himself entirely to the cultivation of a farm near Santiago, inherited from his father. There his labors tended more to the improvement of the condition of the
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP]  its president. He was several times deputy to the National congress, where he soon became noted for his honesty. In 1845 he attempted to establish a socialistic colony in the country, where all should share the labor and produce, but soon dissensions broke out, and the project failed. A few years later he undertook to establish a large cloth factory, with the object of improving the condition of the poor and giving occupation to women and children. In this enterprise he invested the greater part of his fortune, but before the factory was finished he died. The Maipo canal board erected a statue to his memory.
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP]  soon converted the arid plain into a fertile garden. It was placed by the government under the administration of a board, of which Eyzaguirre was appointed president. In 1823 he was commissioned to reorganize the charitable institutions, and undertook the task of building a home for wayfarers and needy persons. Within a few years he had collected the necessary means, and a new and commodious building was erected. In 1835 he was appointed first governor of the department of Victoria, the capital of which he had founded and spent a good part of his fortune in improving. He established the agricultural society in 1838, and was
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP]  classes than to his own pecuniary interest. He improved the yield of some of the poorest lands by his knowledge of chemistry, introduced modern agricultural implements, and, by giving his laborers better than the accustomed wages and caring for their moral and material welfare, soon assembled a colony of well to do and contented people. He also introduced looms, which, although imperfect, served to weave from native wool the coarse cloth worn by the peasantry. From the first years of his country life he agitated the project of a canal to water the barren plain surrounding Santiago, which had been begun some time before, but was abandoned.
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP]  Jaime Eyzaguirre (21 December 1908 – 17 September 1968) was a Chilean lawyer, essayist and historian. He is variously recognized as a writer of Spanish traditionalist or conservative historiography in his country.
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP] Jaime Eyzaguirre  Jaime Eyzaguirre (21 December 1908 – 17 September 1968) was a Chilean lawyer, essayist and historian. He is variously recognized as a writer of Spanish traditionalist or conservative historiography in his country.<ref name=Eyzaguirrememoria/>
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP] "Aquelarre", playing titles such as, "El cautivo de Tiltil" and "Valparaíso". Eyzaguirre began his career in politics as a member of the Christian Democrat Party, and then migrated to the Christian Left Party and then to the Communist Party, where he stayed until his departure to the United States. He graduated as a Commercial Engineer with a mention in Economics at the University of Chile, and obtained his master's degree in Economics from the same university, specializing in Economic Development. Later, he traveled to the United States to obtain a Doctorate in Macroeconomics and International Trade from the Harvard University,
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP] Nicolás Eyzaguirre Nicolás Eyzaguirre Guzmán (born 3 January 1953 in Santiago) is a Chilean economist, and the former Minister of Education of his country. Previously, he was Chile's Minister of Finance between 2000 and 2006. He is the son of architect Joaquín Eyzaguirre and actress Delfina Guzmán. Eyzaguirre received his secondary education at the elite Colegio Verbo Divino private school. A music enthusiast, at the age of 15 he was admitted to the University of Chile Conservatory to study classical guitar, being lured by the Nueva canción movement. With his brother, Joaquín, he was part was of the folk group
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP] Jaime Eyzaguirre Jaime Eyzaguirre (21 December 1908 – 17 September 1968) was a Chilean lawyer, essayist and historian. He is variously recognized as a writer of traditionalist or conservative historiography in his country. Eyzaguirre was born into a religious upper class family in Santiago. As young man he studied law in the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile (PUC) and was member of the Catholic student organization Asociación Nacional de Estudiantes Católicos. During his studies he was influenced by the Jesuit Fernando Vives and the writings of Manuel Lacunza. Eyzaguirre started to court Adriana Philippi in 1929 and married her in
What is Domingo Eyzaguirre's occupation? [SEP] Agustín Eyzaguirre Agustín Manuel de Eyzaguirre y Arechavala (; May 3, 1768 – July 19, 1837) was a Chilean political figure. He served as Provisional President of Chile between 1826 and 1827. He was born in Santiago, Chile, the son of the Basque Domingo Eyzaguirre Escutasolo and of María Rosa de Aretxabala y Alday. He studied law and theology at the "Real Universidad de San Felipe", graduating in 1789. Originally he wanted to become a priest, but later changed his mind, and decided to take over the family hacienda in Calera de Tango. He married María Teresa de Larraín y
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]  Charles "Chuck" Harrison (September 23, 1931 — November 29, 2018) was an American industrial designer, speaker and educator. He was known for his pioneering role as one of the first African-American industrial designers of the era and the first to lead a design department at a major corporation. He was the first African-American executive to work at Sears, Roebuck and Company, starting in 1961 as a designer and eventually becoming manager of the company's entire design group. He was involved in the design of over 750 consumer products, including the portable hair dryer, toasters, stereos, lawn mowers, sewing machines, Craftsman power tools, the see-through measuring cup, fondue pots, stoves, and the first plastic trash can, which has been credited with changing the
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]  Between his undergraduate and graduate degrees, Harrison was drafted into the United States Army and posted to Germany. He served two years in the topography unit doing spot mapping and drafting. Getting through the segregated system in the United States and finding employment was hard for Harrison. Once he made my way through that he was able to proceed to develop a lifetime career. He said that other challenges were trying to live and pursue a professional career as a black person. Back in the U.S., fresh out of school, Harrison began looking for work with a design firm. He interviewed at Sears but was
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]  the elder Mr. Harrison taught shop at the Phoenix Union Colored High School, from which Charles graduated in 1948. He briefly attended the City College of San Francisco, where he was told his future lay in art, and he headed for the prestigious School of the Art Institute of Chicago. Harrison attended George Washington Carver High School, an all-black high school. The school closed when integration became law in the 1950s, and is now a museum and cultural center celebrating the contributions of African-Americans; a room in the museum is dedicated to Harrison's work. Harrison was active in extracurricular activities at the high school, playing basketball and tennis, and participating in the band and chorus.
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]  Harrison attended the School of the Art Institute of Chicago (SAIC) from 1949 to 1954, earning a Bachelor of Fine Arts. One of his undergraduate professors was Henry P. Glass, a high-profile industrial designer who Harrison was really energized to be associated with. Glass recognized Harrison and rewarded him with good grades and the opportunity to visit his studios. They were very accommodating and passionate. Glass would prove to be one of Harrison's greatest mentors and allies over the course of his career. It was also while attending SAIC that Harrison met his future wife. In 1956, he returned to the school to pursue graduate studies, transferring later to the Illinois Institute of Technology to complete his Master's in Art Education. He received his Master of Science in Art Education from the Institute of Design in 1963.
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]  that he could not be hired on staff because he was black. The hiring manager liked Harrison's work, however, and was able to feed him freelance work from Sears on the side. But it was Henry Glass, one of Harrison's undergraduate professors, who gave him his first job with a design firm, putting him to work on furniture designs. Harrison credits Glass with teaching him a great deal about detailing, drawing, and production, as well as the business elements of the trade, such as client relations. Over the next several years, Harrison worked for Ed Klein & Associates and Robert Podall Associates. It was at
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP]
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP] Charles Harrison Mason  Bishop Charles Harrison Mason Sr. (September 8, 1866 – November 17, 1961) was an American Holiness–Pentecostal pastor and minister. He was the founder and first Senior Bishop of the Church of God in Christ, based in Memphis, Tennessee. It developed into what is today the largest Holiness Pentecostal church denomination and one of the largest predominantly African-American Christian denominations in the United States.
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP] Charles Harrison Brown  Charles Harrison Brown (October 22, 1920 – June 10, 2003) was a two-term U.S. representative from Missouri's 7th congressional district from 1957–61, and is the most recent Democrat to serve from that district.  Brown was born in Coweta, Oklahoma, attended public schools in Humansville and Republic, Missouri, and high school in Springfield. He attended Drury College in 1937, 1938 and 1940 and George Washington University in Washington, D.C. in 1939.  From 1937–38, Brown was program director of KWTO-AM in Springfield, where he had been an announcer at age 16. He was radio publicity director for the Missouri Conservation Commission in 1940, and was an account executive for an advertising agency in St. Louis, Missouri from 1943 to 1945.  He founded and was president of Brown Radio-TV Productions, Inc. in Springfield; and was a partner with the Brown Brothers Advertising Agency, with offices in Nashville, Tennessee; St. Louis; and Springfield. He briefly produced "The Eddy Arnold Show" on ABC-TV in 1956 before resigning in August of that year after he had won the primary election.  Brown served as delegate to Democratic state and national conventions in 1956, 1960 and 1964. He was elected as a Democrat to the 85th and 86th Congresses (January 3, 1957 – January 3, 1961), but was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1960. Brown voted in favor of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957 and 1960.  He became a public relations consultant in Washington, D.C. and Los Angeles, California, and was senior vice president of an oil refining company in Los Angeles from 1973 to 1979. Brown died on June 10, 2003 in Henderson, Nevada at age 82.
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP] Charles Harrison Townsend  Charles Harrison Townsend (13 May 1851 — 26 December 1928) was an English architect. He was born in Birkenhead, educated at Birkenhead School and articled to the Liverpool architect Walter Scott in 1870. He moved to London with his family in 1880 and entered partnership with the London architect Thomas Lewis Banks in 1884. Townsend became a member of the Art Workers' Guild in 1888 and in the same year was elected a Fellow of the more conservative Royal Institute of British Architects. He remained an active member of both organisations throughout his career and was elected Master of the Art Workers' Guild in 1903. He is important Modern Style (British Art Nouveau style) architect whose favourite motif was the tree.
What is Charles Harrison's occupation? [SEP] Charles Custis Harrison  Charles Custis Harrison (May 3, 1844 – February 12, 1929) owned several sugar refineries in Philadelphia from 1863 to 1892, and served as Provost of the University of Pennsylvania from 1894 to 1910.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP]  Richard A. Harris (born 6 February 1934) is an American film editor with a career spanning nearly forty years. He graduated from the School of Cinematic Arts of the University of Southern California in 1956. He is most associated with the films of Michael Ritchie (Downhill Racer, The Candidate, An Almost Perfect Affair) and James Cameron (Terminator 2: Judgment Day, True Lies).
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP]  John Richard Harris (born 1910) was an Irish entomologist, fishing consultant, tackle merchant, and author. He was a keen angler and tier of flies from boyhood. He was a sometime merchant seaman, journalist, and freshwater biologist. He was a demonstrator in limnology at Trinity College, Dublin. He was a director of Garnetts & Keegan's Ltd, Dublin, gunsmiths and suppliers of fishing tackle, until his retirement in 1984. He wrote An Angler's Entomology, a book about mayflies for fly fishermen. He has been called, "perhaps the greatest living Irish angler-entomologist". He has also been described as, "a large affable man 'with a sharing attitude towards his whiskey and a colourful manner of expressing his trenchant views on fishing, fishermen, journalists, rugby, life and other matters'".
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP]  Richard Frank Keith Harris (born 5 March 1968) is a London-based composer, arranger, transcriber, teacher and pianist. Richard Harris studied composition and orchestration at the University of Edinburgh, where his tutors included Kenneth Leighton. At Edinburgh he co-founded the contemporary classical ensemble Piano Circus, with whom he was a member until 2002, commissioning and performing works by Arvo Pärt, Brian Eno, Philip Glass and Steve Reich. The ensemble was signed to Decca/Argo, producing five CDs. Compositions by Harris feature on the Argo CD Loopholes, and in full on the ensemble's own CD Landscapes Of The Heart; he also produced successful arrangements of works by Terry Riley and Thomas Ades. His work Hexada was featured in the UK television programme The Score.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP]  Richard Harris (born 1934) is a British television writer, most active from the early 1960s to the mid-1990s. He writes primarily for the crime and detective genres, having contributed episodes of series such as The Avengers, The Saint, The Sweeney, Armchair Mystery Theatre, and Target. He has helped to create several programmes of the genre, including Adam Adamant Lives!, Man in a Suitcase, and Shoestring. Despite a career that has been largely spent writing for the crime and detective genre, in 1994 he won the prize for best situation comedy from the Writers' Guild of Great Britain for Outside Edge, a programme he had originated as a stage play. Though the majority of his work has been for television, a substantial amount of his output has been for the stage.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP]  Harris is a cave diver with over 30 years of experience. Harris's cave diving experiences include leading a team of Australian divers to record depths of 192 and 221 m in 2011 and 2012 whilst searching for the source of New Zealand's Pearse River, the mission was filmed for National Geographic. In 2011, Harris was requested by the South Australian Police to participate in the recovery of the body of his close friend Agnes Milowka, who had died whilst exploring a cave near Tantanoola in the south east of South Australia. In 2009 Harris was awarded the "Outstanding Achievement" award at the Australian technical diving conference Oztek, to mark his exceptional contributions to cave diving exploration, in 2017 he was awarded the "Australasian Technical Diver of the Year" at Oztek.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP] Richard Harris  Richard St John Francis Harris (1 October 1930 – 25 October 2002) was an Irish actor and singer. He appeared on stage and in many films, notably as Corrado Zeller in Michelangelo Antonioni's "Red Desert", Frank Machin in "This Sporting Life", for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor, and as King Arthur in the 1967 film "Camelot", as well as the 1981 revival of the stage musical.  He played an English aristocrat captured by the Sioux in "A Man Called Horse" (1970), Oliver Cromwell in "Cromwell" (1970), an embattled Irish farmer in Jim Sheridan's "The Field" (which earned him a second Academy Award nomination for Best Actor), English Bob in Clint Eastwood's revisionist Western "Unforgiven" (1992), Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius in "Gladiator" (2000), "The Count of Monte Cristo" (2002) as Abbé Faria, and Albus Dumbledore in the first two "Harry Potter" films: "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone" (2001) and "Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets" (2002), the latter of which was his final film role. Harris had a number-one singing hit in Australia, Jamaica and Canada, and a top-ten hit in the United Kingdom, Ireland, and the United States with his 1968 recording of Jimmy Webb's song "MacArthur Park". In 2020, he was listed at number 3 on "The Irish Times"s list of Ireland's greatest film actors.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP] Richard Harris (anaesthetist)  Richard "Harry" Harris, , is an Australian anaesthetist and cave diver who played a crucial role in the Tham Luang cave rescue. He and Craig Challen were jointly awarded 2019 Australian of the Year as a result of that rescue.
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP] Jared Harris  Jared Francis Harris (born 24 August 1961) is a British actor. His roles include Lane Pryce in the AMC television drama series "Mad Men", for which he was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series; David Robert Jones in the science fiction series "Fringe"; King George VI in the historical drama series "The Crown"; Anderson Dawes on the science fiction series "The Expanse"; Captain Francis Crozier in the AMC series "The Terror"; and Valery Legasov in the HBO miniseries "Chernobyl", for which he won the British Academy Television Award for Best Actor and was nominated for the 2019 Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited Series or Movie"." He has also had significant supporting roles in films such as "Mr. Deeds" (2002), "The Curious Case of Benjamin Button" (2008), "" (2011), "Lincoln" (2012), and "Allied" (2016). In 2021, he took the role of Hari Seldon, a leading character in the Apple TV+ science fiction series "Foundation".
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP] Richard Rankin  Richard Rankin (born Richard Harris on 4 January 1983) is a Scottish film, television and theatre actor. He is best known for the Scottish sketch show "Burnistoun" and as Roger Wakefield MacKenzie in the Starz drama "Outlander".
What is Richard Harris's occupation? [SEP] Richard A. Harris  Richard A. Harris (born February 6, 1934) is an American film editor with a career spanning nearly forty years. He graduated from the School of Cinematic Arts of the University of Southern California in 1956. He is most associated with the films of Michael Ritchie ("Downhill Racer", "The Candidate", "An Almost Perfect Affair") and James Cameron ("", "True Lies").
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP]  Peter Murnoy was a nationalist politician and political activist in Northern Ireland. Murnoy was a farmer and was a volunteer in the Irish Republican Army from 1916 until 1922. In 1926, he was the joint founder of the National Defence Association, which opposed recognition of Stormont. In 1937, Murnoy launched the National Council of Unity, which aimed to apply the new Constitution of Ireland to the whole of the island. Murnoy was elected to the Parliament of Northern Ireland as the Nationalist Party MP for South Down at the 1945 general election. He was active in the Irish Anti-Partition League, but controversially refused to condemn T. J. Campbell leaving the Parliament to become a judge. Murnoy was defeated at the South Down Nationalist selection convention before the 1949 Northern Ireland general election, and stood down.
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP]  Peter William Mullin was born in South Pasadena, California near Los Angeles, California. He graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in Economics from the University of California, Santa Barbara.
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP]  Peter Gallo (born 1959 in Rutland, Vermont) is an artist and writer who lives and works in Hyde Park, VT. He received his Ph.D. and MA in Art History from Concordia University, Montreal, and has written about the intersection of biopolitics, medicalization, and artistic experience from the eighteenth to early twenty-first centuries. He has a BA from Middlebury College, Middlebury, VT. For many years Gallo worked as a psychiatric crisis support worker and services coordinator for people with psychiatric and developmental disabilities in northern Vermont. Additionally, the artist has been active in the Grass Roots Art and Community Efforts (GRACE) in Hardwick, VT. He has organized numerous exhibitions
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP] a genuine part of his aesthetic, whose ungainliness keeps us thinking.“ Peter Gallo Peter Gallo (born 1959 in Rutland, VT) is an artist and writer who lives and works in Hyde Park, VT. He received his Ph.D. and MA in Art History from Concordia University, Montreal, and has written about the intersection of biopolitics, medicalization, and artistic experience from the eighteenth to early twenty-first centuries. He has a BA from Middlebury College, Middlebury, VT. Additionally, the artist has been active in the Grass Roots Art and Community Efforts (GRACE) in Hardwick, VT. He has organized numerous exhibitions including "Insider Art,"
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP] Restaurant in Murroe, east Limerick. The menu has a Limerick/rugby theme. Peter Clohessy Peter Clohessy (born 22 March 1966) is an Irish former rugby union footballer. Clohessy played for Munster, Queensland Reds and Ireland. He played as a prop and was known by his fans as "The Claw". He played most of his career at tighthead prop but later switched to loosehead. Clohessy made his Munster debut against Ulster in 1987. He was part of the Munster team that lost 9-8 to Northampton Saints in the 2000 Heineken Cup Final, and he was again on the losing side when Munster
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP] Peter Frank (academic) Peter John Frank (6 May 1934 - 21 November 2013) was a professor of Russian politics in the Department of Government at the University of Essex and a media commentator on Russian affairs. He was born in Whitby, Yorkshire and after leaving school in 1950 did national service in the Army where he learnt the Russian language. He then trained as a teacher and did post-graduate work at the University of Leeds, before becoming a lecturer at the University of Essex in 1968. He was known for his television appearances on "Channel 4 News" as an expert
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP] Peter Michael Musone Peter Michael Musone is an Italian-American art critic and writer. In 1990 Musone moved to Florence and began a close collaboration with the Art Gallery La Pergola Arte. He came into contact with the art world in Florence, making friends with journalist Enrico Nistri and poets Franco Manescalchi, Anna Balsamo and Duccia Camiciotti. Beginning in 2007, he produced and presented a variety of exhibitions and their catalogues for the gallery. In 2010 he arranged poetry exhibitions in Florence. In 2011 he published the poetry anthology "A hundred voices to the sky". In 2016 he produced exhibitions at
What is Peter Murnoy's occupation? [SEP] Peter Walsh (organizer) Peter Walsh (born 1956) is an Australian-American professional organizer, writer, and media personality. He became an American citizen in 2002, and has dual citizenship. He lives in Los Angeles. Walsh was born in rural Victoria, Australia. He was educated at Salesian College, Rupertswood. He holds a master's degree with a specialty in educational psychology. Upon graduation from university he taught high school math, science, and graphic art. He also worked in drug abuse prevention and health promotion, and in developing health, education, and training programs for schools and corporations. He moved to Los Angeles in 1994, to
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]  James M. Geraghty (February 2, 1870 – April 29, 1940) was an Irish American politician. He is known as a former member of the Washington State House of Representatives, elected in 1897 to represent the 3rd legislative district from Spokane, Washington. An attorney by trade, he served as Spokane's city attorney from 1905 to 1907, and again from 1916 to 1932. In 1933, he was appointed to the Washington State Supreme Court, by Governor Clarence D. Martin.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]  Geraghty was born in Parramatta, New South Wales. He was the son of a railway porter, and was educated at Christian Brothers' High School, Lewisham. He worked as a railway engineer and hotel manager and owned substantial suburban property.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]  James M. Geraghty was born on February 2, 1870, in County Mayo, Ireland. He is the son of Patrick and Bridget (née Haley) Geraghty. In 1880, the family immigrated to the US, arriving in New York and establishing a farm in Indiana. He attended school in Rush County, Indiana. After relocating to Spokane in 1892, he initially worked as a teamster, before attending business school. In 1908, Geraghty married Nora Toolen. Together, they raised nine children in Spokane. They were members of the Catholic Church, known for supporting Catholic interests throughout the Pacific Northwest. In December 1939, Geraghty began experiencing symptoms from a recurring kidney disease and died on April 29, 1940, in Spokane.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]  James Leo Geraghty (1896 – 27 June 1960) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from 1941 until 1953. He was a member of the Labor Party (ALP) until 1950 and then sat as an Independent Labor member.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]  Thomas F. Geraghty is the Class of 1967 B. James Haddad Professor of Law, and formerly the Associate Dean for Clinical Legal Education and Director of the Bluhm Legal Clinic at the Northwestern University Pritzker School of Law. He has also worked in Tanzania, Uganda, and Malawi on research projects with law students involving juvenile justice, the legal problems of street children, the status of children orphaned by HIV/AIDS, women in the legal profession, and freedom of the press. In 1996, He helped to design a clinical curriculum for the Addis Ababa University School of Law and recently completed an assessment of Legal Education in Ethiopia for ABA/ROLI.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP] James M. Geraghty  James M. Geraghty (February 2, 1870 – April 29, 1940) was an Irish American politician. He is known as a former member of the Washington State House of Representatives, elected in 1897 to represent the 3rd legislative district from Spokane, Washington. An attorney by trade, he served as Spokane's city attorney from 1905 to 1907, and again from 1916 to 1932. In 1933, he was appointed to the Washington State Supreme Court, by Governor Clarence D. Martin.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP] Jack Geraghty  John Vincent "Jack" Geraghty, Jr. (born February 23, 1934) is an Irish American civic politician, journalist, and public relations consultant from Spokane, Washington. In 1964, he was elected to the Spokane County Board of Commissioners, while simultaneously serving in the Air National Guard and working as a staff journalist with the "Spokane Daily Chronicle". He resigned as County Commissioner in 1971, when the City of Spokane began preparing to host the 1974 World's Fair. While he was initially named as the Director of Public Relations, he was later appointed to serve as the Vice President of Exhibitor and Guest Relations. At that time, he established the public relations consulting firm of Jack Geraghty and Associates. In 1975, he founded the short-lived weekly newspaper, known as "The Falls". In 1992, he was elected as the 39th mayor of the city, serving from 1993 to 1998. In 2011, he was honored as a member of the University of Washington Department of Communication's Alumni Hall of Fame.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP]
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP] Jim Webb  James Henry Webb Jr. (born February 9, 1946) is an American politician and author. He has served as a United States senator from Virginia, Secretary of the Navy, Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs, Counsel for the United States House Committee on Veterans' Affairs and is a decorated Marine Corps officer.  Outside of working in government, Webb is also an Emmy Award winning journalist, filmmaker, and author of ten books. In addition, he taught literature at the United States Naval Academy and was a Fellow at the Harvard Institute of Politics. As a member of the Democratic Party, Webb announced on November 19, 2014, that he was forming an exploratory committee to evaluate a run for President of the United States in 2016. On July 2, 2015, he announced that he would be joining the race for the Democratic nomination for president, but stepped down from running in the primaries on October 20, 2015, stating that he was "not comfortable" with many political positions from the party's leadership.  In 2020, Webb was named the first distinguished fellow of University of Notre Dame's International Security Center.
What is James M. Geraghty's occupation? [SEP] The Hurt Locker  The Hurt Locker is a 2008 American war thriller film directed by Kathryn Bigelow and written by Mark Boal. It stars Jeremy Renner, Anthony Mackie, Brian Geraghty, Christian Camargo, Ralph Fiennes, David Morse, and Guy Pearce. The film follows an Iraq War Explosive Ordnance Disposal team who are targeted by insurgents and shows their psychological reactions to the stress of combat. Boal drew on his experience during embedded access to write the screenplay.  "The Hurt Locker" premiered at the 2008 Venice International Film Festival before it was released in the United States on June 26, 2009, by Summit Entertainment. The film earned acclaim from critics, who praised Bigelow's directing, Renner's performance, Boal's screenplay, editing, and action sequences. The film was nominated for nine Academy Awards and won six, including Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Original Screenplay. It was the first Best Picture winner to have been directed by a woman. The film grossed $49.2 million worldwide.  In 2020, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP]  Christopher Hutchings (born 5 July 1957) is an English former footballer and manager. He played for a number of clubs including Chelsea and played more than 100 games for Brighton & Hove Albion and Huddersfield Town. He has managed in the Premier League with Bradford City and Wigan Athletic, while his most recent tenure was at Walsall. He left Ipswich Town in November 2012 following Paul Jewell's departure.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP]  Timothy Hutchings (born 1974) is an American visual artist living and working in New York City. He uses a diverse range of media, ranging from video to sculpture to drawing. Hutchings has exhibited work internationally, notably at P.S.1/MOMA and the New Museum in New York City, Western Bridge in Seattle, the Centro de Arte de Salamanca and Museo de Arte Contemporane in Spain, and the Borusan Cultural Center in Istanbul. He also constructed the World's Largest Wargame Table for Real Art Ways in Hartford, Connecticut.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP]  Michael Hutchings (born 1949) is a professional chef who is best known as the chef/owner of Michael's Waterside in Santa Barbara, California. He appears with Julia Child on the PBS cooking program Dinner at Julia's and on Cox Television with Jeanne Berg's Cooking Local program. Since 2015, he has appeared as the Chef Host of the Santa Barbara ABC-Affiliate cooking program The Inn Crowd.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP]  Michael Hutchings first worked at a restaurant in college. His first major job was in the kitchen of the private Club 33 at Disneyland. Michael Hutchings eventually became executive chef of Club 33, and afterwards worked under several Los Angeles chefs, including James Sly and Jean Grodin. He then opened Michael's Waterside in Santa Barbara. He sold Michael's Waterside in 1993, and worked at other restaurants for some time. Chef Michael currently oversees a food consulting and service business in Santa Barbara.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP]  Timothy ("Tim") Hilton Hutchings (born 4 December 1958 in London) is a male former middle- and long-distance runner who represented England and Great Britain internationally.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP] Michael Hutchings (chef)  Michael Hutchings (born 1949) is a professional chef who is best known as the chef/owner of Michael's Waterside in Santa Barbara, California. He appears with Julia Child on the PBS cooking program "Dinner at Julia's" and on Cox Television with Jeanne Berg's "Cooking Local" program. Since 2015, he has appeared as the Chef Host of the Santa Barbara ABC-Affiliate cooking program "The Inn Crowd".
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP] Geoffrey Hutchings  Geoffrey Hutchings (8 June 1939 – 1 July 2010) was an English stage, film and television actor.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP] Sarah Hutchings  Sarah Hutchings "née" Reneer (born September 27, 1984) is an American composer of contemporary opera, art song, and choral works.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP] Robert H. Goddard  Robert Hutchings Goddard (October 5, 1882 – August 10, 1945) Goddard successfully launched his rocket on March 16, 1926, which ushered in an era of space flight and innovation. He and his team launched 34 rockets between 1926 and 1941, achieving altitudes as high as and speeds as fast as 885 km/h (550 mph).<ref name="Goddard Launch History" />  Goddard's work as both theorist and engineer anticipated many of the developments that would make spaceflight possible. He has been called the man who ushered in the Space Age. His 1919 monograph "A Method of Reaching Extreme Altitudes" is considered one of the classic texts of 20th-century rocket science. Goddard successfully pioneered modern methods such as two-axis control (gyroscopes and steerable thrust) to allow rockets to control their flight effectively.  Although his work in the field was revolutionary, Goddard received little public support, moral or monetary, for his research and development work.<ref name= "Caidin" /> He was a shy person, and rocket research was not considered a suitable pursuit for a physics professor.<ref name= "Frank" /> The press and other scientists ridiculed his theories of spaceflight. As a result, he became protective of his privacy and his work.  Years after his death, at the dawn of the Space Age, Goddard came to be recognized as one of the founding fathers of modern rocketry, along with Robert Esnault-Pelterie, Konstantin Tsiolkovsky and Hermann Oberth. He not only recognized early on the potential of rockets for atmospheric research, ballistic missiles and space travel but also was the first to scientifically study, design, construct and fly the precursory rockets needed to eventually implement those ideas.  NASA's Goddard Space Flight Center was named in Goddard's honor in 1959. He was also inducted into the International Aerospace Hall of Fame in 1966, and the International Space Hall of Fame in 1976.
What is Michael Hutchings's occupation? [SEP] Jeffrey A. Hutchings  Jeffrey Alexander Hutchings FRSC (September 11, 1958 – January 30, 2022) was a Canadian fisheries scientist. He was a professor of biology, and the Izaak Walton Killam Memorial Chair in Fish, Fisheries, and Oceans at Dalhousie University.
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP]  He was born on 18 February 1962, in Lyantonde District.
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP]  Mworia was born in 1978. He attended Alliance High School, Strathmore University, and the University of Nairobi. He has a Bachelor of Laws from University of Nairobi. He is also a certified public accountant and a chartered financial analyst. In 2016, Machakos University awarded him an honorary doctorate degree.
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP]  Kauluma was born in Ovamboland. In 1949, he began studying at St. Mary's School in Odibo. He was baptised in 1951 at the age of 18. In 1953, he was recruited by the South West African Native Labour Association (SWANLA) and was sent to work in the diamond mines in Oranjemund in the far south of the country. He studied at the Dorothea Mission in Johannesburg between 1958 and 1959, and in Kenya, before returning to Namibia in 1964. In 1965 he travelled to Canada and the United States for further study, graduating with a BA degree from the University of Toronto and an MA from New York University. He was ordained: made a deacon on 22 June 1975 at the Church of the Ascension,
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP]  James Webb (born June 20, 1975 in Kimberley, Northern Cape) is a South African artist best known for his interventions and installations incorporating sound. Webb also works as a sound designer, curator and teacher. His sound installations place special emphasis on the sourcing and presentation of the sound clips, as well as the social significance and context of these sounds. Often referred to as a "collector of sounds," Webb is interested in the role that aural events play in our everyday life. The physical presentation of the work, including the installation space and the logistics of speakers, are also deliberate choices for Webb. Webb received the 2008 ABSA L'Atelier Award and his work is featured in many private and public collections, including the Iziko South African National Gallery, the Johannesburg Art Gallery, and the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Art Museum.
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP]  James Motlatsi (born 5 June 1951) is a Mosotho mining executive and former trade union leader, who has been active in South Africa. Born in Mohale's Hoek in Lesotho, Motlatsi became a labourer at the Welkom gold mine in 1970. He was gradually promoted, becoming a driller, then a team leader, and eventually working as a personnel assistant. In 1981, the Council of Unions of South Africa resolved to establish a mining union, and Motlatsi met Cyril Ramaphosa, who was its main organiser. Motlatsi was enthusiastic, and immediately began recruiting members at the mine. When the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) was officially founded, in 1982, he was elected as its first president. The NUM grew rapidly, to become
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP] Malawi to study for a master's degree at Westminster. The charity has been supported by the Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE). James is also a global ambassador for the Special Olympics and works with Access Sport to provide sports provision in deprived areas of the United Kingdom. James is an avid artist, and has auctioned several of his paintings for charity. In addition to being an art lover, he writes a regular column for "The Observer" newspaper, and donates his article fee to charity. James was also the illustrator on the children's book "Harry's Magic Pockets: The Circus" written by
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP] Selema Masekela Selema Mabena "Sal" Masekela (born August 28, 1971) is an American television host, sports commentator, actor, and singer. Masekela was born in Los Angeles, the son of the South African jazz musician Hugh Masekela, and a Haitian mother. Masekela is also the older half-brother of "" contestant Nathan Gonzalez. He was raised in Staten Island, New York and Carlsbad, California, where he attended Carlsbad High School. Masekela is the co-founder of Berkela Motion Pictures with Jason Bergh. When he was a teenager, Masekela’s upbringing brought him to Southern California, where he was first exposed to surfing, snowboarding, and
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP] action sports. He also serves on the advisory boards of The Lunchbox Fund, a non-profit organization which provides a daily meal to students of township schools in Soweto of South Africa, and The Tony Hawk Foundation, an organization dedicated to financing and building high-quality, legal skateboarding parks for kids. Masekela is also a strong public supporter of the Surfrider Foundation and Life Rolls On. Selema Masekela Selema Mabena "Sal" Masekela (born August 28, 1971) is an American television host, sports commentator, actor, and singer. Masekela was born in Los Angeles, the son of the South African jazz musician Hugh Masekela,
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP] Institute of Technology in Pasadena, California. In 2005 James was appointed Director of the Africa Genome Education Institute. James is an Honorary Professor of Sociology (University of Pretoria) and Human Genetics (University of Cape Town). In 2001, James was appointed Associate Editor at the "Cape Argus" newspaper, but left the paper later that year. In 2004 he became a Director at Naspers's Media24. James served as a trustee of the Ford Foundation of New York between 1996 and 2009. In 2009 James became a Member of Parliament with the Democratic Alliance, South Africa's opposition party. He was appointed Shadow Minister
What is James Alex Msekela's occupation? [SEP] of the Public Service Commission. In 1988, he was ordained a deacon in Christ the King Cathedral at Bugembe. The following year, he was elected as reverend, canon and dean of the cathedral. He also helped with civil repairs to the physical building and purchased and financed the installation of a church organ out of his own pocket. He died on 29 January 2012, at Nakasero Hospital, in the country's capital, Kampala. He was interned at his ancestral home at Namungalwe, in Iganga District. He was survived by a widow and six of his seven children. James Zikusoka James Mbuzi
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP]  Masayoshi Nataniya (那谷屋 正義) is a Japanese politician of the Constitutional Democratic Party and a member of the House of Councillors in the Diet (national legislature). A native of Yokohama, Kanagawa and graduate of Yokohama National University, he was elected for the first time in 2004.
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP]  Nakanishi was born in Ōimachi, Shinagawa, Tokyo in 1935. In 1958, he graduated with a bachelor's degree from Tokyo University of the Arts, where he focused on oil painting. Jirō Takamatsu, who would become an important collaborator, was a classmate of Nakanishi’s during this time. While at Tokyo University of the Arts, Nakanishi became interested in art’s ability to engage social issues when he came into contact with the “workers’ culture circle” movement. In 1960, Nakanishi was a frequent participant in the activities of the short-lived but influential "anti-art" collective Neo-Dada Organizers, of which his future Hi-Red Center compatriot Genpei Akasegawa was a member. Nakanishi began his artistic career as a painter, creating works
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP]  Natsuyuki Nakanishi (Kanji: 中西夏之, Nakanishi Natsuyuki, b. July 14, 1935, Tokyo, d. October 23, 2016) was a Japanese visual and conceptual artist associated with the 1960s avant-garde art movement in Japan. His artworks ranged from Neo-Dadaist object-based works, happenings and performance art, to abstract painting. Nakanishi co-founded the groundbreaking artistic collective Hi-Red Center along with Jirо̄ Takamatsu and Genpei Akasegawa. Later in his career, Nakanishi would become known for painting practice featuring subdued palettes and idiosyncratic marks. He is also recognized for his pedagogical work, including his involvement with the experimental Bigakko school as well as professorship as Tokyo University of the Arts.
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] Abe Masayoshi (阿部 正由), Japanese daimyō ; Masayoshi Ebina (蛯名 正義), Japanese jockey ; Masayoshi Esashi (江刺 正喜), Japanese engineer ; Masayoshi Hamada (浜田 昌良), Japanese politician ; Masayoshi Haneda (羽田 昌義), Japanese actor ; Hotta Masayoshi (堀田 正睦), Japanese Rōjū ; Masayoshi Ito (伊東 正義), Japanese politician ; Masayoshi "Mabo" Kabe (加部 正義), Japanese-French musician ; Masayoshi Kan (簡 優好), Japanese sprinter ; Masayoshi Kato (加藤 政義), Japanese baseball player ; Kanematsu Masayoshi (兼松 正吉), Japanese samurai ; Kurimoto Masayoshi (栗本 昌臧), Japanese entomologist ; Masayoshi Manabe (真鍋 政義), Japanese volleyball player ; Matsukata Masayoshi (松方 正義), Japanese politician ; Masayoshi Motegi (茂木 正淑), Japanese professional wrestler ; Masayoshi Nagata (永田 雅宜), Japanese mathematician ; Masayoshi Namiki (並木 正芳), Japanese politician ; Masayoshi Nataniya (那谷屋 正義), Japanese politician ; Masayoshi Okada (岡田 正義), Japanese football
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP]  Masaya Imanishi was born in Nara, Nara, Japan, in 1947. He graduated from the Kyoto City University of Arts and then learned porcelain glazing from Yūzō Kondo（近藤悠三）who was Living National Treasure in Japan. He was certified as a Nihon Kogeikai regular member in 1979. After that Imanishi continued to create works at Akishino Kiln in Nara. In 1991, he studied modeling and ceramics in the United States as Overseas Study Program Awardee by the Agency for Cultural Affairs. During that time he made many works and held personal exhibitions and artist demonstrations at the Archie Bray Foundation for the Ceramic Arts and various universities. The theme for his works is “the energy of nature,” stemming from how he was deeply moved by from his observations of nature in the United States, and particularly the American West.
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] Kazuya Shimba
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] termed "Melancholic Paris Ⅱ" in 12 locations throughout the country. In 2013 he painted a mural "Stockholm Twilight" at the Tokyo University of Science. In 2014, he bought an inn abandoned in Nagoya Onsen, in the city Izunokuni, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan. Having refurbished the inn, he founded what is called "Izunokuni Art Village". "Izunokuni Art Village" is a place dedicated to creation where everyone freely expresses his creativity. Shigeru Nakanishi Nakanishi graduated from the Tokyo University of Science Engineering Division, Architecture Section in 1969. He then became an architectural designer, painting as a hobby. After winning the leading prize in
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] Masayoshi Soken Born in La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico, Soken and his family later moved to Tokyo, where he attended the Tokyo University of Science. He joined Square in 2001, where his first assignment was arranging two songs on the extended play ""; he was credited as "Masayoshi Kikuchi". His debut as a composer came with the Japan-exclusive sports games "Nichibeikan Pro Baseball: Final League", in which he was the sole composer, and "World Fantasista" with synthesizer programmer Takeharu Ishimoto. Soken came into the public eye when he performed at the 2005 Square Enix Party event and was confirmed
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] Masayoshi Esashi Born in Sendai, Japan, in 1949, Masayoshi Esashi received his B.E. degree in electronic engineering in 1971 and a Doctor of Engineering degree in 1976 at Tohoku University. Esashi served as a research associate from 1976 and an associate professor from 1981 at the Department of Electronic Engineering, Tohoku University. Since 1990 he has been a professor. Currently, he is the director of micro/nanomachining research and education center in Tohoku University. He is an associate director of the Semiconductor Research Institute. He was a director of the Venture Business Laboratory in Tohoku University (1995–1998), and was a President
What is Masayoshi Nataniya's occupation? [SEP] Shigeru Nakanishi Nakanishi graduated from the Tokyo University of Science Engineering Division, Architecture Section in 1969. He then became an architectural designer, painting as a hobby. After winning the leading prize in the "Selection of Contemporary Western Painting" in 1990, he made his debut with the first solo exhibition "Melancholic Paris" at the Ichimai-no-e Gallery in Ginza, Tokyo. He has held a solo exhibition every year since. In 1995, he began his series of paintings titled "Ruins" after the Great Hanshin earthquake in Kobe. In 2000, he retired from architecture and began painting exclusively. In 2001, he received the Special
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP]  Ernst Gerhardt Timme (June 23, 1843 – April 1, 1923) was a German American immigrant, farmer, and Republican politician. He was the 13th Secretary of State of Wisconsin (1882&ndash;1891) and a member of the Wisconsin State Senate, representing Racine and Kenosha counties. He was a Union Army volunteer in the American Civil War and lost an arm at the Battle of Chickamauga.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP]  Timme was born in Werden, a borough of the city of Essen, in what is now western Germany. At the time of his birth, this region was part of the Rhine Province, part of the Kingdom of Prussia. At age 5, Timme emigrated with his parents to the United States by sea. The voyage was difficult, the boat was shipwrecked twice during the crossing, and ultimately took seven weeks to reach its destination. The Timme family arrived at Southport, Wisconsin Territory (now Kenosha), on August 17th of that year. They quickly acquired land in the western part of the county, in the town of Wheatland, and established a homestead. Timme was educated in the common schools in Wheatland, and, on turning 18, he enlisted in the Union Army for service in the American Civil War.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] Drew Timme (born 2000), American basketball player ; Ernst Timme (1843–1923), American politician ; Herman Timme (born 1933), Dutch decathlete
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] Timme Hoyng (born 1976), Dutch field hockey player ; Timme Rosenkrantz (1911–1969), Danish aristocrat, author and jazz enthusiast
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP]  Thomke first completed an apprenticeship as a mechanic at the factory of ETA SA in Grenchen Canton of Solothurn. Between 1961 and 1967, he studied natural sciences, mainly chemistry at the University of Bern and University of Lausanne. Then he pursued medical studies in Berne, while working full-time. He was promoted to doctor in 1975. He completed his education with management studies and marketing at the (INSEAD), Fontainebleau.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] John F. Reynolds (politician)  John F. Reynolds (July 25, 1852June 20, 1934) was an American farmer and Republican politician. He was a member of the Wisconsin State Senate (1899–1902) and State Assembly (1895–1898), representing Kenosha County.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] Edwin Coe  Edwin Delos Coe (June 11, 1840May 5, 1909) was an American newspaper editor, publisher, and Republican politician. He was a member of the Wisconsin State Assembly, representing northern Walworth County in 1878 and 1879. He subsequently served as chief clerk of the Assembly for four terms and was elected chairman of the Republican Party of Wisconsin in 1896.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] Grand High Witch  The Grand High Witch of All the World or just The Grand High Witch, known as Eva Ernst and Lilith, is a fictional character and the main antagonist in the 1983 children's dark fantasy novel "The Witches" by Roald Dahl, as well as the graphic novel and the two film adaptations, in which she was played by Anjelica Huston (in 1990) and Anne Hathaway (in 2020). In the narrative, it is a title given to the all-powerful leader of all the witches on Earth.  "The Witches" presents The Grand High Witch as a particularly powerful, evil and feared witch who hides her ancient age and hideous appearance behind an attractive disguise, in order to blend in with society, and plots to wipe out all the children in England after summoning the country's witches for the task. The boy protagonist and his grandmother (herself a retired witch-hunter who once searched the world for The Grand High Witch, but could never find her) encounter her by accident in a hotel in England, setting in motion the main plot of the novel.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP] James R. Lyon  James R. Lyon (November 4, 1833c. 1914) was an American merchant, Republican politician, and Union Army volunteer in the American Civil War.
What is Ernst Timme's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP]  Franz Lichtblau (23 February 1928 - 25 November 2019) was a German architect. Lichtblau studied after his Abitur 1946 and after an apprenticeship as a carpenter with Egon Eiermann at the Technical University of Karlsruhe as well as with Robert Vorhoelzer, Martin Elsaesser, Hermann Leitenstorfer and Hans Döllgast at the Technical University of Munich. In 1956 he took part in a competition for the Protestant Church in Oberaudorf am Inn, which he won. Subsequently, he established a number of Protestant churches in Upper Bavaria and from 1962 also in Würzburg, Coburg, Erlangen, Augsburg, Bamberg and Kempten. In addition, he undertook numerous monumental renovations in Nördlingen, Memmingen,
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP] Jost Bürgi (1552 in Lichtensteig – 1632) a Swiss clockmaker, a maker of astronomical instruments and a mathematician. ; Augustine Reding (1625 in Lichtensteig - 1692) a Swiss Benedictine, the Prince-Abbot of Einsiedeln, and theological writer ; Max Rychner (1897 in Lichtensteig – 1965) a Swiss writer, journalist, translator, and literary critic ; Paula Rueß (1902 in Lichtensteig - 1980) a German political activist, forced into exile by the Nazi takeover, during the early 1940s she worked with the French Resistance
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP]  Ludwig Lichtheim (7 December 1845 in Breslau – 13 January 1928) was a German physician of Jewish descent.
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP]  He was educated at the gymnasium in Breslau, and studied medicine at the universities of Berlin, Zurich, and Breslau, graduating in 1868. From 1869 to 1872 he was assistant in the medical hospital at Breslau under Hermann Lebert; from 1872 to 1873 in the surgical hospital at Halle under Richard von Volkmann; and from 1873 to 1877 again at Breslau in the medical polyclinic, under Lebert and Michael Anton Biermer. He became privat-docent at Breslau University in 1876; an assistant professor at the University of Jena in 1877; and was called in 1888 to the University of Königsberg as a professor of medicine, his final position. In 1891, with Adolph Strümpell, Wilhelm Heinrich Erb and Friedrich Schultze (1848-1934), he founded the journal "Deutsche Zeitschrift für Nervenheilkunde". He was an expert on aphasia and developed an explanation of language processing in the brain, which was used as part of medical school training in neurology. Furthermore, he developed an early model about the functional principle of the (human) brain, the so-called Wernicke-Lichtheim Model.
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP]  In Chicago, young Lichtenberger apprenticed in carriage and wagon-making and carried on this occupation in both San Francisco and Los Angeles. In the latter city he formed a partnership with Louis Roeder, from 1866 to 1869. He retired in 1886, having invested in real estate. In 1891 he was vice-president of the German-American Savings Bank at 114 South Main Street, Los Angeles.
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP] List of victims of the September 11 attacks (H–N)  These are the nearly 3,000 victims of the September 11 attacks, as they appear inscribed at the National September 11 Memorial & Museum in New York.
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP] recommendation Licht could change in the studio of the architect Richard Lucae in Berlin. In contrast to the orientation of Adler at the work of Karl Friedrich Schinkel, Lucae favored the formal language of the Italian Renaissance. Later he moved to Vienna and worked with the architect Heinrich von Ferstel. From 1869 until the end of 1870 Licht traveled through Italy. This study tour took him through the whole country, but priorities were Rome and Pompeii. After returning to Germany, he married Clara Heckmann the same year. In the spring of the following year he established himself as a freelance
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP] Hugo Licht Hugo Georg Licht (21 February 1841 in Nieder-Zedlitz (today Siedlnica, Poland) – 28 February 1923 in Leipzig, Germany) was a German architect. Licht was the son of the landholder Georg Hugo Licht. In the years 1862 and 1863 he was mason trainee at the renowned Berlin architects Wilhelm Böckmann and Hermann Ende. At this time, they embossed at that time the late Neoclassical architecture in Berlin – especially with private villas and other magnificent buildings. In 1864, he enrolled at the Berlin Royal Prussian Academy of Architecture and was a pupil of Friedrich Adler. Later and with his
What is Ludwig Lichtschein's occupation? [SEP] Ludwig Merwart Ludwig Merwart (1 September 1913 – 13 July 1979) was an influential Austrian painter and graphic artist. He is an important representative of Tachism and was a major force in graphic arts and prints, especially after World War II. His work belongs to the most significant and interesting contributions to graphic arts in Austria to this day. Merwart’s unique technique of iron etching attracted great attention in the 50s and 60s and 70s. In 1959 he exhibited his work at the documenta 2 in Kassel (Germany) and at the V. Biennale de São Paulo (Brasil), the following year
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]  Władysław Sławny (1907–1991) was a Polish photographer.
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]  injuries, and the death of his wife. Józef Piłsudski ordered him to oversee party finances. In 1908, he was sent to Paris, and after his return, took part in the legendary Bezdany raid. On June 1, 1909, Sławek, already a member of the Union of Active Struggle (ZWC), was arrested by the Austrian authorities. He was released after two weeks, with help from Austrian military intelligence (Hauptkundschaftstelle, HK-Stelle), which cooperated with the leadership of the ZWC. The Austrians highly appreciated the information on Russian army, stationed in Congress Poland. In exchange, the HK-Stelle allowed the ZWC to carry out its activities.
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]  1903, while being transferred to a prison in Sieradz. Soon afterwards, by the order of Piłsudski, he began working on the creation of a secret, paramilitary organization within the socialist party. On November 13, 1904, he organized a mass anti-Tsarist rally at Warsaw's Grzybowski Square. Sławek delivered weapons to some participants, and the rally ended in an exchange of fire with the police. It was the first act of armed resistance in Congress Poland since the January Uprising. During the 1905 Congress of the PPS, Sławek was elected to the Central Workers Committee (CKR), as its youngest member. His main duty was
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]  Sławek was one of the chief advisors of Piłsudski. In mid-1914, he joined 1st Brigade, Polish Legions, but in August, he did not march with First Cadre Company to Congress Poland, remaining in Kraków. In 1915, Sławek was sent by Piłsudski to Warsaw, where he created local structures of Polish Military Organisation (POW). At the same time, he formed a secret body within the POW, called Military Association (Zwiazek Wojskowy), later renamed into Organization A. In December 1916, after the creation of Provisional Council of State, Sławek was employed by its Military Commission. Following the Oath crisis, he was arrested by the Germans (July 13, 1917), and sent to Warsaw Citadel and then to Szczypiorno and Modlin. He was finally released on November 12, 1918.
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]  enterprises related to construction, real estate and petroleum trade. During his studies at the Polytechnic, Sikorski became involved in the People's School Association (Towarzystwo Szkoły Ludowej), an organization dedicated to spreading literacy among the rural populace. Around 1904–1905 he was briefly involved with the endecja Association of the Polish Youth "Zet", and then drifted towards paramilitary socialist organizations related to the Polish Socialist Party, which was intent on securing Polish independence. He made contact with the socialist movement around 1905–1906 through the Union for the Resurrection of the Polish Nation (Związek Odrodzenia Narodu Polskiego). In 1908, in Lwów, Sikorski—together with Józef Piłsudski, Marian Kukiel, Walery Sławek, Kazimierz Sosnkowski,
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP] Wiesław Ochman  Wiesław Ochman (; born 6 February 1937) is a Polish tenor.
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP] List of Polish people  This is a partial list of notable Polish or Polish-speaking or -writing people. People of partial Polish heritage have their respective ancestries credited.
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]
What is Władysław Sławny's occupation? [SEP]
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP]  Jacob Köbel (1462–1533) was a printer and publisher in Oppenheim. Köbel graduated in arts and law from Heidelberg University in 1491. He appears to have then studied mathematics at Cracow, and is said to have been a fellow student of Copernicus there. He learnt the publishing trade as editor and proofreader for Heinrich Knoblochtzer in Heidelberg. In 1494 he married a woman from Oppenheim and settled there as secretary to the city council.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP]  Kober was born into a Jewish family in Brody, Galicia, in what was then the Austro-Hungarian Empire (now part of western Ukraine). His family emigrated to the United States when he was 4. They first moved to Harlem before settling in The Bronx. He attended the High School Of Commerce (later known as Louis D. Brandeis High School) for one semester before working at a series of jobs, including as a stock clerk at Gimbels. He then found work as a theatrical press agent for the Shubert brothers, Jed Harris, Herman Shumlin, and Ruth Draper. His grandnephew is actor Andrew Kober. Kober married Lillian Hellman on December 31, 1925. During their marriage, they often lived apart. They divorced in 1932, after Hellman had started a relationship with Dashiell Hammett. He later married Margaret Frohnknecht in 1941, who died in 1951. They had one daughter, Catherine.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP]  Walter Köberle (born 13 January 1949 in Kaufbeuren) is an ice hockey player who played for the West German national team. He won a bronze medal at the 1976 Winter Olympics.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP] Ferdinand Kobell (1740–1799), German painter and engraver ; Franz Kobell (1749–1822), German painter, etcher, and draftsman ; Hendrik Kobell (1751–1779), Dutch landscape and marine painter, etcher, draftsman, and watercolorist ; Jan Kobell (1779–1814), Dutch animal and landscape painter ; Wilhelm von Kobell (1766–1853), German painter, printmaker, and teacher ; Wolfgang Franz von Kobell (1803–1882), German mineralogist, inventor, writer, and poet Kobell (Surname) may refer to:
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP]  Hermann Kober (born 1888 in Beuthen, Germany (now Bytom, Poland), died 4 October 1973 in Birmingham, England) was a Jewish-German mathematician who introduced Erdélyi–Kober operators. He taught (mathematics and science), up to the early 1960s, at some of the King Edward VI Foundation schools in Birmingham.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP]
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP] World Slavery Tour  The World Slavery Tour was a concert tour by the heavy metal band Iron Maiden in support of their fifth album, "Powerslave", beginning in Warsaw, Poland on 9 August 1984 and ending in Irvine, California on 5 July 1985.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP] Oppenheim  Oppenheim () is a town in the Mainz-Bingen district of Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The town is a well-known wine center, being the home of the German Winegrowing Museum, and is particularly known for the wines from the Oppenheimer Krötenbrunnen vineyards.
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP] Adolf Kober Adolf Kober (3 September 1879 in Beuthen, Oberschlesien; - 30 December 1958 in New York City) was a rabbi and a historian. Kober studied History, Philosophy and Oriental Languages at the University of Breslau (Wrocław) and received a PhD there in 1903 with a thesis on the medieval history of the Jews in Cologne. He attended the Jewish Theological Seminary in Breslau, receiving his rabbinical diploma from Israel Lewi in 1907. From 1906 to 1908 he acted as substitute rabbi and religious instructor in the Cologne community. From 1908 to 1918 he was rabbi of the City and
What is Walter Köbel's occupation? [SEP] a sports hernia and underwent season-ending surgery. Kobel reached an injury settlement with the Eagles and was waived by the Philadelphia Eagles on August 28, 2007. Kobel signed a contract as a draft pick with Team Florida of the All-American Football League. Kobel signed with the New York Jets on June 9, 2009. He was waived on August 30. Craig Kobel Craig Kobel (born January 26, 1982) is a former American football linebacker. He was signed by the Utah Blaze as a free agent in 2006. He played college football at South Florida. Kobel has also been a member of
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] As of 6 September 2009
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP]  John Barnes (born 15 May 1932) is an English-born jazz saxophonist and clarinettist, who played New Orleans-styled jazz in his early career, but later also played saxophones in the mainstream style.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP]  John Barnes (October 12, 1929 &ndash; August 25, 2004) was an American middle-distance runner. He competed in the men's 800 metres at the 1952 Summer Olympics.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP]  John Charles Bryan Barnes MBE (born 7 November 1963) is a former professional football player and manager. He currently works as a commentator and pundit for ESPN and SuperSport. Initially a quick, skilful left winger, he moved to central midfield later in his career. Barnes won two league titles with Liverpool, with whom he also won two cup finals at Wembley. He was also an FA Cup runner-up with Watford, Liverpool and Newcastle United. Barnes earned 79 international caps for England. Barnes was born and initially raised in Jamaica as the son of a military officer from Trinidad and Tobago and a Jamaican mother. He moved to London, England with his family when he was 12 years old.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP]  John Barnes (born 1 June 1969) is a retired Australian rules footballer in the Australian Football League.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] John Barnes  John Charles Bryan Barnes MBE (born 7 November 1963) is a former professional football player and manager. He currently works as an author, commentator and pundit for ESPN and SuperSport. Initially a quick, skilful left winger, he moved to central midfield later in his career. Barnes won two league titles with Liverpool, with whom he also won two cup finals at Wembley. He was also an FA Cup runner-up with Watford, Liverpool and Newcastle United. Barnes earned 79 international caps for England.  Barnes was born and initially raised in Jamaica as the son of a military officer from Trinidad and Tobago and a Jamaican mother. He moved to London, England with his family when he was 12 years old. Barnes joined Watford aged 17 in 1981 before playing 296 competitive games for them scoring 85 goals. He was a Watford 1984 FA Cup Final runner-up. He debuted for England in 1983 and in 1987 joined Liverpool for £900,000. In his 10 seasons there Liverpool won the then top-flight First Division twice and the FA Cup twice. He scored 106 goals in 403 matches. By the time of his last cap in 1995, he had more caps than any other black England player. After two years at Newcastle United, he ended his playing career at Charlton Athletic in 1999.  Barnes was the PFA Players' Player of the Year once (in 1987–88) and the Football Writers' Association Footballer of the Year twice (in 1987–88 and 1989–90). In the run-up to England's 1990 FIFA World Cup campaign he recorded a rap for the official team song, New Order's "World in Motion". In 2005, he was inducted into the English Football Hall of Fame. In 2006, in a poll of Liverpool fans' favourite players, Barnes came fifth; a year later, "FourFourTwo" magazine named him Liverpool's best all time player. In 2016, "The Times" readers voted him England's greatest ever left-footed player.   Barnes had 8 months as Celtic head coach when his former Liverpool manager Kenny Dalglish was director of football. Barnes has since managed the Jamaica national team in 2008–09 and English club Tranmere Rovers for four months in 2009.  Barnes has published two books, including "John Barnes: The Autobiography" (1999), which was followed by "The Uncomfortable Truth About Racism" (2021); the latter was met with a largely positive reception. In 2022, he returned to Liverpool as an official Club Ambassador.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] John Barnes (author)  John Barnes (born 1957 in Angola, Indiana) is an American science fiction author.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] John Barnes Chance  John Barnes Chance (November 20, 1932 – August 16, 1972) was an American composer. Chance studied composition with Clifton Williams at the University of Texas, Austin, and is best known for his concert band works, which include "Variations on a Korean Folk Song", "Incantation and Dance", and "Blue Lake Overture".
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] John Barnes (musician)  John Barnes (born 15 May 1932) is an English-born jazz saxophonist and clarinettist, who played New Orleans-styled jazz in his early career, but later also played saxophones in the mainstream style.
What is John Barnes's occupation? [SEP] John Barnes Wells  John Barnes "Jack" Wells (October 17, 1880 – August 8, 1935), was an American composer and singer. He sang as a tenor. He was once described as "one of the best known concert singers in New York." He was a popular singer and was featured on many 78-rpm recordings released in the early 1900s. He starred in the 1903 musical theater production of "The Wizard of Oz".
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP]  Adil Entered elementary, middle and high Schools in Atbara, Sudan. He studied later at the Faculty of Law at Cairo University, Khartoum Branch (Now Neelain University) in Khartoum, Sudan in the years  1985-1988. In Poland he studied Polish Language and Literature at University of Łódź in the academic year 1988-1989. He studied journalism and political science at the faculty of  Journalism and Political Science at the University of Warsaw (1989-2004) and at Warsaw School of Journalism (2005-2007). Adil has taken many courses and training (1997–Present) and gained several certificates in the fields of IT, Finance, Services and Leadership
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP]  Adil Omar (born 17 May 1991) is a recording artist, rapper, record producer, singer and songwriter from Islamabad, Pakistan. He released his debut album and film, Transcendence, on 8 July 2018. In addition to being a solo artist, he is also involved in the songwriting and production for other artists.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP]  During his professional career, Shamsher-ul-Hyderi held a variety of jobs. His various employers included: the Pakistan Public Works Department (as clerk), the Cooperative Bank in Badin (as manager), the Sindhi Adabi Board (as clerk, and in 1993 Secretary), Mehran magazine (as assistant editor), Naee Zindagi Monthly magazine (as editor), the National Shipping Corporation (as publishing manager), Daily Mehran newspaper (as editor), and Daily Hilal Pakistan newspaper (as editor).
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP]  Adil worked professionally in the areas of education, journalism, media, publishing, translation, business services and NGOs. He worked while studying as porter and bar-mate (1990-1997) later as teacher (1997-1999). He was a co-founder, member of the Board and General Director of Omda International LTD, (1999-2003). He worked as Vice-Chairman of the Board and General Director of OIA Ltd (2003- 2005). Adil run his own private business and he is the Owner and General Director of Amalia Services (2005 – present). He worked also as Analyst and an Economic Adviser on Poland and Central and Eastern Europe and the Baltic States for several Arabic embassies in Poland (2005–present). He was a member of the Board of Supervisors of Mayfair Capital Polska S.A., HÖHER S.A, Mayfair Business Services S.A, and he is now a member of the Board of Supervisors of the Accounting Office  ECONOM Ltd. and CEO of the Harambi Foundation.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP]  Dudu was born on 10 November 1957. He has a B.A., M.A., and law degree.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP] Adil Shamoo  Adil E. Shamoo (born August 1, 1941) is an Iraqi biochemist with an interest in biomedical ethics and foreign policy. He is currently a professor at the Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology at the University of Maryland.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP] Stanley Pons  Bobby Stanley Pons (born August 23, 1943) is an American electrochemist known for his work with Martin Fleischmann on cold fusion in the 1980s and 1990s.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP] Martin Fleischmann  Martin Fleischmann FRS (29 March 1927 – 3 August 2012) was a British chemist who worked in electrochemistry.<ref name = "CSM2012">
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP] Tony LaMadrid  Antonio "Tony" LaMadrid (born 1968; died 1991) was both a patient and research subject at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) Medical Center. He is believed to have committed suicide by jumping off the roof of a nine-story building. His death led to a federal investigation by the Office for Human Research Protections/Office of Protection from Research Risks that concluded UCLA had violated aspects of informed consent. The research subjects were not told how severe their possible relapses might be.  LaMadrid had schizophrenia and the research study he was involved in was titled, "Developmental Processes in Schizophrenic Disorders". The study began in 1983 and was run by psychologist Keith H. Nuechterlein, and psychiatrist Michael Gitlin.
What is Adil Shamoo's occupation? [SEP] List of Iraqis  This list of Iraqis includes people who were born in Iraq and people who are of Iraqi ancestry, who are significantly notable for their life and/or work.             camp in Israel to the Iraqi Jewish immigrants Bertha and Gabriel Gavriel.   Ahmad Harhash born July 20 2001 syrian Canadian Actor
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP]  Patrick James Mulvany (2 July 1871 – 16 May 1951) was an Irish politician and farmer. He was first elected to Dáil Éireann at the 1923 general election as a Farmers' Party Teachta Dála (TD) for the Meath constituency. He did not contest the June 1927 general election.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP]  Attribution
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP]  Mulvany was born in Diralagh, County Meath, Ireland c. 1839 to tenant farmers, Francis Lee and Thomas Mulvany. When he immigrated to New York City in 1851 at the age of 12, he was old enough to have witnessed and grasped the horrors of the Irish Famine. He worked as a tow boy on the Erie Canal and came to the attention of Professor Juan Wandersford at the National Academy of Design in New York City. In 1859 Mulvany enrolled in classes there. before he went to Washington, D.C. to work for Mathew Brady by 1863. Mulvany never served in the army but may have worked as a sketch artist for a Chicago newspaper. Mulvany's later Civil War paintings were praised for their realism - paintings such as Sheridan’s Ride at Winchester, 1896 McPherson and Revenge, 1889, Battle of Shiloh and The Death of General Mulligan.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP]  Mulvany wrote for The Citizen on Irish artists. During the last years of his life Mulvany was employed in editing the Life of James Gandon. The book was published in 1846. It was based on papers of James Gandon the younger, and Maurice James Craig also edited the work.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP]  Mulvany qualified through practical experience as an engineer. He learned technical drawing with an architect and joined the Irish Survey Office at the age of 20 years as a surveyor. In 1836 he became an employee of the Board of Public Works in Ireland. Mulvany was successively responsible for planning of waterways and the modernization of the fishing industry, but especially for the purpose of drainage of large areas of agricultural exploitation. During the Great Irish Famine 1845 - 1849 the projects of the Board of Works were simultaneously job creation schemes for the suffering rural population and in 1853, the work was stopped due to high costs, and Mulvany quit the civil service. In 1851 published his paper which introduced the rational method in Hydrology. This is one of the most important result for the hydrological planning of drainage systems even today.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP] Paddy Mulvany  Patrick F. Mulvany (born 1940) is an Irish former Gaelic footballer who played for club side Skryne and at inter-county level with the Meath senior football team. He usually lined out as a right corner-forward.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP] Kate Mulvany  Kate Mulvany (born 24 February 1977) is an Australian actress, playwright and screenwriter. She works in theatre, television and film, with roles in "Hunters" (2020), "The Great Gatsby" (2013), "Griff the Invisible" (2010) and "The Final Winter" (2007). She has played lead roles with Australian theatre companies as well as appearing on television and in film. In 2004 she won the Philip Parsons Young Playwrights Award for "The Seed". In 2017, she won the Helpmann Award for Best Female Actor in a Play for her role in "Richard 3".
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP] Elle Mulvaney  Elle Jade Mulvaney (born 1 October 2002)
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP] John Mulvaney  Derek John Mulvaney (26 October 1925 – 21 September 2016), known as John Mulvaney and D. J. Mulvaney, was an Australian archaeologist. He was the first qualified archaeologist to focus his work on Australia.
What is Patrick Mulvany's occupation? [SEP] John D'Alton  John Francis Cardinal D'Alton (11 October 1882 – 1 February 1963) was an Irish Cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church who served as Archbishop of Armagh and thus Primate of All Ireland from 1946 until his death. He was elevated to the cardinalate in 1953.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP] S. Michele Arcangelo, archangel in Jewish, Christian, and Islamic teachings ; Andrea di Cione Arcangelo (1308–1368), Italian painter, sculptor, and architect active in Florence ; Antonio di Arcangelo, Italian painter, active in Florence in a Renaissance style, between 1520 and 1538 ; Arcangelo Califano (1730–1750), baroque composer and cellist ; Arcangelo Placenza da Calatafimi, (1390–1460) venerated Italian Franciscan friar and preacher ; Arcangelo Canetoli (1460–1513), venerated Catholic priest ; Arcangelo Cascieri (1902–1997), influential sculptor, major figure in Boston Architectural College in Boston, Massachusetts ; Arcangelo di Cola (active 1416-1429) Italian late-Gothic painter ; Arcangelo Corelli (1653–1713), Italian violinist and composer of Baroque music ; Arcangelo Ghisleri (1855–1938), geographer who created numerous maps of Africa ; Arcangelo Guglielmelli (c. 1650–1723), Italian
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]  Arcangelo Guglielmelli (c. 1650—1723) was an Italian architect and painter, active in his native Naples, Italy, in a late-Baroque style. He was involved in the building and reconstruction of churches, many of which had been damaged by the earthquakes of 1688 and 1694.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]  helped restore the facade of the church of San Paolo Maggiore. From 1677 onward, Arcangelo had worked for the Jesuits in the church of Gesù Nuovo, but only after 1688, did he succeed as main architect from Dionisio Lazzari (who had taken the post from Fanzago in 1678). He rebuilt, between 1692 and 1693, the fallen dome (1629–35) of Giuseppe Valeriano, but Arcangelo's dome also developed flaws, and was demolished in 1775. Arcangelo also restored the chapels of St Francis Xavier and St Ignatius, and with Bartolomeo and Pietro Ghetti overlaid a rich baroque decoration into the Renaissance style entry portal.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]  Ildebrando D'Arcangelo (born 14 December 1969) is an Italian opera singer. He has been called a bass-baritone, though he prefers the term basso cantabile.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]  Arcangelo Sannicandro (born 9 July 1943) is an Italian politician from the Left Ecology Freedom. As of 2014 he serves as member of the Chamber of Deputies representing Apulia.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP] Arcangelo Ghisleri  Arcangelo Ghisleri (5 September 1855 – 19 August 1938) was an Italian geographer, writer, and Socialist politician.  Ghisleri was born in the "comune" of Persico Dosimo (in today's province of Cremona).  A well known geographer by profession, he created numerous maps of Africa. As a journalist, he was part of a wave of philosophically positivist and politically progressive writers who carried the mantle of Mazzini's republican nationalism in the late 19th century. From 1887 to 1890 he founded and edited the review 'Cuore e Critica' which, together with the journals "La rivista repubblicana" and "L'educazione politica", was important in defining the republican ideology of the times. Politically, Ghisleri was close to the revolutionary movements of his time: in 1895 he was one of the founders of the Italian Republican Party.  His friend and fellow radical and Freemason Filippo Turati took over the journal in 1891 and renamed it Critica Sociale, moving it quickly into a socialist direction. In 1867, Ghisleri founded the "Società di Liberi Pensatori" (Society of the Free Thinkers) in Cremona, on behalf of the Grand Master Giuseppe Garibaldi, together with Mauro Macchi and Ausonio Franchi. In 1879, he was a co-founder of the Masonic Lodge "Pontida" in Bergamo that he joyned until 1906 when he was initiated to the regular lodge "Carlo Cattaneo" in Milan.  Ghisleri was not a systematic ideologist: a systematic version of his republican ideology is best exemplified in the work of Giovanni Conti.  Ghisleri died in Bergamo in 1938.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP] Filippo Turati  Filippo Turati (; 26 November 1857 – 29 March 1932) was an Italian sociologist, criminologist, poet and socialist politician.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP] Napoleone Colajanni  Napoleone Colajanni (Castrogiovanni, 27 April 1847 – Castrogiovanni, 2 September 1921) was an Italian writer, journalist, criminologist, socialist and politician. In the 1880s he abandoned republicanism for socialism, and became Italy's leading theoretical writer on the issue for a time. He has been called the father of Sicilian socialism. Due to the Socialist party's discourse of Marxist class struggle, he reverted in 1894 to his original republicanism. Colajanni was an ardent critic of the Lombrosian school in criminology. In 1890 he was elected in the national Italian Chamber of Deputies and was re-elected in all subsequent parliaments until his death in September 1921.
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]
What is Arcangelo Ghisleri's occupation? [SEP]
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]  Born on February 7, 1950, in Kibbutz Misgav-Am, Becher lived most of his life in Netanya. He earned a bachelor's degree from Tel Aviv University (psychology and political science), a master's degree in political science from the University of Haifa and the Israeli National Defense College.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]  In 1991, she began studying law at Tel Aviv University. After completing her bachelor's degree with honours, the family left for the Netherlands. She completed her master's degree there, specializing in family law. In 2002, after six years in the Netherlands, the family returned to Israel. Mor-Godor is a lawyer in Tel Aviv, working on her doctorate and appearing every week on the morning show of Channel 10, where she gives advice on family law.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]  Giora Schmidt (pronounced ghee-OH-rah) is an American/Israeli violinist.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]  Giora Eiland (גיורא איילנד; born 1952 in moshav Kfar Hess) is Major General (ret.) Israel Defense Forces. Eiland is a former head of the Israeli National Security Council. After his retirement from the public sector, he was a senior research associate at the Institute for National Security Studies (INSS). Eiland is a frequent commentator and contributor on international security matters on local and foreign media. In 2007 he founded a consulting company of national security and strategic services for governments and multinational organizations. He holds an M.B.A. and B.A. in economics from Bar Ilan University.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]   Giora Feidman (גיורא פיידמן; born 25 March 1936) is an Argentine-born Israeli clarinetist who specializes in klezmer music.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP] Waiting for Godik  Waiting for Godik is a 2007 documentary written and directed by Ari Davidovich, chronicalling the rise and fall of the Israeli theater producer and impresario Giora Godik.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP] Władysław Godik  Władysław Godik (Willy Godik, Godick, Godnick, Vladislav Godik) (April 1, 1892 – December 18, 1952) was a Polish Jewish singer, actor and director in Polish, Russian, and Yiddish theatre. Born in Zlatopil near Kyiv, Ukraine, he moved with his family to Warsaw, where he did two semesters in the veterinarian institute.  He acted in the dramatic section of Hazemir and in 1911 he began acting professionally at Gershanovitsh in Vitebsk, playing Baynushl in "Pintele Yid". During the First World War he took part in Krutshinin's Russian operettas and later some German operettas. In 1909 he appeared in Radom in Tsharnetski's Polish Operetta troupe, and played in "Shulamis", then founded a Polish-language revue theater called Mirage. Half a year later he joined Zygmunt Turkow and Ester Rachel Kamińska's traveling troupe. He played for four years at the Central Theater and spent one year in Vilna with Morevski.<ref name=zalmen />  Between 1920-1928 he appeared at the Habima Theatre. He became renowned as a conferencier (Master of Ceremonies). In 1918 he returned to Poland and in 1925 he convinced his wife, Ola Lilith, to join him in founding the "Yiddish Kleynkunst Theater Azazel". He was conferencier of the combined Azazel - Sambatiyon theater revue in 1928 and performed with the Warsaw Yiddish Art Theater (Varshever Yidisher Kunst-teater; VYKT). In 1931 he and Lilith debuted in America, in recitals and in "The Girl from Warsaw". He returned with Lilith to Poland; she returned to America in 1935. In 1939 he fled the Nazis by entering the Soviet Union through Białystok.  In 1942 Godik joined the Red Army. He was wounded in battle; after recovering he performed in Moscow, after 1944 in the Polish Army Theatre in Lodz; from 1946 until his death he acted at the Polish Theatre in Warsaw, where he died in 1952.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP] Reuven Shefer  Reuven Shefer (; June 7, 1925 – March 22, 2011) was an Israeli theater and film actor.
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP]
What is Giora Godik's occupation? [SEP] Fiddler on the Roof  Fiddler on the Roof is a musical with music by Jerry Bock, lyrics by Sheldon Harnick, and book by Joseph Stein, set in the Pale of Settlement of Imperial Russia in or around 1905. It is based on "Tevye and his Daughters" (or "Tevye the Dairyman") and other tales by Sholem Aleichem. The story centers on Tevye, a milkman in the village of Anatevka, who attempts to maintain his Jewish religious and cultural traditions as outside influences encroach upon his family's lives. He must cope with the strong-willed actions of his three older daughters who wish to marry for love; their choices of husbands are successively less palatable for Tevye. An edict of the tsar eventually evicts the Jews from their village.  The original Broadway production of the show, which opened in 1964, had the first musical theatre run in history to surpass 3,000 performances. "Fiddler" held the record for the longest-running Broadway musical for almost 10 years until "Grease" surpassed its run. The production was extraordinarily profitable and highly acclaimed. It won nine Tony Awards, including best musical, score, book, direction and choreography. It spawned five Broadway revivals and a highly successful 1971 film adaptation and has enjoyed enduring international popularity. It has also been a popular choice for school and community productions.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP]  John Challis (1907–1974) was an American builder of harpsichords and clavichords, at one time the only such maker of harpsichords in the United States. His father Charles was a jeweler and watchmaker who moved his family from South Lyon, Michigan to Ypsilanti, Michigan in 1919. John attended Michigan Normal College (now Eastern Michigan University), where his interest in constructing keyboard instruments emerged. He spent four years apprenticing with Arnold Dolmetsch in England, returning in 1930, when he set himself up building instruments in a two-story space above a dress shop in Ypsilanti. At that time he was the only harpsichord maker in America. He later moved to Detroit. When his house was condemned to build the Chrysler Freeway, he moved to New York City. As he was the son of a
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP]  Roger Leonard Alfred Challis (born 3 August 1943) is an English former professional footballer of the 1960s. He played professionally for Gillingham and Crewe Alexandra and made a total of 13 appearances in the Football League.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP]  Challis was born in England, the son of John Henry Challis, sergeant in the 9th Regiment, and his first wife. He was educated at several schools and trained as a clerk. He then migrated to Sydney, New South Wales, arriving on the Pyramis on 9 May 1829 as a steerage passenger. He was employed by Marsden and Flower, merchants. In 1842 the firm was reorganized under the name of Flower, Salting and Company, when Challis was admitted as a junior partner. The business dealt in wool, whale oil other commodities and became very prosperous. He acquired several properties, including a large holding at Potts Point, pastoral licenses of over 12,000 sq. miles (31,080 km²) in southern New South Wales, more than 3,500 cattle and 11,000 sheep. In 1855 he sold his business interests and returned to England. Returning to Europe, Challis spent much of his time travelling.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP]   Donald Challis (born 26 June 1929) is a British sound and dubbing editor for many critically acclaimed films, including The Three Musketeers (1973 live-action film), A Taste of Honey (film) and Help! (film). His most famous contribution was to Oh! What a Lovely War as the sound editor, winning him a BAFTA Film Award alongside Simon Kaye for Best Film Soundtrack in 1970.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP]  Challis was a Tasmanian and started his career at Launceston, where he was a premiership player in 1909 and regular NTFA representative at the State Championships. He also represented Tasmania at the 1911 Adelaide Carnival, participating in their famous win over Western Australia. During this time he played mainly as a half forward or rover but when he was lured to Carlton in 1912 he soon established himself as a wingman. It was in that position that he starred in Carlton's 1915 premiership team. He almost missed out on the chance to win a premiership as he had attempted to join the army at the beginning of the season, only to be refused because his toes overlapped.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP] Roger Lloyd-Pack  Roger Lloyd-Pack (8 February 1944 – 15 January 2014) was an English actor. He is best known for playing Trigger in "Only Fools and Horses" from 1981 to 2003, and Owen Newitt in "The Vicar of Dibley" from 1994 to 2007. He later starred as Tom in "The Old Guys" with Clive Swift. He is also well known for the role of Barty Crouch Sr. in "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire" and for his appearances in "Doctor Who" as John Lumic in the episodes "Rise of the Cybermen" and "The Age of Steel". He was sometimes credited without the hyphen in his surname. He died in 2014 from pancreatic cancer.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP] Mount Rushmore  Mount Rushmore National Memorial is a national memorial centered on a colossal sculpture carved into the granite face of Mount Rushmore (Lakota: "Tȟuŋkášila Šákpe", or Six Grandfathers) in the Black Hills near Keystone, South Dakota, United States. Sculptor Gutzon Borglum created the sculpture's design and oversaw the project's execution from 1927 to 1941 with the help of his son, Lincoln Borglum. The sculpture features the heads of four United States Presidents recommended by Borglum: George Washington (1732–1799), Thomas Jefferson (1743–1826), Theodore Roosevelt (1858–1919) and Abraham Lincoln (1809–1865). The four presidents were chosen to represent the nation's birth, growth, development and preservation, respectively. The memorial park covers  and the mountain itself has an elevation of above sea level.  The sculptor and tribal representatives settled on Mount Rushmore, which also has the advantage of facing southeast for maximum sun exposure. Doane Robinson wanted it to feature American West heroes, such as Lewis and Clark, their expedition guide Sacagawea, Oglala Lakota chief Red Cloud, Buffalo Bill Cody, and Oglala Lakota chief Crazy Horse. Borglum believed that the sculpture should have broader appeal and chose the four presidents.  Peter Norbeck, U.S. senator from South Dakota, sponsored the project and secured federal funding. Construction began in 1927 and the presidents' faces were completed between 1934 and 1939. After Gutzon Borglum died in March 1941, his son Lincoln took over as leader of the construction project. Each president was originally to be depicted from head to waist, but lack of funding forced construction to end on October 31, 1941.  Sometimes referred to as the "Shrine of Democracy", Mount Rushmore attracts more than two million visitors annually.<ref name="tourismstat" />
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Allom  Thomas Allom (13 March 1804 – 21 October 1872) was an English architect, artist, and topographical illustrator. He was a founding member of what became the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA). He designed many buildings in London, including the Church of St Peter's and parts of the elegant Ladbroke Estate in Notting Hill. He also worked with Sir Charles Barry on numerous projects, most notably the Houses of Parliament, and is also known for his numerous topographical works, such as "Constantinople and the Scenery of the Seven Churches of Asia Minor", published in 1838, and "China Illustrated", published in 1845.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP] Stella Gibbons  Stella Dorothea Gibbons (5 January 1902 – 19 December 1989) was an English writer, journalist, and poet. She established her reputation with her first novel, "Cold Comfort Farm" (1932) which has been reprinted many times. Although she was active as a writer for half a century, none of her later 22 novels or other literary works—which included a sequel to "Cold Comfort Farm"—achieved the same critical or popular success. Much of her work was long out of print before a modest revival in the 21st century.  The daughter of a London medical doctor, Gibbons had a turbulent and often unhappy childhood. After an indifferent school career she trained as a journalist, and worked as a reporter and features writer, mainly for the "Evening Standard" and "The Lady". Her first book, published in 1930, was a collection of poems which was well received, and through her life she considered herself primarily a poet rather than a novelist. After "Cold Comfort Farm", a satire on the genre of rural-themed "loam and lovechild" novels popular in the late 1920s, most of Gibbons's novels were based within the middle-class suburban world with which she was familiar.  Gibbons became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature in 1950. Her style has been praised by critics for its charm, barbed humour and descriptive skill, and has led to comparison with Jane Austen. The success of "Cold Comfort Farm" dominated her career, and she grew to resent her identification with the book to the exclusion of the rest of her output. Widely regarded as a one-work novelist, she and her works have not been accepted into the canon of English literature—partly, other writers have suggested, because of her detachment from the literary world and her tendency to mock it.
What is Thomas Challis's occupation? [SEP] Tom Atkins (actor)  Tom Atkins (born November 13, 1935) is an American actor. He is known for his work in the horror and thriller film genres, having worked with writers and directors such as Shane Black, William Peter Blatty, John Carpenter, Fred Dekker, Richard Donner, Stephen King, and George A. Romero. He is also a familiar face to mainstream viewers, often playing police officers and tough authority figures and was best known for his role as Lt. Alex Diel in "The Rockford Files" (1974–1977).  Atkins has appeared in numerous films including "The Fog" (1980), "The Ninth Configuration" (1980), "Escape from New York" (1981), "Creepshow" (1982), "" (1982), "Night of the Creeps" (1986), "Lethal Weapon" (1987), "Maniac Cop" (1988), "Two Evil Eyes" (1990), "Bob Roberts" (1992), "Striking Distance" (1993), "My Bloody Valentine 3D" (2009), "Drive Angry" (2011), "Encounter" (2018), "Trick" (2019) and the science fiction short film "Polybius" (2020) where he portrays the role of Sheriff Atkins.  Atkins has also appeared in numerous television series and films such as "Hawaii Five-O" (1975), "" (1990), "What She Doesn't Know" (1992), "Walker, Texas Ranger" (1993), "Fortune Hunter" (1994), "" (1996), "" (1998), "Oz" (2003), "" (2003), "The Jury" (2004), "Horror's Hollowed Grounds" (2016) and "The Last-Drive In with Joe Bob Briggs" (2019).
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Christopher Butson, Church of Ireland bishop ; Christopher Butson (priest), Irish Anglican priest ; Matthew Butson, New Zealand Paralympic alpine skier ; Richard Butson, Canadian surgeon Butson is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP]  Hasson was an F/A-18 aircraft mechanic in the Marine Corps from 1988 to 1993, achieving the rank of corporal. He was then on active duty with the Army National Guard for approximately two years. He served with the Virginia Army National Guard as an infantryman with Alpha Company, 1st Battalion, 183rd Infantry Regiment. In September 1995, Hasson transferred to the Arizona Army National Guard and left in March 1996, exiting with the same rank as when he joined. He served in the Coast Guard for more than twenty years, initially as an Electronics Technician. At the time of his arrest, Hasson was an acquisitions officer for the Coast Guard's National Security Cutter program at Coast Guard Headquarters, having served in that post since June 2016.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP]  The Ven.  James Strange Butson (10 February 1778 – 29 January 1845) was an Irish Anglican priest. Butson was the son of Bishop Christopher Butson. He was educated at Winchester College and New College, Oxford. He was the Prebendary of Kilconnell in Clonfert Cathedral from 1809 until 1812; and Archdeacon of Clonfert from 1812 until his death. His son was himself Archdeacon of Clonfert, then Dean of Kilmacduagh.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP]  Butson was born in Hankow, China of British parents on 24 October 1922. He was educated in England at Leighton Park School and then at the University of Cambridge and University College Hospital, graduating MB, BChir in 1945. He served in the Home Guard and a Light Rescue Squad in London during the Blitz and as a Medical Officer with the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey in the Antarctic from 1946 to 1948. During his year in Antarctica, the expedition found a route for dog teams over the 5,000-foot high mountains of the Grahamland Peninsula and surveyed the last thousand miles of the most inaccessible coastline of the world. For Bravery and Distinguished Service in Antarctica, Butson was awarded
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP]  Christopher Jon Hewison (born October 6, 1979) was an English cricketer. Born in Gateshead, Tyne and Wear, he was a right-handed batsman and a right-arm medium-pace bowler. He also played occasional as a wicket-keeper. He played first-class and List A cricket for Nottinghamshire, and Durham CB during his four-year first-class career. Most recently, he has played Minor Counties Cricket for Northumberland.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Stephen Sandes  Stephen Creagh Sandes (1778-1842) was a Church of Ireland bishop in the Nineteenth century.  A Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin, he was ordained in 1807. He was consecrated Bishop of Killaloe, Kilfenora, Clonfert and Kilmacduagh on 12 June 1836 and translated to Cashel, Emly, Waterford and Lismore in February 1839.  He died on 13 November 1842.  He was the son of William Sandes and Margaret Creagh. He was born at Sallow Glen, near Tarbert, County Kerry, where the Sandes family had been settled for several generations. He married Mary Anne Dickson, daughter of Samuel Dickson of County Limerick, and they had four children.  Among his students at Trinity College was the eminent barrister and author Gerald Fitzgibbon, who remembered with gratitude that it was Sandes who advised him, despite his lack of money or influential connections (Fitzgibbon was a small farmer's son), to persist in a career in the law.  A much younger cousin, who was also named Stephen Creagh Sandes, was the father of Elise Sandes, founder of a welfare movement for soldiers which survives today.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Christopher R. Johnson  Christopher Ray Johnson (born January 17, 1960 in Kansas City, Kansas) is an American computer scientist. He is a Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at the University of Utah, and founding director of the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute (SCI). His research interests are in the areas of scientific computing and scientific visualization.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Shaw's and Star Market  Shaw's and Star Market are two American supermarket chains under united management based in West Bridgewater, Massachusetts, employing about 30,000 associates in 150 total stores; 129 stores are operated under the Shaw's banner in Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont, while Star Market operates 21 stores in Massachusetts, most of which are in or near Boston. Until 2010, Shaw's operated stores in all six New England states, and as of 2021 Shaw's remained the only supermarket chain with stores in five of the six, after it sold its Connecticut operations. The chain's largest competitors are Hannaford, Market Basket, Price Chopper, Roche Bros., Wegmans, and Stop & Shop. Star Market is a companion store to Shaw's, Shaw's having purchased the competing chain in 1999.  Shaw's and Star Market are wholly owned subsidiaries of the Boise, Idaho–based Albertsons. The combined chain has the largest base of stores that operate in New England, but is the third-largest New England-based grocer behind Quincy, Massachusetts-based Stop & Shop and Scarborough, Maine-based Hannaford; Hannaford operates stores in upstate New York, while Stop & Shop's operations extend through downstate New York and into New Jersey; only Shaw's does business solely in New England.  As of July 5, 2013, Shaw's and Star Market no longer use loyalty cards at their stores, as a way to compete with other local stores that do not have them. However, like most of Albertsons' chains, Shaw's and Star Market participate in the "just for U" rewards program, which does not use a physical card.
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Kristin Chenoweth  Kristin Dawn Chenoweth (; born Kristi Dawn Chenoweth; July 24, 1968) is an American actress and singer, with credits in musical theatre, film, and television. In 1999, she won a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress in a Musical for her performance as Sally Brown in "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" on Broadway. In 2003, Chenoweth received a second Tony Award nomination for originating the role of Glinda in the musical "Wicked". Her television roles include Annabeth Schott in NBC's "The West Wing" and Olive Snook on the ABC comedy drama "Pushing Daisies", for which she won a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in 2009. She also starred in the ABC TV series "GCB" in 2012, played Lavinia in "Trial & Error" in 2018 and was the antagonist, Mildred Layton, in the Apple TV+ musical comedy "Schmigadoon!" (2021).  Chenoweth sang gospel music as a child in Oklahoma and studied opera before deciding to pursue a career in musical theatre. In 1997, she made her Broadway debut in "Steel Pier", winning a Theatre World Award, before appearing in "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" and "Wicked". Her other Broadway roles were in "The Apple Tree" in 2006, "Promises, Promises" in 2010 and "On the Twentieth Century" in 2015, for which she received another Tony Award nomination. She has also appeared in five City Center Encores!, Off-Broadway and regional theatre productions.  Chenoweth had her own sitcom, "Kristin", in 2001, and has guest-starred on many shows, including "Sesame Street" and "Glee", for which she was nominated for Emmy Awards in 2010 and 2011. In films, she has played mostly character roles, such as in "Bewitched" (2005), "The Pink Panther" (2006) and "RV" (2006). She has played roles in made-for-TV movies, such as "Descendants" (2015); done voice work in animated films such as "Rio 2" (2014) and "The Peanuts Movie" (2015) along with the animated TV series "Sit Down, Shut Up" and "BoJack Horseman"; hosted several award shows; and released several albums of songs, including "A Lovely Way to Spend Christmas" (2008), "Some Lessons Learned" (2011), "Coming Home" (2014), "The Art of Elegance" (2016) and "For the Girls" (2019). Chenoweth also wrote a 2009 memoir, "A Little Bit Wicked".
What is Christopher Butson's occupation? [SEP] Glitch (Australian TV series)  Glitch is an Australian television programme which premiered on 9 July 2015 on ABC. The series is set in the fictional country town of Yoorana, Victoria, and follows seven people who return from the dead in perfect health but with no memory. No one in the town knows why the deceased have returned. The series was created by Tony Ayres and Louise Fox. The first series was awarded Best Television Drama Series at the 2016 AACTA Awards. The series also won Most Outstanding Drama Series at the 2016 Logie Awards.  On 26 October 2015, ABC TV renewed the show for a second series of six episodes. The second series premiered on 14 September 2017 on ABC. Series two follows James and the Risen as they begin to unravel the mystery of how and why they are back, though their journey of reconciliation, romance, and revenge is soon disrupted by a new and even more lethal threat.   The first series was made available to stream on Netflix globally on 15 October 2016. Series 2 premiered on 28 November 2017 internationally on Netflix. The show concluded with the third season, which was announced via Facebook on 20 August 2018 and began filming on 17 September 2018. It premiered on 25 August 2019. Netflix globally released series 3 on 25 September 2019.
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP]  Rich Brightman (born April 17, 1990) is an American singer-songwriter. He was born in Bay Shore, New York and raised on Long Island. Rich started writing songs on guitar in his childhood bedroom on Long Island before after dropping on music theory classes at Bay Shore High School and started to learn audio and mix engineering the school's recording studio during study hall, lunch, and his after school hours. Rich's mother, Sherry Brightman, gifted him a MacBook Pro for his high school graduation. Rich saved his high school graduation money along with his summer job earnings to buy studio equipment of his own to start work on his debut self-titled album. Rich released his first single "Lighter Than Air" on August 7, 2009 later releasing his first full self-titled album Rich Brightman on July 23, 2010. Rich attended Salve Regina University while writing his second album "II" released November 29, 2013 featuring rock alternative/pop tracks. During 2014–2016 Rich worked on his third release "III" which was released on Christmas Eve 2016
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP]  Source:
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP]  Richman is a graduate of the General Honors Program at the University of Pennsylvania. He was a cadet in the Army ROTC, rose to the rank of captain on active duty and served two tours in the United States Army, including one in South Vietnam, for which he was awarded the Bronze Star. He also served in the earlier U.S. invasion and occupation of the Dominican Republic.
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP]  Richman is a certified PMP (Project Management Professional), consultant, and trainer. He has authored seven books on project management, including two college texts. Richman directed the Publications and Media Project Office that manages the creation of 8,000 printed, media, and web products a year in up to 185 languages. This included managing the projects for writing, editing, translation, production, printing, and international distribution in 105 offices worldwide.
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP]  Damon Rich (born 1975 in Creve Coeur, Missouri) is a Newark, New Jersey-based designer, urban planner, and visual artist known for investigating the politics of the built environment. He attended Deep Springs College and received a B.A. (1997) from Columbia College of Columbia University. His work looks at the shaping of the world through laws, finance, and politics. He explains his approach as follows: "My exhibitions function as a kind of case study or experiment; each begins with a group of investigators who know little about the subject at hand, acting as stand-ins for the general public." In 1997, Rich founded the Center for Urban Pedagogy
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP] Rich Brightman  Rich Brightman (born April 17, 1990) is an American singer-songwriter. He was born in Bay Shore, New York and raised on Long Island. Rich started writing songs on guitar in his childhood bedroom on Long Island before after dropping on music theory classes at Bay Shore High School and started to learn audio and mix engineering the school's recording studio during study hall, lunch, and his after school hours.  Rich's mother, Sherry Brightman, gifted him a MacBook Pro for his high school graduation. Rich saved his high school graduation money along with his summer job earnings to buy studio equipment of his own to start work on his debut self-titled album. Rich released his first single ""Lighter Than Air"" on August 7, 2009 later releasing his first full self-titled album Rich Brightman on July 23, 2010. Rich attended Salve Regina University while writing his second album ""II"" released November 29, 2013 featuring rock alternative/pop tracks. During 2014–2016 Rich worked on his third release "III" which was released on Christmas Eve 2016
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP] Andrew Lloyd Webber  Andrew Lloyd Webber, Baron Lloyd-Webber (born 22 March 1948), is an English composer and impresario of musical theatre. Several of his musicals have run for more than a decade both in the West End and on Broadway. He has composed 21 musicals, a song cycle, a set of variations, two film scores, and a Latin Requiem Mass.   Several of his songs have been widely recorded and were successful outside of their parent musicals, such as "Memory" from "Cats," "The Music of the Night" and "All I Ask of You" from "The Phantom of the Opera", "I Don't Know How to Love Him" from "Jesus Christ Superstar", "Don't Cry for Me Argentina" from "Evita", and "Any Dream Will Do" from "Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat." In 2001, "The New York Times" referred to him as "the most commercially successful composer in history".  He has received a number of awards, including a knighthood in 1992, followed by a peerage for services to the arts, six Tonys, three Grammys (as well as the Grammy Legend Award), an Academy Award, 14 Ivor Novello Awards, seven Olivier Awards, a Golden Globe, a Brit Award, the 2006 Kennedy Center Honors, the 2008 Classic Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to Music, and an Emmy Award. He is one of 17 people to have won an Oscar, an Emmy, a Grammy, and a Tony. He has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, is an inductee into the Songwriter's Hall of Fame, and is a fellow of the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors.  His company, the Really Useful Group, is one of the largest theatre operators in London. Producers in several parts of the UK have staged productions, including national tours, of the Lloyd Webber musicals under licence from the Really Useful Group. Lloyd Webber is also the president of the Arts Educational Schools, London, a performing arts school located in Chiswick, West London. He is involved in a number of charitable activities, including the Elton John AIDS Foundation, Nordoff Robbins, Prostate Cancer UK and War Child. In 1992, he started the Andrew Lloyd Webber Foundation which supports the arts, culture, and heritage of the UK. In 2014 he designed a "Cats"-themed Paddington Bear statue, which was auctioned to raise funds for the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children (NSPCC).
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP] Don Rich  Donald Eugene Ulrich (August 15, 1941 – July 17, 1974), best known by the stage name Don Rich, was an American country musician who helped develop the Bakersfield sound in the early 1960s. He was a noted guitarist and fiddler, and a member of The Buckaroos, the backing band of Don's best friend, country singer Buck Owens. Rich was killed in a motorcycle accident in 1974 at the age of 32.
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP] Andrea Bocelli  Andrea Bocelli (; born 22 September 1958) He was born visually impaired, with congenital glaucoma, and at the age of 12, Bocelli became completely blind, following a brain hemorrhage resulting from a football accident. After performing evenings in piano bars and competing in local singing contests, Bocelli signed his first recording contract with the Sugar Music label. He rose to fame in 1994, winning the 44th Sanremo Music Festival performing "Il mare calmo della sera".  Since 1994, Bocelli has recorded 15 solo studio albums of both pop and classical music, three greatest hits albums, and nine complete operas, selling over 75 million records worldwide. He has had success as a crossover performer, bringing classical music to the top of international pop charts. His album "Romanza" is one of the best-selling albums of all time, while "Sacred Arias" is the biggest selling classical album by any solo artist in history. "My Christmas" was the best-selling holiday album of 2009 and one of the best-selling holiday albums in the United States. The 2019 album "Sì" debuted at number one on the UK Albums Chart and US "Billboard" 200, becoming Bocelli's first number-one album in both countries. His song "Con te partirò", included on his second album "Bocelli", is one of the best-selling singles of all time. The track was licensed to feature in a series of television commercials for TIM in the late 1990s, which eventually became very popular in Italy.  In 1998, Bocelli was named one of "People" magazine's 50 Most Beautiful People. He duetted with Celine Dion on the song "The Prayer" for the animated film "Quest for Camelot", which won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song.<ref name="Decca"/> In 1999, he was nominated for Best New Artist at the Grammy Awards. He captured a listing in the "Guinness Book of World Records" with the release of his classical album "Sacred Arias", as he simultaneously held the top three positions on the US Classical Albums charts.<ref name="Decca"/>  Bocelli was made a Grand Officer of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 2006 and was honored with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on 2 March 2010 for his contribution to Live Theater and he was awarded a gold medal for Merit in Serbia in 2022. Singer Celine Dion has said that "if God would have a singing voice, he must sound a lot like Andrea Bocelli",
What is Rich Brightman's occupation? [SEP] Cliff Richard  Sir Cliff Richard (born Harry Rodger Webb; 14 October 1940) is an English singer who holds both British and Barbadian citizenship. He has total sales of over 21.5 million singles in the United Kingdom and is the third-top-selling artist in UK Singles Chart history, behind the Beatles and Elvis Presley.   Richard was originally marketed as a rebellious rock and roll singer in the style of Presley and Little Richard. With his backing group, the Shadows, he dominated the British popular music scene in the pre-Beatles period of the late 1950s to early 1960s. His 1958 hit single "Move It" is often described as Britain's first authentic rock and roll song. In the early 1960s, he had a prosperous screen career with films including "The Young Ones", "Summer Holiday" and "Wonderful Life" and his own television show at the BBC. Increased focus on his Christian faith and subsequent softening of his music led to a more middle-of-the-road image, and he sometimes ventured into contemporary Christian music.  In a career spanning nearly 65 years, Richard has amassed several gold and platinum discs and awards, including two Ivor Novello Awards and three Brit Awards. More than 130 of his singles, albums, and EPs have reached the UK Top 20, more than any other artist. Richard has had 67 UK top ten singles, the second highest total for an artist (behind Presley). He holds the record, with Presley, as the only act to make the UK singles charts in all of its first six decades (1950s–2000s). He has achieved 14 UK No. 1 singles, and is the only singer to have had a No. 1 single in the UK in each of five consecutive decades. He also had four UK Christmas No. 1 singles, two of which were as a solo artist; "Mistletoe and Wine" and "Saviour's Day".  Richard has sold more than 250 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling music artists of all time. He has never achieved the same popularity in the United States despite eight US Top 40 singles, including the million-selling "Devil Woman" and "We Don't Talk Anymore". In Canada, he had a successful period in the early 1960s, the late 1970s and early 1980s, with some releases certified gold and platinum. He has remained a popular music, film, and television personality at home in the UK as well as Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Northern Europe and Asia, and retains a following in other countries. When not touring, he divides his time between Barbados and Portugal. In 2019, he relocated to New York.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP]  Franz Seitz Sr. (14 April 1887 &ndash; 7 March 1952) was a German film director and screenwriter. He directed 59 films between 1920 and 1951. His son Franz Seitz Jr. was a film producer.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP]  Seitz was a native of Munich, Bavaria, son of Johann Baptist Seitz. He studied at the Munich Academy of Art under Joseph Schlotthauer and afterwards worked independently as a lithographer and engraver. In 1848 he took over the artistic direction of the satirical newspaper Leuchtkugeln. From 1855 he was the costume director of the Munich Hoftheater. In 1858 he was appointed professor at the Academy of Art. In 1869 he was made artistic director of the Court Theatre (Hofbühne) and director of scenery at the Residenz Theatre, Munich. In 1876 he retired and was made an honorary Member of the Academy of Art. Franz von Seitz was buried in the Alter Südfriedhof in Munich.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP]  Franz von Seitz, born Franz Seitz (31 December 1817 &ndash; 13 April 1883) was a German painter, lithographer, engraver and costume designer as well as an art teacher and theatre director.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP]  Franz Seitz Jr. (22 October 1921 &ndash; 19 January 2006) was a German film producer, screenwriter and film director. He produced 74 films between 1951 and 2006. He was a member of the jury at the 16th Berlin International Film Festival. His 1982 film Doctor Faustus was entered into the 13th Moscow International Film Festival where it won the Silver Prize. In 1983 he was a member of the jury at the 33rd Berlin International Film Festival. In 1991 his film Success was entered into the 41st Berlin International Film Festival. In 1997 he won the Berlinale Camera award at the 47th Berlin International Film Festival. His father, Franz Seitz Sr. was also a film director.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP]   Otto Seitz, was a 19th-century German painter; born 3 September 1846 in Munich. As a professor with the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, he was the mentor of many major artists.
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP] He died March 13, 1912, and was buried in the Old South Cemetery in Munich. Otto Seitz Otto Seitz, was a 19th-century German painter; born 3 September 1846 in Munich. As a professor with the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, he was the mentor of many major artists. His primary subjects were genre scenes, floral still life and landscapes. in works with titles such as: Some of his most famous works are small, sometimes even miniatures, for example, his "Faun and Nymph" (oil on wood) has the dimensions 9 cm x 8 cm (3.5 x 3.1 inches) and "Landscapes" (watercolor
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP] Franz Heinrich Zitz Dr. Franz Heinrich Zitz (November 18, 1803 in Mainz – April 30, 1877) was a prominent Mainz attorney and enjoyed much success with women due to his comeliness. He was a restless and at times dissolute man. On June 3, 1837, he married the writer Katharina Theresa Halein, not completely of his own free will, but under threat of suicide. They lived together two years and remained married for the rest of their lives. As a member of the Frankfurt parliament, Franz played a respected role on the far left, and as the head of the militia
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP] Gustav Seitz Gustav Seitz (11 September 1906 – 26 October 1969) was a German sculptor and artist. Seitz was born in the Neckarau quarter of Mannheim, the son of a plasterer. He attended school locally till 1921 and then embarked on a traineeship in his father's trade. In 1922 he visited the Kunsthalle (Modern and contemporary art museum) in Mannheim, and was moved to embark on two-year apprenticeship as a stonemason and sculptor across the river in Ludwigshafen with the sculptor August Dursy. He also attended drawing classes at the Mannheim Vocational College (""Gewerbeschule Mannheim""). After this, between 1924 and
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP] the Ravensbrück concentration camp, only to again return to Vienna when Nazi Germany eventually collapsed, in May 1945. Though now ill, Seitz served the newly established Social Democratic Party of Austria as its honorary chairman and a nominal National Council member until his death, at the age of 80. Karl Seitz Karl Josef Seitz (; 4 September 1869 – 3 February 1950) was an Austrian politician of the Social Democratic Workers' Party. He served as member of the Imperial Council, President of the National Council and Mayor of Vienna. Seitz was born in Vienna, the back then capital of the
What is Franz Seitz Sr.'s occupation? [SEP] Otto Seitz Otto Seitz, was a 19th-century German painter; born 3 September 1846 in Munich. As a professor with the Academy of Fine Arts, Munich, he was the mentor of many major artists. His primary subjects were genre scenes, floral still life and landscapes. in works with titles such as: Some of his most famous works are small, sometimes even miniatures, for example, his "Faun and Nymph" (oil on wood) has the dimensions 9 cm x 8 cm (3.5 x 3.1 inches) and "Landscapes" (watercolor / pencil on wood) had lateral dimensions of approximately 2 cm. (not quite 1 inch).
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP]  Frederick Dundas (14 June 1802 – 26 October 1872) was a British politician.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP]  Dundas was district commissioner of the Moshi area in Tanzania during the 1920s. In 1930 he founded the Kilimanjaro Native Cooperative Union. He popularised the area's coffee production, and was given the title Wasaoye-o-Wachagga (Elder of the Chagga). He noticed that, in Chagga society, care of the furrows was a prime social duty. If a furrow was damaged, even accidentally, one of the elders would sound a horn in the evening (which was known as the call to the furrows). The next morning, townspeople would leave their normal work and set about the business of repairing the damaged furrow. Dundas became very popular and respected during his stay at Moshi. When he left Moshi for the last time by train to Tanga and ship to Dar es Salaam, the Chagga reputedly hired a band to accompany him on board the ship and serenade him on his journey. As the boat sailed into Dar es Salaam harbour, the band apparently struck up God Save the King. Later on, Dundas was Governor of the Bahamas for eight years, to be replaced by the Duke of Windsor. Dundas then became Governor of Uganda. Dundas is buried in Kensal Green Cemetery.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP]  George Dundas (12 November 1819 – 18 March 1880) was a Scottish Tory politician and colonial administrator. Born in England, he was the eldest son of James Dundas, and resided in Dundas Castle. Dundas purchased a Second Lieutenantcy in the Rifle Brigade in 1839, serving in various places such as Bermuda and Nova Scotia. He was promoted First Lieutenant without purchase in 1842. In politics, he represented Linlithgowshire in the House of Commons from 1847 until his resignation in 1859. On 8 June 1859, Dundas was appointed Governor of Prince Edward Island, a position he kept until 22 October 1868. In 1875, Dundas was appointed Lieutenant Governor of Saint Vincent in the Caribbean. In 1879, he was created a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George. Governor Dundas died at Saint Vincent in 1880.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP]  Dundas was the son of the Hon. Charles Dundas, Member of Parliament for Malton, younger son of Thomas Dundas, 1st Baron Dundas. His mother was Lady Caroline, daughter of Aubrey Beauclerk, 5th Duke of St Albans.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP]  Frederick Middleton Dundas (March 26, 1885 &ndash; 1956 ) was a political figure in Saskatchewan. He represented Qu'Appelle-Wolseley from 1934 to 1944 and from 1948 to 1952 in the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan as a Liberal. He was born in Qu'Appelle, Saskatchewan, the son of Andrew Dundas and Janet Mitchell, both natives of Scotland. In 1911, he married Henrietta Henson. Dundas served as mayor of Sintaluta, Saskatchewan. He was defeated by Warden Burgess when he ran for reelection to the provincial assembly in 1944 but defeated Burgess in 1948.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP] Samuel Laing (science writer)  Samuel Laing (12 December 1812 – 6 August 1897) was a British railway administrator, politician, and writer on science and religion during the Victorian era.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP] Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville  Henry Dundas, 1st Viscount Melville, PC, FRSE (28 April 1742 – 28 May 1811), styled as Lord Melville from 1802, was the trusted lieutenant of British Prime Minister William Pitt and the most powerful politician in Scotland in the late 18th century.  Dundas was instrumental in the encouragement of the Scottish Enlightenment, in the prosecution of the war against France, and in the expansion of British influence in India. Prime Minister Pitt appointed him Lord of Trade (1784–1786), Home Secretary (1791–1794), President of the Board of Control for Indian Affairs (1793–1801), Secretary at War (1794–1801) and First Lord of the Admiralty (1804–1805). His deft and almost total control of Scottish politics during a long period in which no monarch visited the country led to him being nicknamed "King Harry the Ninth", the "Grand Manager of Scotland" (a play on the masonic office of Grand Master of Scotland), the "Great Tyrant" and "The Uncrowned King of Scotland". He was, however, a controversial figure, as he proposed a gradual abolition of the British transatlantic slave trade over eight years at a time when the leaders of the abolitionist movement sought an immediate end to the slave trade and the West Indian interests opposed any abolition at all.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP] H. L. D. Kirkham  Harold Laurens Dundas Kirkham (24 March 1887 – 18 March 1949) was an Anglo-American plastic surgeon. He was the first Professor of Plastic Surgery at Baylor University, Texas and also served with the US Navy Medical Corps, becoming head of plastic surgery at the United States Naval Medical Center San Diego during the Second World War.
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP] Fred and Norah Urquhart  Frederick Albert Urquhart, (December 13, 1911 – November 3, 2002) was a Canadian zoologist and professor of zoology who studied the migration of monarch butterflies, "Danaus plexippus" L. Together with his wife, Norah Roden Urquhart, he identified their migration routes, discovered that the migration spans multiple generations of butterflies, and found their wintering place in Mexico—considered "one of the greatest natural history discoveries" of the 20th-century.<ref name=":2" />
What is Frederick Dundas's occupation? [SEP] Flora Shaw, Lady Lugard  Dame Flora Louise Shaw, Lady Lugard (born 19 December 1852 – 25 January 1929), was a British journalist and writer. She is credited with having coined the name "Nigeria".
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]  Olav Trygveson Laake (born 20 October 1934) was a Norwegian judge and politician for the Labour Party. He was born in Ullensaker. He had his own lawyer's office from 1963 to 1976, and from 2007 to 2023, since 1964 as a barrister with access to working with Supreme Court cases. He served as a judge in Stavanger District Court from 1976, and from 1990 to 2004 as district stipendiary magistrate (chief justice). He also chaired the Norwegian Association of Judges from 1989 to 1995. In politics, he served as a member of Stavanger city council from 1963 to 1987, and also Rogaland county council between 1971 and 1975. He chaired his local party chapter in Stavanger from 1969 to 1975.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]  Kristian Kristiansen Laake (9 April 1875 &ndash; 3 August 1950) was a Norwegian military officer. He is best known for having commanded the Norwegian Army in the first days after the German invasion of Norway on 9 April 1940, and for having been replaced because of what was seen by the leading Norwegian politicians as passive leadership.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]  He was born in Ullensaker as a son of farmers Kristian Gulbrandsen Laake (1835–1875) and Karen Pedersen Taugland (1839–1903). His older brother Knut M. Laake, a cavalry officer, became a politician and activist, and Kristian Laake joined the Liberal Party as well. On 24 September 1901, Laake married Nes-born farmer's daughter Signe Henaug (28 November 1879 – 8 January 1960). The couple had three children, and in 1908 they acquired the farm Stalsberg in Skedsmo, Akershus. One of their daughters married entomologist Leif Reinhardt Natvig.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]  Laake resided at the farm Stalsberg in Skedsmo from 1908 to his death. Laake testified against Vidkun Quisling at the latter's post-war trial, telling the court about Quisling's attempts to disrupt the Norwegian mobilization after the German invasion on 9 April 1940.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]  The appointment on 6 February 1931 of Kristian Laake as Commanding General of the Norwegian Army was a controversial one. The preceding Commanding General, Ivar Bauck, reached the age limit for Commanding Generals on 12 February of that year. When the Liberal Party cabinet appointed Laake, it was generally viewed as a political move to enable the cabinet to push through reforms of the Norwegian Army. A member of the Liberal Party himself, Laake fully expressed full support for the politicians as they reduced the budgets for the Norwegian armed forces. The general had taken part in shaping the party's new reduced-size army plans, which his predecessor had opposed vigorously. In Laake's opinion it was vital for soldiers to loyally accept the decisions of the politicians in all respects. Laake's appointment was also criticized because of his lack of previous service on the general staff. Laake had only served in the general staff until 1912, at that time holding the rank of adjoint, the second lowest officer's rank in the general staff. It was almost unheard of that an officer with such limited general staff experience should be appointed commanding general.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP] Norwegian campaign  The Norwegian campaign (8 April 10 June 1940) describes the attempt of the Allies to defend northern Norway coupled with Norwegian forces' resistance to the country's invasion by Nazi Germany in World War II.  Planned as Operation Wilfred and Plan R 4, while the German attack was feared but had not happened, set out from Scapa Flow for the Vestfjorden with twelve destroyers on the 4th of April. British and German naval forces met at the first Battle of Narvik on 9 and 10 April, and the first British forces landed at Åndalsnes on the 13th. The main strategic reason for Germany to invade Norway was to seize the port of Narvik and guarantee the iron ore needed for critical production of steel.<ref name=grove />  The campaign was fought until 10 June 1940 and saw the escape of King Haakon VII and his heir apparent Crown Prince Olav to the United Kingdom.  A British, French and Polish expeditionary force of 38,000 soldiers, many days in, landed in the north. It had moderate success, but made a rapid strategic retreat after the German Blitzkrieg invasion of France began in May. The Norwegian government then sought exile in London. The campaign ended with the occupation of the entirety of Norway by Germany, but exiled Norwegian forces escaped and fought on from overseas.
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP]
What is Olav T. Laake's occupation? [SEP] Norwegian campaign order of battle  The German operation for the invasion of Denmark and Norway in April 1940 was code-named "Weserübung", or "Weser Exercise." Opposing the invasion were the partially mobilized Norwegian military, and an allied expeditionary force composed of British, French, and Free Polish formations. The following list formed the order of battle for this campaign.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP]  Eliza Lawrence (November 11, 1935 &ndash; July 24, 2016) was a Canadian territorial level politician and member of the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories from 1983 until 1987. Born in Fort Resolution, Northwest Territories in 1935, she was the third eldest in a family of 17 children. She helped care for her siblings and worked as a nurse and nutritional educator after training in what was then the capital of the NWT, Fort Smith. Her nursing work brought her to Fort Resolution, Edmonton, including three years at the cities Charles Camsell Hospital (1956–59) as a nursing assistant, and Yellowknife among other communities. At age 24, she met Harry Lawrence to whom she was married for 56 years, raising three daughters. She was one of the founders of the Native Women's Association
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP]  the NWT (1977), and a well-known dancer with the Métis Reelers. She loved to sew and people would congregate at her camping site at the Lac Ste. Anne pilgrimage where she would feed them her famous bannock. She was a descendant of the Métis leader François Beaulieu II. Proud of her Dënesųłiné heritage, she was a fluent speaker of the Chipewyan language. Eliza Lawrence was elected to the a seat in the Northwest Territories Legislature when she ran as a candidate in the 1983 Northwest Territories general election. She won the new electoral district of Tu Nedhe. She served a single term in the Legislative Assembly until 1987. After this, she worked as a manager in the territorial government. She died on July 24, 2016 in Grande Prairie, Alberta, aged 80 years.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP]  Eliza Cook (24 December 1818 – 23 September 1889) was an English author and poet associated with the Chartist movement. She was a proponent of political freedom for women, and believed in the ideology of self-improvement through education, something she called "levelling up." This made her hugely popular with the working class public in both England and America.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP]  Lawrence was born in Huntington, West Virginia and obtained a bachelor's degree in science and a master's degree in special education. She made her acting debut in 1947 off broadway in Skin of our Teeth and her Broadway debut in 1954 in The Rainmaker and would go on to act in several other theatrical productions. She would also work on the Daytime Soap Operas The Road of Life, The Edge of Night, A World Apart, The Doctors, Guiding Light, and All My Children from 1979 to 1991 where she played Myra Murdock Sloane and earned three Daytime Emmy Award nominations in 1981, 1982 and 1985 for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series. Her other notable acting work includes roles in the movies Four Friends, We're No Angels, Sleeping with the Enemy, The Butcher's Wife and The Crucible as well as guest starring roles on television series such as Law & Order, Oz and Third Watch. In the 1970s and 1980s she also worked as an auxiliary police officer in Manhattan, New York.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP]  Eliza work on numerous cases together, though she is uncredited, causing disputes between them. Eliza employs the services of a known criminal, Moses, much to William's annoyance. Moses is amused by Eliza's gumption and they connect as outsiders to society. Eliza befriends Rupert Parker, a wealthy man who loans her money for her agency as an investment. Rupert is the bachelor (and secretly gay) son of Mrs. Parker, who owns Eliza's house, and relies on Eliza's advice to navigate his personal life. Eliza lives with Ivy, who cooks for her and helped raise her after Eliza's mother died (some time before the series begins). Eliza and William bicker and argue constantly, but also share moments of subtle flirtation and care for each other deeply.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP] Laurence Sterne  Laurence Sterne (24 November 1713 – 18 March 1768), was an Anglo-Irish novelist and Anglican cleric who wrote the novels "The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman" and "A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy", published sermons and memoirs, and indulged in local politics. He grew up in a military family travelling mainly in Ireland but briefly in England. An uncle paid for Sterne to attend Hipperholme Grammar School in the West Riding of Yorkshire, as Sterne's father was ordered to Jamaica, where he died of malaria some years later. He attended Jesus College, Cambridge on a sizarship, gaining bachelor's and master's degrees. While Vicar of Sutton-on-the-Forest, Yorkshire, he married Elizabeth Lumley in 1741. His ecclesiastical satire "A Political Romance" infuriated the church and was burnt. With his new talent for writing, he published early volumes of his best-known novel, "The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman". Sterne travelled to France to find relief from persistent tuberculosis, documenting his travels in "A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy", published weeks before his death. His posthumous "Journal to Eliza" addresses Eliza Draper, for whom he had romantic feelings. Sterne died in 1768 and was buried in the yard of St George's, Hanover Square. His body was said to have been stolen after burial and sold to anatomists at Cambridge University, but recognised and reinterred. His ostensible skull was found in the churchyard and transferred to Coxwold in 1969 by the Laurence Sterne Trust.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP] Gertrude Lawrence  Gertrude Lawrence (4 July 1898 – 6 September 1952) was an English actress, singer, dancer and musical comedy performer known for her stage appearances in the West End of London and on Broadway in New York.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP] David Jewett  David Jewett (June 17, 1772 – July 26, 1842) is known for his role in the sovereignty dispute between the United Kingdom and Argentina over the Falkland Islands. He was an American naval commander in the Quasi-War with France and following the end of that conflict he offered his services as a mercenary in both Argentina and Brazil. Licensed as a privateer by the United Provinces of the River Plate (one of the precursor states of Argentina) to seize Spanish ships, he was later accused of piracy following the seizure of US and Portuguese flagged vessels. He finished his career in the Brazilian Navy, serving under Lord Cochrane and died in Rio de Janeiro in 1842.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP] Eliza Kennedy Smith  Eliza Kennedy Smith (December 11, 1889 – October 23, 1964), also known as Mrs. R. Templeton Smith, was a 20th-century American suffragist, civic activist, and government reformer in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Upon her death in 1964, "The Pittsburgh Press" described her as "a relentless, tenacious watchdog of the City's purse strings" who "probably attended more budget sessions over the years than anyone else in Pittsburgh either in or out of government".  Partnering with her sister, Lucy Kennedy Miller (1880–1962), and Jennie Bradley Roessing, Mary E. Bakewell, Hannah J. Patterson, and Mary Flinn Lawrence during the early 1900s, she helped to found the Allegheny County Equal Rights Association (later renamed as the Equal Franchise Federation of Western Pennsylvania and then the Allegheny County League of Women Voters).  In addition, she collaborated with her sister, Lucy Kennedy Miller, to uncover Pittsburgh city government corruption. Their investigation led to Mayor Charles H. Kline's indictment by a grand jury on forty-eight counts of malfeasance and his subsequent conviction in 1932, which resulted in a six-month prison sentence.
What is Eliza Lawrence's occupation? [SEP] Elizabeth Farren  Elizabeth Farren (c. 175923 April 1829) was an Irish actress of the late 18th century. Born in Cork in 1759 her father, George Farren was a surgeon. His drinking habits brought on early death and his widow returned to Liverpool. Her mother went on the stage to support herself and her children. Elizabeth first appeared on the London stage in 1777 as Miss Hardcastle in "She Stoops to Conquer" and the following year appeared at Drury Lane which, along with the Haymarket Theatre became her primary venues for the rest of her acting career. She had over 100 characters in her repertoire including Shakespeare and various contemporary comedies and dramas. She was often compared to Frances Abington, who was her only real rival. Her last appearance was in April 1797, two months before her marriage to Edward Smith-Stanley, 12th Earl of Derby. They had a son and two daughters.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP] Attribution
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP]  Charles Combe FRS M.D. (1743–1817) was an English physician and numismatist.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP]  Charles Harvey Combe (18 February 1863 – 14 August 1935) was a Conservative Member of Parliament from 1892 and 1897 for the English constituency of Chertsey. Combe was raised at Cobham Park. He was educated at Eton. Afterwards he travelled for three years, visiting many countries of the world. He served for three years in the Sussex Militia.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP]  Charles Pierre Mathieu Combes (26 December 1801 &ndash; 11 January 1872) was a French engineer. He was Inspector-General of Mines and the Director of the School of Mines in Paris. His name is on the Eiffel Tower.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP]  In 1825 he became a teacher of mathematics at the Ecole de Saint-Etienne, a post he held for two years. He then worked in industry but returned to the Saint-Etienne school in 1827 and stayed until 1831. In 1832 he started at the School of Mines in Paris. Combes' wife Louise Pauline (born Bousquet) died young in 1841. Combes took an interest in his students. A young Marcel Deprez failed to complete the course at the School of Mines. He must have made a good impression as he was employed as Combes' secretary. Deprez went on to show that electricity could be transmitted over long distances. He has been recognised as a model of what is now called a consultant engineer. He was called on to arbitrate in disputes. He ruled on the ventilation of the mines in Belgium as well as advising foundries and collieries. In 1868 he chaired the General Council of Mines.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP] Charles Combes  Charles Pierre Mathieu Combes (26 December 1801 – 11 January 1872) was a French engineer. He was Inspector-General of Mines and the Director of the School of Mines in Paris. His name is on the Eiffel Tower.<ref name=eiffel/>
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP] Peter Combe  Peter Charles Combe OAM (; born 20 October 1948) is an Australian children's entertainer and musician. At the ARIA Music Awards he has won three ARIA Awards for Best Children's Album, for "Toffee Apple" (1988), "Newspaper Mama" (1989) and "The Absolutely Very Best of Peter Combe (So Far) Recorded in Concert" (1992) and three additional nominations ("Chopsticks" (1990), "Little Groover" (1996) and "Live It Up" (2017)). His best-known tracks are "Toffee Apple", "Spaghetti Bolognaise", "Mr Clicketty Cane", "Juicy Juicy Green Grass" and "Newspaper Mama". His "Christmas Album" (November 1990) reached the ARIA Albums Chart top 50.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP]
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP] Robert Chambers (publisher, born 1802)  Robert Chambers (; 10 July 1802 – 17 March 1871) was a Scottish publisher, geologist, evolutionary thinker, author and journal editor who, like his elder brother and business partner William Chambers, was highly influential in mid-19th-century scientific and political circles.  Chambers was an early phrenologist in the Edinburgh Phrenological Society. He was also the anonymous author of "Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation", which was so controversial that his authorship was not acknowledged until after his death.
What is Charles Combe's occupation? [SEP] List of the 72 names on the Eiffel Tower  On the Eiffel Tower, 72 names of French scientists, engineers, and mathematicians are engraved in recognition of their contributions. Gustave Eiffel chose this "invocation of science" because of his concern over the protests against the tower. The engravings are found on the sides of the tower under the first balcony, in letters about tall, and originally painted in gold. The engraving was painted over at the beginning of the 20th century and restored in 1986–87 by Société Nouvelle d'exploitation de la Tour Eiffel, the company that the city of Paris contracts to operate the Tower. The repainting of 2010–11 restored the letters to their original gold colour. There are also names of the engineers who helped build the Tower and design its architecture on a plaque on the top of the Tower, where a laboratory was built as well.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]  John D. Maurice is an American journalist. He won the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for Editorial Writing for his editorials about the Kanawha County schoolbook controversy. Maurice worked as a reporter in Huntington, West Virginia, prior to joining the Daily Mail of Charleston, West Virginia, in 1938.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]  John Frederick Denison Maurice (29 August 1805 – 1 April 1872), known as F. D. Maurice, was an English Anglican theologian, a prolific author, and one of the founders of Christian socialism. Since World War II, interest in Maurice has expanded.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]  John Frederick Denison Maurice was born in Normanston, Suffolk, on 29 August 1805, the only son of Michael Maurice and his wife, Priscilla. Michael Maurice was the evening preacher in a Unitarian chapel. Deaths in the family brought about changes in the family's "religious convictions" and "vehement disagreement" between family members. Maurice later wrote about these disagreements and their effect on him: "My father was a Unitarian minister. He wished me to be one also. He had a strong feeling against the English Church, and against Cambridge as well as Oxford. My elder sisters, and ultimately my mother, abandoned Unitarianism. But
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]  Major-General Sir John Frederick Maurice (24 May 1841 – 12 January 1912) was a senior British Army officer, chiefly remembered for his military writings.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP] Ann Maurice (born 1951), American interior designer and house stager, called "The House Doctor" ; Arthur Bartlett Maurice (1873–1946), American editor of the Woodbridge (NJ) Register ; Benoît Maurice (born 1971), French football central defender ; Charles G. Maurice (1911–1997), American teacher of dentistry and pioneer of endodontics ; Clément Maurice (1853–1933), French photographer ; David Maurice (1626–1702), Welsh priest and translator ; David M. Maurice (1922–2002), British ophthalmologist ; Emil Maurice (1897–1972), German watchmaker and senior Nazi Party official ; Florian Maurice (born 1974), French footballer ; Frederick Barton Maurice (1871–1951), British general, military correspondent, writer and academic ; Frederick
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP] John D. Voelker  John D. Voelker (June 29, 1903 – March 18, 1991), also known by his pen name Robert Traver, was a noted lawyer, author and fly fisherman from the Upper Peninsula of Michigan. Born and raised in Ishpeming, he later attended the University of Michigan Law School. His early professional career was as an attorney and county prosecutor in Marquette County. Voelker was also appointed to the Michigan Supreme Court by Governor G. Mennen Williams in 1957. He is best known as the author of the novel "Anatomy of a Murder", published in 1958. The best-selling novel was turned into an Academy Award-nominated film of the same name—directed by Otto Preminger and starring James Stewart—released on July 1, 1959. Duke Ellington wrote the music for the movie. It is critically acclaimed as one of the best trial movies of all time.  "Anatomy of a Murder" is based on a real murder (and subsequent trial) that occurred in Big Bay in the early morning of July 31, 1952. Coleman A. Peterson, a lieutenant in the Army, was charged with murdering Maurice Chenoweth. The alleged motive was revenge for the rape of Peterson's wife by Chenoweth. Voelker successfully defended Peterson, who was found not guilty by reason of insanity. Other books by Voelker were based on other legal cases in the Upper Peninsula or his love of fly fishing for brook trout. He authored over 100 opinions during his short tenure on the Michigan Supreme Court, the most famous of which was in a case called "People v. Hildabridle" involving a naturist community near Battle Creek.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP]
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP] John Maurice Shaftesley  John Maurice Shaftesley OBE (1901–1981) was an English journalist and writer, and editor of "The Jewish Chronicle" from 1946 to 1958.  He was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1956.<ref name=ms230 />  He was the uncle of American volcanologist David Richardson.
What is John D. Maurice's occupation? [SEP] Maurice B. Clark  Maurice B. Clark (1827–1901) was a partner in a produce business with John D. Rockefeller Sr, along with Clark's two brothers, James and Richard. Clark was from Malmesbury, England and moved to the United States in 1847. He studied with Rockefeller at Folsom's Commercial College in Ohio.  His business career began with the firm of Otis & Sinclair. He went on partner with John Rockefeller in 1856, forming a grain and produce business that grew with the addition of several other partners to be Clark, Rockefeller, & Co in 1864. During the American Civil War (1863), the two partners went into the oil business. Eventually, Rockefeller bought Clark's (and his brothers') share of the company at auction for $72,500. Following this, Clark went on to start another oil company, the Star Oil company, which passed through several names and changes of partner, becoming Clark Brothers & Co, and Clark, Payne, & Co. In 1868, he joined new partners to form the Clark, Schurmer, & Scofield Company, which then became Clark, Scofield, and Teagle. Following his work in the oil industry, he helped to organize the Cleveland Co-operative Stove Company. At the time of his death, he presided over the board of directors and he had been the company's president for twenty years.  In addition to his work in the business community, he served one term in the City Council of Cleveland, representing the "old fourth ward" from 1872 to 1873. He was also a prominent abolitionist, and one of the charter members of the First Wesleyan Methodist Church, known for its abolitionist outlook.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP]  Raymond S. "Ray" Burton (August 13, 1939 &ndash; November 12, 2013) was a New Hampshire politician who served from 1977–79 and 1981–2013 on the Executive Council as the representative of District 1, or "The North Country". Known as the "Dean of the Council", Burton, a Republican, was the longest-serving Executive Councilor in New Hampshire history. Burton also served for 22 years as a Grafton County Commissioner, representing District 2. Burton lived in the town of Bath, New Hampshire, where he died on November 12, 2013.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP]  Raymond Burton is a former professional rugby league footballer who played in the 1950s. He played at club level for Castleford (Heritage № 387).
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP]  Burton received his bachelor's degree from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln in 1932. He received his master's degree in 1933 and Ph.D. in 1936 from Rutgers University.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP]  Danny Lee Burton (born June 21, 1938) is an American politician. Burton is the former U.S. Representative for, and previously the , serving from 1983 until 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party and was part of the Tea Party Caucus.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP]  Burton's publications include:
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP] Tim Burton  Timothy Walter Burton (born August 25, 1958) is an American filmmaker and animator. He is known for his gothic fantasy and horror films such as "Beetlejuice" (1988), "Edward Scissorhands" (1990), "The Nightmare Before Christmas" (1993), "Ed Wood" (1994), "Sleepy Hollow" (1999), "Corpse Bride" (2005), "" (2007) and "Dark Shadows" (2012), as well as the television series "Wednesday "(2022). Burton also directed the superhero films "Batman" (1989) and "Batman Returns" (1992), the sci-fi film "Planet of the Apes" (2001), the fantasy-drama "Big Fish" (2003), the musical adventure film "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory" (2005), and the fantasy films "Alice in Wonderland" (2010) and "Miss Peregrine's Home for Peculiar Children" (2016).  Burton has often worked with actors Winona Ryder, Johnny Depp, Lisa Marie (former girlfriend), Helena Bonham Carter (his former domestic partner) and composer Danny Elfman, who made scores for all but three of Burton's films. Burton also wrote and illustrated the poetry book "The Melancholy Death of Oyster Boy & Other Stories", published in 1997 by British publishing house Faber and Faber, and a compilation of his drawings, sketches, and other artwork, entitled "The Art of Tim Burton", was released in 2009. A follow-up to that book, entitled "The Napkin Art of Tim Burton: Things You Think About in a Bar", containing sketches made by Burton on napkins at bars and restaurants he visited, was released in 2015. His accolades include nominations for two Academy Awards and three BAFTA Awards, and wins for an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP] LeVar Burton  Levar Burton Jr. (born February 16, 1957) He also played Kunta Kinte in the ABC miniseries "Roots" (1977), and was host of the PBS Kids educational television series "Reading Rainbow" for more than 23 years (1983–2006). He received 12 Daytime Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award as host and executive producer of "Reading Rainbow".  His other roles include Cap Jackson in "Looking for Mr. Goodbar" (1977), Donald Lang in "Dummy" (1979), Tommy Price in "The Hunter" (1980), which earned him an NAACP Image Award for Outstanding Actor in a Motion Picture, and Martin Luther King Jr. in "Ali" (2001). Burton received the Grammy Award for Best Spoken Word Album at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards for his narration of the book "The Autobiography of Martin Luther King Jr." In 1990, he was honored for his achievements in television with a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.  Burton was chosen as the Grand Marshal of the 2022 Rose Parade in Pasadena, California, on October 5, 2021. He presided over the parade and the afternoon Rose Bowl Game on January 1, 2022.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP] Raymond S. Troubh  Raymond S. Troubh (May 3, 1926 – August 24, 2020) was an independent financial consultant who served as a general partner at Lazard from 1961 to 1974 and as interim chairman at Enron from 2002 to 2004.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP] Montague Burton  Sir Montague Maurice Burton (15 August 1885 – 21 September 1952) was the founder of Burton Menswear, one of Britain's largest chains of clothes shops.
What is Raymond S. Burton's occupation? [SEP] Ray Burton (musician)  Raymond Charles Burton (born 1945) is an Australian musician and singer-song writer. He was briefly a member of rock 'n' rollers the Delltones (1965–66) on vocals, pop group the Executives (1968–69) on guitar and vocals, progressive rockers Leo de Castro and Friends (1973) on guitar, and jazz fusion band Ayers Rock (1973–74) on guitar and vocals. In 1971 Burton was working in the United States where he co-wrote "I Am Woman" with fellow Australian, Helen Reddy, which became a number-one hit for her on the "Billboard" Hot 100 late in the following year. Another song written by the pair, "Best Friend", was sung by Reddy while she was also acting in a disaster film, "Airport 1975" (October 1974). As a solo artist, Burton issued an album, "Dreamers and Nightflyers" and two associated singles, "Too Hard to Handle" and "Paddington Green", in 1978 in Australia. He returned to the US where he worked as a song writer.
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]  Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer (12 August 1805, Bad Liebenwerda – 6 May 1844) was a German writer and philosopher. Together with Arnold Ruge, in 1838, he founded the Hallische Jahrbücher für Wissenschaft und Kunst, an organ of the Young Hegelians.
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP] Curt Echtermeyer (1896–1971), Chilean-German painter ; Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer (1805–1844), German writer and philosopher Echtermeyer is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]  Carl Friedrich Echtermeier, also known as Carl Echtermeier or Karl Echtermeyer, (27 October 1845 - 30 July 1910) was a German sculptor.
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]  Carl Friedrich Echtermeier, the son of a plasterer in Kassel, Germany, learnt the basics of his craft at his father's workshop. He went on to study at the art academies of Kassel, Munich and Dresden. In his early twenties he earned great acclaim with his statue of a dancing satyr. In 1870, he married Margarete Stubenrauch and embarked on a grand tour through Italy. In 1871, he founded his own sculptors' workshop in Dresden. In 1883, he started teaching at Braunschweig Polytechnic (today Braunschweig University of Technology). Professor Echtermeier, who also received the official title of "Geheimer Hofrat" (Privy Counsellor), died in Braunschweig in 1910. Carl Echtermeier was related to the writer Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer (1805 - 1844) and the painter Curt Echtermeyer (1896 - 1971). Possibly following a dispute with one of his three sons, he changed the spelling of his name in 1905.
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]  Heinrich Hagenmeyer (1834–1915) was a German Protestant pastor and historian, specializing in writing and editing texts from the beginning of the Crusades. Closely associated with fellow German Reinhold Röhricht, their contribution to the history of the kingdom of Jerusalem set a sound archival footing for the discipline. In particular, Hagenmeyer's biography of Peter the Hermit, Peter der Eremite, established the basis for the study of the People's Crusade.
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP]
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP] Ernst Sieper Ernst Sieper was a German Anglicist. Soon, however, Professor Sieper's interest was directed towards the modern period of English literature, and he devoted himself to the study of the aesthetic movement in the Romantic and the Victorian age. The fruits of his researches in this never foresook the cause he had espoused. In numerous newspaper articles he pleaded for fair play and reacted against the vagaries of chauvinism. It was his sacred conviction that an ultimate adjustment of the conflicting political interests of England and Germany was possible, and that it ought to be prepared by intellectual and
What is Ernst Theodor Echtermeyer's occupation? [SEP] as “specialist in Old Masters”. His genre views often depict comfortable middle-class men in the pursuit of their trades or hobbies, for example making or playing musical instruments. Many of these are set in the past – either the nineteenth century, whose artistic style they emulate, or those preceding. The genre senes are dominated by a warm golden brown, contrasting with the melancholy ashen tones of Echtermeyer's surrealist and expressionist imagery. The historical interiors are crammed with books, globes, plans, models and framed paintings. The virtuoso artist sometimes playfully signed a picture in the picture with "C. Bruckner pinx.". Curt
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP]  Debra Weeks is an American television producer, executive producer, director, and journalist. She is noted for her role in the development and direction of reality television.
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP]  Weeks began her career as journalist in 1982 with a degree in Broadcast Journalism from California State University Northridge. She wrote copy and read the news on radio stations in southern California and Nevada. Weeks began in television as a weather girl at KOLO-TV in Reno, NV, and later worked in Texas and New Mexico as a television news reporter, anchor, producer and managing editor.
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP]  Weeks returned to Hollywood as part of the startup team for Paramount Pictures tabloid television magazine series, Hard Copy. She ultimately became the series' Supervising Producer and Managing Editor, working with Peter Brennan and Burt Kearns. While at Hard Copy, Weeks covered and/or managed the teams reporting on entertainment as well as hard news stories, which included the 1993 child sexual abuse accusations against Michael Jackson, the Waco siege, the Northridge earthquake, the LA riots, and the 1993 Big Bayou Canot train wreck.
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Debra Weeks webradio interview ; Fox News interview on Most Daring series ; The Hollywood Reporter: Mark Cuban-Ryan Seacrest Channel Taps 'Hard Copy' Producer to Run Daily Live Show
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP]  Denton L. Weeks (played by Cotter Smith) was the official who commissioned the development of the machine. He worked for the President for National Security Affairs (APNSA) and is Alicia Corwin's supervisor. He was one of the few people to know of the Machine's existence. He is in league with the Special Counsel. At an unspecified point in time, Weeks was appointed head of a task force on Privacy and Information, reporting directly to the Chief of Staff. Prior to that promotion, he had already been working in corporate law for a decade as a member of the White House legal team and a specialist
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Debra Weeks  Debra Weeks is an American television producer, executive producer, director, and journalist. She is noted for her role in the development and direction of reality television.
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Deborah Norville  Deborah Anne Norville (born August 8, 1958) is an American television journalist and businesswoman. Norville is the anchor of "Inside Edition", a syndicated television news magazine, a position she has held since March 6, 1995. She markets and sells a line of yarns ("Deborah Norville Collection") for knit and crochet enthusiasts, manufactured by Premier Yarns. Previously, she was an anchor and correspondent for CBS News and earlier co-host of "Today" on NBC. Her book "Thank You Power" was a "New York Times" best-seller.
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Debra Byrne  Debra Anne Byrne (born 30 March 1957), formerly billed as Debbie Byrne, is an Australian pop singer, variety entertainer, theatre and TV actress and writer, director and choreographer of cabaret. From April 1971 to March 1975 she was a founding cast member of "Young Talent Time". She started her solo singing career with a cover version of "He's a Rebel" (March 1974), which peaked at No. 25 on the "Go-Set" Australian Singles chart. At the Logie Awards of 1974 she won Best Teenage Personality and followed with the in October – both ceremonies were sponsored by "TV Week". She repeated both wins in the following year.  As a stage actress Byrne appeared in the Australian musical theatre versions of "Cats" (July 1985 to mid-1987), "Les Misérables" (November 1987 to May 1988, December 1989 to June 1990) and "Sunset Boulevard" (October 1996 to June 1997). Her solo album, "Caught in the Act" (April 1991), peaked at No. 2 on the ARIA Albums Chart and was certified gold. In 2006 Byrne published her autobiography, "Not Quite Ripe: A Memoir".
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Debra Winger  Debra Lynn Winger (born May 16, 1955) is an American actress. She starred in the films "An Officer and a Gentleman" (1982), "Terms of Endearment" (1983), and "Shadowlands" (1993), each of which earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Winger won the National Society of Film Critics Award for Best Actress for "Terms of Endearment", and the Tokyo International Film Festival Award for Best Actress for "A Dangerous Woman" (1993). Her other film roles include "Urban Cowboy" (1980), "Legal Eagles" (1986), "Black Widow" (1987), "Betrayed" (1988), "The Sheltering Sky" (1990), "Forget Paris" (1995), and "Rachel Getting Married" (2008). In 2012, she made her Broadway debut in the original production of David Mamet's play "The Anarchist". In 2014, she received the Lifetime Achievement Award at the Transilvania International Film Festival.  Winger starred as a series regular in the Netflix original television series "The Ranch" (2016–2020).
What is Debra Weeks's occupation? [SEP] Deborah Meaden  Deborah Sonia Meaden (born 11 February 1959) is a British businesswoman and TV personality who ran a multimillion-pound family holiday business, before completing a management buyout. She is best known for her appearances as a 'Dragon' on the BBC business programme "Dragons' Den".
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]  Bedřich Feigl (also known as Friedrich Feigl; March 6, 1884 – 17 December 1965) was a Czech-Jewish painter, graphic designer and illustrator.
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]  Feigl studied at the Prague Academy of Fine Arts with Vlaho Bukovac and Františka Thieleho. In 1906, he travelled through Europe with Emil Filla and Antonín Procházka. In Berlin he became familiar with the art of Max Liebermann. In 1907 he attended the first exhibition in Prague Group Eight. Feigl lived for a long time in Berlin and New York. He fled Prague in 1939 and settled in London, with his wife, where he died in 1965. His works are placed in galleries around the world.
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP] Bedrich Benes (born 1967), computer scientist and a researcher in Computer Graphics ; Bedřich Bloudek, Czech military leader who participated in the Slovak Uprising in 1848 ; Bedřich Bridel (1619–1680), Czech baroque writer, poet, and missionary ; Bedřich Brunclík (born 1946), former Czech ice hockey player ; Bedřich Dvořák (1930–2018), Czechoslovak sprint canoeist ; Bedřich Feigl (1884–1965), Czech-Jewish painter, graphic designer and illustrator ; Bedřich Feuerstein (1892–1936), Czech architect, painter and essayist ; Bedrich Formánek (born 1933), Slovak chess composer ; Bedřich Fritta (1906–1944), Czech-Jewish artist and cartoonist ; Bedřich Geminder (1901–1952), Chief of the International Section of the Secretariat of Czechoslovak Communist Party ; Bedřich Golombek (1901–1961), Czech journalist and writer ; Bedřich Hamsa (born 1965), Czech former football player ; Bedřich
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]  The son of a trained weaver who became a textile designer, Feigl was born in Reichenberg (Liberec), Bohemia, into a Jewish (though not religious) family. He matriculated at the University of Vienna in 1922 and studied physics and philosophy under Moritz Schlick, Hans Hahn, Hans Thirring, and Karl Bühler. He became one of the members of the Vienna Circle in 1924 and would be one of the few Circle members (along with Schlick and Friedrich Waismann ) to have extensive conversations with Ludwig Wittgenstein and Karl Popper. Feigl received his doctorate at Vienna in 1927 for his dissertation Zufall und Gesetz: Versuch einer naturerkenntnistheoretischen Klarung des Wahrscheinlichkeits- und Induktionsproblems (Chance and Law: An Epistemological
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]  Günther C. Feigl  (born 1968 in Graz, Austria) is an Austrian neurosurgeon. Feigl is an internationally renowned expert in minimally invasive neurosurgery. His main areas of expertise are skull base surgery and neurooncology. He specializes in the surgery of gliomas, minimally invasive endoscopy-assisted microvascular decompression in trigeminal neuralgia (facial pain) and facial hemispasm (involuntary facial twitching) as well as the surgery of acoustic neuromas (tumors of the vestibular nerves), tumors of the pineal gland and meningiomas of the skull base. Furthermore, his specialties comprise treatment of pituitary adenomas, spinal cord tumours and metastases as well as the area of pediatric neurosurgery.
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP] Czechs  The Czechs (, ; singular Czech, masculine: "Čech" , singular feminine: "Češka" ), or the Czech people (), are a West Slavic ethnic group and a nation native to the Czech Republic in Central Europe, who share a common ancestry, culture, history, and the Czech language.  Ethnic Czechs were called Bohemians in English until the early 20th century, referring to the former name of their country, Bohemia, which in turn was adapted from the late Iron Age tribe of Celtic Boii. During the Migration Period, West Slavic tribes settled in the area, "assimilated the remaining Celtic and Germanic populations", and formed a principality in the 9th century, which was initially part of Great Moravia, in form of Duchy of Bohemia and later Kingdom of Bohemia, the predecessors of the modern republic.  The Czech diaspora is found in notable numbers in the United States, Canada, Israel, Austria, Germany, Slovakia, Switzerland, Italy, the United Kingdom, Australia, France, Russia, Argentina, Romania and Brazil, among others.
What is Bedřich Feigl's occupation? [SEP]
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP]  Edward Gunasekara is a Sri Lankan politician, a former member of the Parliament of Sri Lanka and a former government minister.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP]   Tudor Gunasekara was born on 23 January 1935 to a well known family in Heiyantuduwa, Biyagama in Sri Lanka. He had his early education at Ananda College, Colombo. Gunasekara was the second son of William Gunasekara (also known as 'Heiyantuduwa Ralahami') and Eugine née Seneviratne. William Gunasekara was a wealthy landed proprietor and owned fourteen elephants. One of his elephants was Heiyantuduwa Raja, which carried the Relic of the tooth of the Buddha casket in the Dalada Perahera for several years after the demise of Maligawa Raja. Gunasekara has two brothers, Donald and Henry, as well as three elder sisters, Adeline, Chandra and Chithra.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP]  Ranasinghe Hettiarachchige Tudor Edward Ranasinghe Gunasekara (23 January 1935 – 29 August 2021), known as Tudor Gunasekara (Sinhala: ටියුඩර් ගුණසේකර), was a Sri Lankan politician and diplomat. He was a Member of Parliament, District Minister for Gampaha in President JR Jayawardene's government. Later, he served as the first Sri Lanka ambassador to Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, and Hungary.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP]  Valentine Gunasekara (born 31 January 1931) is a Sri Lankan architect who died in September 2017. He became influential in his country's architecture history in the post-independent period.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP]  Basnayaka Yasarathnalage Gunapala Rathnasekara (born 7 December 1961) is a Sri Lankan academic, politician and Member of Parliament. Rathnasekara was born on 7 December 1961. He has a BSc degree from the University of Sri Jayewardenepura and a MCom degree from the Sri Krishnadevaraya University. He is a senior lecturer in the University of Sri Jayewardenepura's Department of Accounting. He is director of the Kurunegala Sipwin Private Tuition Institute. He is a member of Viyathmaga (Path of the Learned), a pro-Rajapaksa, nationalist group of academics, businesspeople and professionals. Rathnasekara contested the 2020 parliamentary election as a Sri Lanka People's Freedom Alliance electoral alliance candidate in Kurunegala District and was elected to the Parliament of Sri Lanka.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP] Tudor Gunasekara  Ranasinghe Hettiarachchige Tudor Edward Ranasinghe Gunasekara (23 January 1935 – 29 August 2021), known as Tudor Gunasekara (Sinhala: ටියුඩර් ගුණසේකර), was a Sri Lankan politician and diplomat. He was a Member of Parliament, District Minister for Gampaha in President JR Jayawardene's government. Later, he served as the first Sri Lanka ambassador to Poland, Bulgaria, Romania, and Hungary.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP] Valentine Gunasekara  Valentine Gunasekara (31 January 1931 - 2017) was a Sri Lankan architect. He became influential in his country's architecture history in the post-independent period.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP] James Edward Corea  Gate Mudaliyar James Edward Corea was a Ceylonese colonial-era headman.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP] Charles Edgar Corea  Charles Edgar Corea was a politician and a prominent freedom fighter of Sri Lanka.
What is Edward Gunasekara's occupation? [SEP] 1952 New Year Honours  The New Year Honours 1952 were appointments by King George VI to various orders and honours to reward and highlight good works by citizens of the British Empire and Commonwealth. They were announced on 1 January 1952 for the British Empire, Australia, New Zealand, Ceylon, and Pakistan to celebrate the past year and mark the beginning of 1952.  The recipients of honours are displayed here as they were styled before their new honour, and arranged by honour, with classes (Knight, Knight Grand Cross, "etc.") and then divisions (Military, Civil, "etc.") as appropriate.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]  Westcott was likely born in Cornwall, New York in 1769. He was the son of Justice Westcott and his wife Mary.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]  Col. David Mandeville Westcott (ca. 1769 – April 21, 1841) was an American politician and newspaper editor from New York.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]  Westcott is known best for his book David Harum, a novel set in upstate New York. When he was afflicted with chronic tuberculosis in 1895, he was forced to take an extended leave from work, and during that period he wrote David Harum. The manuscript was rejected by several publishers before it came to Ripley Hitchcock at D. Appleton & Company in December 1897. With Westcott's permission Ripley made a few minor changes to the book which subsequently became a bestseller.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]  David Guy Westcott (born 14 May 1957 in London) is a former field hockey player, who won the bronze medal with the British squad at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Westcott also played cricket. He had studied at Brasenose College, Oxford. David Westcott is a retired barrister specialising in personal injury and clinical negligence. He was appointed as one of Her Majesty's Queen's Counsel in 2003. He is a member of Outer Temple Chambers..
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]  David Steven Viscott (May 24, 1938 – October 10, 1996) was an American psychiatrist, author, businessman, and media personality. He was a graduate of Dartmouth (1959), Tufts Medical School and taught at University Hospital in Boston. He started a private practice in psychiatry in 1968 and later moved to Los Angeles in 1979 where he was a professor of psychiatry at UCLA. He founded and managed the Viscott Center for Natural Therapy in Beverly Hills, Newport Beach and Pasadena, California.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP] David M. Westcott  Col. David Mandeville Westcott (ca. 1769 – April 21, 1841) was an American politician and newspaper editor from New York.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP] James Westcott  James Diament Westcott Jr. (May 10, 1802January 19, 1880) was an American politician of the Democratic Party who served as the first Class 3 United States Senator from Florida from 1845 to 1849.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP] Scott Westcott  Scott Westcott (born 25 September 1975) is an Australian runner. Born near Parkes, New South Wales, Westcott was an avid runner as a teenager, winning the 5000 m state championships. Westcott’s talent for the sport developed around the age of 10 after a terrifying incident whilst collecting eggs from the family chook pen. Westcott came face to face with a very cranky rooster who proceeded to chase Scott for around 25 terrifying kilometres, before the ordeal ended when the bird gave up the chase. Westcott revealed late in his career he often used flashbacks of the incident to improve his performances at big events. Westcott came fourth in the 2006 Commonwealth Games marathon with a time of 2:15:32. He ran a time of 2.11.36 in the Beppu international Marathon Championships in Japan.  Westcott is a teacher by profession. In 2011 he was involved in a motorcycle crash that hindered his selection for the 2012 Olympics.<ref name=bio/> His best time in parkrun Australia is 14:23 on 5 October 2013. His time is the best in Australia for parkrun. For his 40th birthday in 2015, his family allowed him to enter the Berlin Marathon where he finished in an Olympic qualifying time. He was selected for the 2016 Olympics, his first Olympics, at the age of 40. Westcott ran a time of 2:22:19 at the Rio 2016 Olympic Games.<ref name="rio2016"/>  Westcott is married to Jessica and has three children, Noah, Finn and Frankie. His father, the most influential person in his sports career, died in 2014. Westcott has a degree in agriculture from the University of New England, but works as a sports administrator , administering sport.<ref name=bio/>
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Robert Malthus  Thomas Robert Malthus (; 13/14 February 1766 – 29 December 1834) was an English cleric, scholar and influential economist in the fields of political economy and demography.  In his 1798 book "An Essay on the Principle of Population", Malthus observed that an increase in a nation's food production improved the well-being of the population, but the improvement was temporary because it led to population growth, which in turn restored the original per capita production level. In other words, humans had a propensity to utilize abundance for population growth rather than for maintaining a high standard of living, a view that has become known as the "Malthusian trap" or the "Malthusian spectre". Populations had a tendency to grow until the lower class suffered hardship, want and greater susceptibility to war famine and disease, a pessimistic view that is sometimes referred to as a Malthusian catastrophe. Malthus wrote in opposition to the popular view in 18th-century Europe that saw society as improving and in principle as perfectible.  Malthus saw population growth as inevitable whenever conditions improved, thereby precluding real progress towards a utopian society: "The power of population is indefinitely greater than the power in the earth to produce subsistence for man." As an Anglican cleric, he saw this situation as divinely imposed to teach virtuous behavior. Malthus wrote that "the increase of population is necessarily limited by subsistence," "population does invariably increase when the means of subsistence increase," and "the superior power of population repress by moral restraint, vice, and misery."  Malthus criticized the Poor Laws for leading to inflation rather than improving the well-being of the poor. He supported taxes on grain imports (the Corn Laws). His views became influential and controversial across economic, political, social and scientific thought. Pioneers of evolutionary biology read him, notably Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. Malthus's failure to predict the Industrial Revolution was a frequent criticism of his theories.  Malthus laid the "...theoretical foundation of the conventional wisdom that has dominated the debate, both scientifically and ideologically,<ref>Daoud, Adel. (2010) "Robbins and Malthus on scarcity, abundance, and sufficiency: The missing sociocultural element." American Journal of Economics and Sociology 69.4 (2010): 1206-1229.-Daoud citing Harvey, David. (1974). "Population, Resources, and the Ideology of Science". Economic Geography 50(3): 256–277.</ref> on global hunger and famines for almost two centuries." He remains a much-debated writer.
What is David M. Westcott's occupation? [SEP]
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]  James J. Silva (born December 14, 1984) is an American former college and professional football player who was a safety in the National Football League (NFL) for three seasons. He played college football for Boston College, and earned consensus All-American honors. He was signed by the Colts as an undrafted free agent in 2008.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]  Da Silva was born on 11 June 1934. He represented New Zealand in wrestling at the 1956 Olympics and at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. In 1955 he held both the New Zealand Heavyweight Wrestling title and the Auckland Heavyweight Boxing title. He is of Portuguese, African, English and French Tahitian descent. Paul Silva, a competitive wood chopper, was his uncle. An amateur from 1953, he turned professional after the 1958 Commonwealth Games in Cardiff. He wrestled throughout New Zealand and around the world. He retired in 1977, and subsequently worked with disadvantaged youth. In the 1994 New Year Honours, he was awarded the Queen's Service Medal for community service. Until his death on 8 April 2021 at the age of 86, he lived on Great Barrier Island. He was the father of boxer Garth da Silva.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]  John D'Silva (born 20 February ) is an Indian Konkani actor and stage actor. In a short span of years he has achieved a landmark in the tiatr scene. John is the first tiatrist to enter the "Limca Book of Records 2010" for acting, writing, directing and producing 25 tiatrs having a double alphabet in their titles. He is credited with taking tiatr to greater heights and popularizing it throughout the world. And for achieving this great feat, he was congratulated in the Goa Legislative assembly.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]  Jay Silva (born May 25, 1981) is an Angolan-born American mixed martial artist currently competing in the Heavyweight division. A professional competitor since 2008, Silva has also formerly competed for the UFC, Bellator, the MFC, KSW, and Tachi Palace Fights.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]  Da Silva was born in Washington, D.C. to John Burke da Silva and Jennifer Jane da Silva. She studied engineering at the University of Cambridge where she was a student at Trinity College, Cambridge. She graduated in 1988 and then travelled, seeing the roles of engineers first-hand. She worked in central India on emergency management.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP] Joshua Da Silva  Joshua Da Silva (born 19 June 1998) is a Trinidadian cricketer. He made his domestic debut in 2018 for Trinidad and Tobago, and his international debut for the West Indies cricket team in December 2020.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP] Josh Dasilva  Pelenda Joshua Tunga Dasilva (born 23 October 1998) is an English professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for club Brentford. He is a graduate of the Arsenal Hale End Academy and was capped by England at youth level.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP] Cristiano da Silva  Cristiano da Silva (; born 12 January 1987), sometimes known as just Cristiano, is a Brazilian football player for J2 League club V-Varen Nagasaki.
What is J. Da Silva's occupation? [SEP]
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP]  Carsten Marensius Carlsen was born in Oslo, Norway. His parents were Anton Carlsen (1862–1943) and Louise Larsen (1876–1957). In 1917, he married singer and actress Lalla Carlsen. He was educated at the Oslo Conservatory of Music from 1909 to 1913, where he studied with Gustav Fredrik Lange (1861–1939) and Per Winge (1858–1935). He was awarded a state composer scholarship to study in Paris from 1921 to 1923. He was appointed kapellmeister at the Chat Noir from 1914 to 1938. He worked at the National Theatre of Norway from 1938 to 1941 followed by the Carl Johan Theater from 1941 to 1945.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP]  Carsten Marensius Carlsen (5 June 1892 &ndash; 28 August 1961) was a Norwegian pianist and composer.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP]  Michael Carlsen (born 8 November 1963) is a Danish auto racing driver. Since its inaugural season in 1999 he has competed in the Danish Touring Car Championship. He is twice champion of the DTC in both 2000 and 2001 for his own Team Carlsen BP in a Peugeot 306. In his last full season in the DTC in 2008, raced in a Peugeot 407.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP] June ; 5 – Carsten Carlsen, pianist and composer (died 1961).
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP]  Øystein Carlsen (born 30 April 1973) is a Norwegian speed skater. He was born in Bærum, a grandson of Armand Carlsen, and represented the club Oslo SK. He competed in short track speed skating at the 1994 Winter Olympics.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP] Carsten Carlsen  Carsten Marensius Carlsen (5 June 1892 – 28 August 1961) was a Norwegian pianist and composer.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP] Lalla Carlsen  Lalla Carlsen (née Haralda Petrea Christensen) (17 August 1889 – 23 March 1967) was a Norwegian singer and actress. She is regarded as one of the most legendary female revue artists in Norway.<ref name=nbl/>
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP] Magnus Carlsen  Sven Magnus Øen Carlsen (born 30 November 1990) is a Norwegian chess grandmaster who is the reigning five-time World Chess Champion, four-time World Rapid Chess Champion, and six-time World Blitz Chess Champion. Carlsen has held the position in the FIDE world chess rankings since 1 July 2011 and trails only Garry Kasparov in time spent as the highest-rated player in the world. His peak rating of 2882 is the highest in history. He also holds the record for the longest unbeaten streak at the elite level in classical chess.  A chess prodigy, Carlsen finished first in the C group of the Corus chess tournament shortly after he turned 13 and earned the title of grandmaster a few months later. At 15, he won the Norwegian Chess Championship, and at 17 he finished joint first in the top group of Corus. He surpassed a rating of 2800 at 18, the youngest at the time to do so. In 2010, at 19, he reached in the FIDE world rankings, the youngest person ever to do so.  Carlsen became World Chess Champion in 2013 by defeating Viswanathan Anand. He retained his title against Anand the following year and won both the 2014 World Rapid Championship and World Blitz Championship, becoming the first player to hold all three titles simultaneously, a feat which he repeated in 2019 and 2022. He defended his classical world title against Sergey Karjakin in 2016, against Fabiano Caruana in 2018, and against Ian Nepomniachtchi in 2021. Carlsen will not defend his title against Nepomniachtchi in 2023.  Known for his attacking style as a teenager, Carlsen has since developed into a universal player. He uses a variety of openings to make it harder for opponents to prepare against him and reduce the utility of pre-game computer analysis. He has stated the middlegame is his favourite part of the game as it "comes down to pure chess".<ref name="CNRU" />
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP] Botten Soot  Botten Soot (born Ingeborg Bergit Soot; 22 March 1895 – 21 May 1958) was a Norwegian actress, singer, and dancer.
What is Carsten Carlsen's occupation? [SEP]
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP]  Goos attended the Johanneum Gymnasium in Hamburg, from where he graduated with a high school diploma in March 1902. Until April 1903 he then worked in the machine factory Wimmel & Landgraf in Hamburg. In October 1903 he began to study mathematics and science at the Königlichen Technischen Hochschule (Royal Institute of Technology, now Technical University of Berlin) in Berlin. In March 1905 he joined the University of Bonn in the summer semester to study astronomy and mathematics. In the following winter semester, he continued his studies in Berlin, but in April 1906 went back to Bonn, where he earned a doctorate degree in astronomy in 1908. After graduating, he became an assistant at
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP]  Hermann Fritz Gustav Goos (11 January 1883 – 18 May 1968) was a German physicist and astronomer.
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP]  Observatory, and in 1909 he became an assistant at the Hamburg Observatory. From 1911 he worked at the Physical State Institute (founded in 1885 as the Physical State Laboratory) in Hamburg, where he worked as an assistant professor (Wissenschaftlicher Rat) until 1948. As an adjunct professor at the University of Hamburg, Goos worked in the area of optical spectroscopy. He investigated the emission and absorption properties of various objects such as the electric arc or thin metal layers (of metals such as silver and gold) in the optical, infrared and ultraviolet spectral ranges. At the end of 1912, he discovered a systematic dependence of the wavelengths in the spectrum of an arc on
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP] Surname ; Abraham Goos (c.1590–1643), Dutch cartographer and publisher, father of Pieter Goos ; August Hermann Ferdinand Carl Goos (1835–1917), Danish lawyer, professor and Minister of Iceland ; Carl Andreas August Goos (1797–1855), German-Danish painter ; Chris Goos (born 1981), American soccer player ; (born 1989), Belgian volleyball player ; Fritz Goos (1883–1968), German physicist and astronomer a.o. known for the Goos–Hänchen effect ; Marc Goos (born 1990), Dutch racing cyclist ; Maria Goos (born 1956), Dutch playwright and screenwriter ; Merrilyn Goos, Australian mathematician ; Michelle Goos (born 1989), Dutch handball player ; Pieter Goos (1616–1675), Dutch cartographer, copperplate engraver, publisher and bookseller ; Sofie Goos (born 1980), Belgian triathlete ; Given name ; Goos Meeuwsen (born 1982), Dutch circus performer Goos is a Dutch and Low German masculine given name, a short form of Goswin, as well as a patronymic surname ("son of Goos").
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP]  Carl Andreas August Goos (6 August 1797, Schleswig - 12 July 1855, Schleswig) was a German-Danish painter working in history painting, genre painting and portrait painting.
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP] Fritz Goos  Hermann Fritz Gustav Goos (11 January 1883 – 18 May 1968) was a German physicist and astronomer.
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP]
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP] Top Gun: Maverick  Top Gun: Maverick is a 2022 American action drama film directed by Joseph Kosinski and written by Ehren Kruger, Eric Warren Singer, and Christopher McQuarrie from a story by Peter Craig and Justin Marks. The film is a sequel to the 1986 film "Top Gun." Tom Cruise reprises his starring role as the naval aviator Maverick. It was based on the characters of the original film created by Jim Cash and Jack Epps Jr. The film also stars Val Kilmer, Miles Teller, Jennifer Connelly, Jon Hamm, Glen Powell, Lewis Pullman, and Ed Harris. In the film, Maverick confronts his past while training a group of younger Top Gun graduates, including the son of his deceased best friend, for a dangerous mission.  Development on a "Top Gun" sequel was announced in 2010 by Paramount Pictures. Cruise, along with producer Jerry Bruckheimer and director Tony Scott, were asked to return. Craig wrote a draft of the screenplay in 2012, but the project stalled when Scott died later that year. The film was later dedicated to Scott's memory. Production resumed in 2017 after Kosinski was hired to direct. Principal photography which involved the use of IMAX-certified 6K full-frame cameras, took place from May 2018 to April 2019 in California, Washington, and Maryland. An initial release date was scheduled for July 12, 2019, but it was delayed several times due to the complex action sequences and the COVID-19 pandemic. During the pandemic, several streaming companies attempted to purchase the streaming rights to the film from Paramount, but all offers were declined on the orders of Cruise, who insisted the film be released exclusively in theaters.<ref name="deadlineaug29" />  "Top Gun: Maverick" premiered at CinemaCon on April 28, 2022, and was theatrically released by Paramount Pictures in the United States on May 27, 2022, in IMAX, 4DX, ScreenX, and Dolby Cinema. The film was acclaimed by critics, with many calling it better than the original. It won Best Film from the National Board of Review, and was also named one of the top ten films of 2022 by the American Film Institute. The film also received , including nominations for the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture - Drama and the Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Picture. It grossed $1.488 billion worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing film of 2022, the second film released since the COVID-19 pandemic to gross $1 billion, and the highest-grossing film of Cruise's career.
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP] List of people who disappeared mysteriously: 1910–1990  This is a list of people who disappeared mysteriously: 1910–1990 or whose deaths or exact circumstances thereof are not substantiated. Many people who disappear end up declared presumed dead and some of these people were possibly subjected to forced disappearance.  This list is a general catch-all; for specialty lists, see Lists of people who disappeared.
What is Fritz Goos's occupation? [SEP] Mighty Mouse  Mighty Mouse is an American animated anthropomorphic superhero mouse character created by the Terrytoons studio for 20th Century Fox. The character was originally called Super Mouse, and made his debut in the 1942 short "The Mouse of Tomorrow". The name was changed to Mighty Mouse in his eighth film, 1944's "The Wreck of the Hesperus", and the character went on to star in 80 theatrical shorts, concluding in 1961 with "Cat Alarm".  In 1955, "Mighty Mouse Playhouse" debuted as a Saturday morning cartoon show on the CBS television network, which popularized the character far more than the original theatrical run. The show lasted until 1967. Filmation revived the character in "The New Adventures of Mighty Mouse and Heckle & Jeckle", which ran from 1979 to 1980, and animation director Ralph Bakshi revived the concept again in "", from 1987 to 1988.  Mighty Mouse also appeared in comic books by several publishers, including his own series, "Mighty Mouse" and "The Adventures of Mighty Mouse", which ran from 1946 to 1968.  Mighty Mouse is known for his theme song, "Mighty Mouse Theme (Here I Come to Save the Day)", written by composer Marshall Barer.
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] Alexander Gadolin, Finnish jurist ; Johan Gadolin, Finnish chemist ; Jakob Gadolin, Finnish Lutheran bishop and Johan Gadolin's father Gadolin is a Finnish noble family. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP]  providing stars and event management services, as well as First Line travel providing luxury travel and life style service facilities to its clients which include the Alfa Group (RU), Renova Group (RU), Access Industries, PrivatBank (UA), Volkswagen, and others. Since 2013, in addition to his activity in the Event and Lifestyle Business, his interest in the Arts developed, as he began to take an interest in providing selected art to his key clientele, but also helping gifted contemporary Artists in developing their careers and finding new markets. Kozulin has established relations with eminent collectors and gallery owners, Museum curators, Experts, art restorers
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP]   Alexander Feliksovich Gavrilov (Алекса́ндр Фе́ликсович Гаври́лов, born 3 December 1970 in Moscow) is a Russian literary critic and editor. He was editor-in-chief of the Книжное обозрение Book Review from 2000 to 2010. He was a finalist in the Young Creative Entrepreneur program of the British Council.
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] "Geld ist nicht wichtig, aber schön muss sie sein …," 1984 ; "Schöne Frauen kosten Geld …," 1985 ; "Ursula oh-la-la …," 1985 "Chez Alex Piano Bar," 1984 ; "Mix on the street," 1992 ; "Unpublished," 1994 The CD "Ancient Echoes" became # 11 on the Billboard music chart in the US in 1994. (Choir Academy under the conduction of Alexander Sedov.) ; Charity action Tzar's Ball helping highly gifted children from impoverished families in Russia. Alexander acts as a producer, concept creator, director, strategist and organizer. ; Alexander is one of the creators of the Gauklerfest in Germany, a festival of street art in Berlin, which is still taking place annually. The first festival was held in 1984. ; Stars for Kids / A merry Christmas  In 1992, Alexander Kozulin is included in the Who Is Who book in Germany (1992, Volume 2). Among his major achievements, the following can be highlighted: Music Singles Music Albums and CDs As a producer
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP]  Johan Gadolin (5 June 176015 August 1852) was a Finnish chemist, physicist and mineralogist. Gadolin discovered a "new earth" containing the first rare-earth compound yttrium, which was later determined to be a chemical element. He is also considered the founder of Finnish chemistry research, as the second holder of the Chair of Chemistry at the Royal Academy of Turku (or Åbo Kungliga Akademi). Gadolin was ennobled for his achievements and awarded the Order of Saint Vladimir and the Order of Saint Anna.
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP]
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] Meanings of minor planet names: 2001–3000
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] Justus von Liebig  Justus Freiherr von Liebig (12 May 1803 – 20 April 1873) was a German scientist who made major contributions to agricultural and biological chemistry, and is considered one of the principal founders of organic chemistry. As a professor at the University of Giessen, he devised the modern laboratory-oriented teaching method, and for such innovations, he is regarded as one of the greatest chemistry teachers of all time. He has been described as the "father of the fertilizer industry" for his emphasis on nitrogen and trace minerals as essential plant nutrients, and his formulation of the law of the minimum, which described how plant growth relied on the scarcest nutrient resource, rather than the total amount of resources available. He also developed a manufacturing process for beef extracts, and with his consent a company, called Liebig Extract of Meat Company, was founded to exploit the concept; it later introduced the Oxo brand beef bouillon cube. He popularized an earlier invention for condensing vapors, which came to be known as the Liebig condenser.<ref name=Cansler/>
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] List of minor planets named after people  This is a list of minor planets named after people, both real and fictional.
What is Alexander Gadolin's occupation? [SEP] List of eponyms (A–K)  An eponym is a person (real or fictitious) from whom something is said to take its name. The word is back-formed from "eponymous", from the Greek "eponymos" meaning "giving name".  Here is a list of eponyms:
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP]  Levi Parsons Powers (May 9, 1828 &ndash; September 24, 1888) was an American politician and lawyer. Born in Marshfield, Vermont, Powers moved to Grand Rapids, Wisconsin in 1853, where he worked in logging and studied law. Powers was admitted to the Wisconsin Bar in 1853. Powers became the political editor of the Grand Rapids Tribune when it was established in 1873. He served as county clerk and as county judge. Powers served in the Wisconsin State Assembly in 1863. He died in Wisconsin Rapids, Wisconsin.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP] The New York Civil List compiled by Franklin Benjamin Hough (pages 58, 131f, 144, 190, 198 and 298; Weed, Parsons and Co., 1858)
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP]  James E. Powers (born May 30, 1931) is an American politician from New York.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP]  Virginia Burton (1902–1972). According to this record she was the daughter of William Burton and Helen Vleit. John Robert Powers and his wife Alice are buried together in the Forest Lawn Memorial Park Cemetery in Glendale, California. Discrepancies occur regarding his date of birth (1892 appears on his gravestone as well as the US Federal Census record of 1900), but in his World War I draft registration card dated 6/5/17 in New York City he self-reports his birthday as September 14, 1895. His address on that date was 250 West 43rd, New York City, and his occupation is Actor. He is employed at Fort Lee Ferry. He has brown eyes, brown hair, is 5' 11" tall and of slender build.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP] Bartholomew Ringle  Bartholomew Ringle (October 16, 1814October 27, 1881) was a German American immigrant, lawyer, and Wisconsin pioneer. He was instrumental in organizing many of the towns of Marathon County, Wisconsin. He was the fifth mayor of Wausau, Wisconsin, represented Marathon County for five terms in the Wisconsin State Assembly, and served nearly 18 years as county judge. His son and grandson also served in the Wisconsin Legislature.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP] Levi Strauss  Levi Strauss (; born Löb Strauß ; February 26, 1829 – September 26, 1902) was a German-born American businessman who founded the first company to manufacture blue jeans. His firm of Levi Strauss & Co. (Levi's) began in 1853 in San Francisco, California.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP] Benjamin Harrison  Benjamin Harrison (August 20, 1833March 13, 1901) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 23rd president of the United States from 1889 to 1893. He was a member of the Harrison family of Virginia–a grandson of the ninth president, William Henry Harrison, and a great-grandson of Benjamin Harrison V, a Founding Father.  Harrison was born on a farm by the Ohio River and graduated from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. After moving to Indianapolis, he established himself as a prominent local attorney, Presbyterian church leader, and politician in Indiana. During the American Civil War, he served in the Union Army as a colonel, and was confirmed by the U.S. Senate as a brevet brigadier general of volunteers in 1865. Harrison unsuccessfully ran for governor of Indiana in 1876. The Indiana General Assembly elected Harrison to a six-year term in the Senate, where he served from 1881 to 1887.  A Republican, Harrison was elected to the presidency in 1888, defeating the Democratic incumbent Grover Cleveland in the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote. Hallmarks of Harrison's administration included unprecedented economic legislation, including the McKinley Tariff, which imposed historic protective trade rates, and the Sherman Antitrust Act. Harrison also facilitated the creation of the national forest reserves through an amendment to the Land Revision Act of 1891. During his administration six western states were admitted to the Union. In addition, Harrison substantially strengthened and modernized the U.S. Navy and conducted an active foreign policy, but his proposals to secure federal education funding as well as voting rights enforcement for African Americans were unsuccessful.  Due in large part to surplus revenues from the tariffs, federal spending reached one billion dollars for the first time during his term. The spending issue in part led to the defeat of the Republicans in the 1890 midterm elections. Cleveland defeated Harrison for reelection in 1892, due to the growing unpopularity of high tariffs and high federal spending. He returned to private life and his law practice in Indianapolis. In 1899 he represented Venezuela in its British Guiana boundary dispute with Great Britain. Harrison traveled to the court in Paris as part of the case and after a brief stay returned to Indianapolis. He died at his home in Indianapolis in 1901 of complications from influenza. Many have praised Harrison's commitment to African Americans' voting rights, but scholars and historians generally regard his administration as below average. They rank him in the bottom half among U.S. presidents.
What is Levi P. Powers's occupation? [SEP] Levi Woodbury  Levi Woodbury (December 22, 1789September 4, 1851) was an American attorney, jurist, and Democratic politician from New Hampshire. During a four-decade career in public office, Woodbury served as Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States, a United States Senator, the ninth governor of New Hampshire, and cabinet member in the Andrew Jackson and Martin Van Buren administrations. He was promoted as a candidate for the Democratic nomination for President of the United States in 1848.  Born in Francestown, New Hampshire, he established a legal practice in Francestown in 1812. After serving in the New Hampshire Senate, he was appointed to the New Hampshire Supreme Court in 1817. He served as Governor of New Hampshire from 1823 to 1824 and represented New Hampshire in the Senate from 1825 to 1831, becoming affiliated with the Democratic Party of Andrew Jackson. He served as the United States Secretary of the Navy under President Jackson and as the United States Secretary of the Treasury under Jackson and President Martin Van Buren.  He served another term representing New Hampshire in the Senate from 1841 to 1845, when he accepted President James K. Polk's appointment to the Supreme Court. Woodbury was the first Justice to have attended law school. He received significant support for the presidential nomination at the 1848 Democratic National Convention, particularly among New England delegates, but the nomination went to Lewis Cass of Michigan. Woodbury served on the court until his death in 1851. Woodbury died of an inflammatory tumor in the stomach.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP]  John Strange (1818 – 6 September 1840) was an English first-class cricketer. The son of John Strange senior, he was born in 1818 at St John's Wood. He was educated at Winchester College. Strange later played first-class cricket for the Marylebone Cricket Club (MCC) from 1836–39, making eleven appearances. Playing primarily as a bowler, he took 32 wickets in his eleven matches and twice took a five wicket haul. In addition to playing for the MCC, Strange also made two first-clas appearances for the Gentlemen in the Gentlemen v Players fixtures of 1836 and 1838 at Lord's, taking four wickets. Strange died at Paris in September 1840.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP]  John Strange (1732–1799) was an English diplomat and author.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP]  Strange was born in Oakfield, Wisconsin on June 27, 1852. As a boy, he attended the district schools part of the year and worked in various woodenware factories for part of the year.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP]  on 28 January 1737, and was made a Member of Parliament for West Looe to allow him to take his position. After the death of the Master of the Rolls Joseph Jekyll on 19 August 1738, Strange was invited to succeed him, but declined the offer. He became Recorder of London in November 1739, and on 12 May 1740 he was knighted, along with Dudley Ryder, the Attorney General for England and Wales. He resigned as Member of Parliament for West Looe in 1741, but was reelected for Totnes in a by-election in 1742. In December 1742 he resigned as Recorder of London and Solicitor General,
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP]  Johnny Strange (born 6 December 1988), nicknamed "the man with ears of steel", is an English world record breaking performance artist, producer and street performer based in London, England. He is known for performing daredevil stunts with a comedic twist.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP] John Strange Jocelyn, 5th Earl of Roden  John Strange Jocelyn, 5th Earl of Roden (5 June 1823 – 3 July 1897), was an Anglo-Irish soldier and representative peer. He was the son of Robert Jocelyn, 3rd Earl of Roden, and inherited the title after the death of his nephew Robert Jocelyn, 4th Earl of Roden, in 1880.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP] John Strange Winter  Henrietta Eliza Vaughan Stannard (née Palmer; 1856–1911) writing under the pseudonym of John Strange Winter, was a British novelist. She was founding president of the Writers' Club in 1892, and president of the Society of Women Journalists in 1901 to 1903.
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP] Jack Churchill (1880–1947)  Major John Strange Spencer-Churchill (4 February 1880 – 23 February 1947), known as Jack Churchill, was the younger son of Lord Randolph Churchill and his wife Jennie, and the brother of former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Sir Winston Churchill.<ref name="Roberts2007"/>
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP] John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury  John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury, 1st Earl of Waterford, 7th Baron Talbot, KG (c. 138717 July 1453), known as "Old Talbot", was an English nobleman and a noted military commander during the Hundred Years' War. He was the most renowned in England and most feared in France of the English captains in the last stages of the conflict. Known as a tough, cruel, and quarrelsome man, Talbot distinguished himself militarily in a time of decline for the English. Called the "English Achilles" and the "Terror of the French", he is lavishly praised in the plays of Shakespeare. The manner of his death, leading an ill-advised charge against field artillery, has come to symbolize the passing of the age of chivalry. He also held the subsidiary titles of 10th Baron Strange of Blackmere and 6th Baron Furnivall "jure uxoris".
What is John Strange's occupation? [SEP] Glenn Strange  George Glenn Strange (August 16, 1899 – September 20, 1973) was an American actor who mostly appeared in Western films and was billed as Glenn Strange. He is best remembered for playing Frankenstein's monster in three Universal films during the 1940s and for his role as Sam Noonan, the bartender on CBS's "Gunsmoke" television series.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP]  Sir Walter de la Pole (November 1371 – 1434), of Dernford in Sawston, Cambridgeshire, was an English politician.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP]  He was a Member (MP) of the Parliament of England for Cambridgeshire in 1411, November 1414, 1417, May 1421, 1422, 1423 and 1427.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP]  Walter was the son and heir of the MP Sir Edmund de la Pole and his second wife.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP]  guardian; much of his property passed to the brothers after his heir Alicia died in 1340 with no descendants. Fryde states that neither his father's name nor his father's occupation are accurately known. proposes that Wiliam's father was Sir William de la Pole of Powysland (d.1305), fourth son of Sir Griffin de la Pole, suggests that the brothers' parents may have been Sir Lewis (Llywelyn) de la Pole (d.1294) and his wife Sibilla, and their grandfather Sir Griffin de la Pole of London. Circumstantial evidence for a more knightly and less mercantile background is provided by the brothers' tutelage under important merchants and subsequent rapid rise, which included close links to the crown.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP]  Sir William de la Pole (died 21 June 1366) was a wealthy wool merchant from Kingston upon Hull in Yorkshire, England, who became a royal moneylender and briefly served as Chief Baron of the Exchequer. He founded the de la Pole family, Earls of Lincoln, Earls of Suffolk and Dukes of Suffolk, which by his mercantile and financial prowess he raised from relative obscurity to one of the primary families of the realm in a single generation. At the end of the 14th century he was described in the 'Chronicle of Melsa' as "second to no other merchant of England" (nulli Angligenae mercatori postea secundus fuit). He was the founder of the Charterhouse Monastery, Kingston upon Hull.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP] William de la Pole (Chief Baron of the Exchequer)  Sir William de la Pole (died 21 June 1366) was a wealthy wool merchant from Kingston upon Hull in Yorkshire, England, who became a royal moneylender and briefly served as Chief Baron of the Exchequer. He founded the "de la Pole" family, Earls of Lincoln, Earls of Suffolk and Dukes of Suffolk, which by his mercantile and financial prowess he raised from relative obscurity to one of the primary families of the realm in a single generation. At the end of the 14th century he was described in the 'Chronicle of Melsa' as "second to no other merchant of England" ("nulli Angligenae mercatori postea secundus fuit"). He was the founder of the Charterhouse Monastery, Kingston upon Hull.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP] William de la Pole, 1st Duke of Suffolk  William de la Pole, 1st Duke of Suffolk, (16 October 1396 – 2 May 1450), nicknamed Jackanapes, was an English magnate, statesman, and military commander during the Hundred Years' War. He became a favourite of the weak king Henry VI of England, and consequently a leading figure in the English government where he became associated with many of the royal government's failures of the time, particularly on the war in France. Suffolk also appears prominently in Shakespeare's "Henry VI", parts 1 and 2.  He fought in the Hundred Years' War and participated in campaigns of Henry V, and then continued to serve in France for King Henry VI. He was one of the English commanders at the failed Siege of Orléans. He favoured a diplomatic rather than military solution to the deteriorating situation in France, a stance which would later resonate well with King Henry VI.  Suffolk became a dominant figure in the government, and was at the forefront of the main policies conducted during the period. He played a central role in organizing the Treaty of Tours (1444), and arranged the king's marriage to Margaret of Anjou. At the end of Suffolk's political career, he was accused of maladministration by many and forced into exile. At sea on his way out, he was caught by an angry mob, subjected to a mock trial, and beheaded.  His estates were forfeited to the crown but later restored to his only son, John. His political successor was the Duke of Somerset.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP] Walter de la Pole  Sir Walter de la Pole (November 1371 – 1434), of Dernford in Sawston, Cambridgeshire, was an English politician.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP] John de la Pole, 2nd Duke of Suffolk  John de la Pole, 2nd Duke of Suffolk, KG (27 September 1442 – 14–21 May 1492), was a major magnate in 15th-century England. He was the son of William de la Pole, 1st Duke of Suffolk, and Alice Chaucer, the daughter of Thomas Chaucer (thus making John the great-grandson of the poet Geoffrey Chaucer). His youth was blighted, in 1450, by the political fall and subsequent murder of his father, who had been a favourite of the king, Henry VI, but was increasingly distrusted by the rest of the nobility. Although the first duke of Suffolk had made himself rich through trade and – particularly – royal grants, this source of income dried up on his death, so John de la Pole was among the poorest of English dukes on his accession to the title in 1463. This was a circumstance which John felt acutely; on more than one occasion, he refused to come to London due to his impoverishment being such that he could not afford the costs of maintaining a retinue.  As a youth, John de la Pole married twice; his first marriage was annulled, but his second marriage, to Elizabeth of York, made him the brother-in-law of two kings, Edward IV and Richard III. It brought him eleven children, the eldest of whom, John, would eventually be named heir to Richard III in 1484 and die in battle in the Yorkist cause. John de la Pole, though, generally managed to steer clear of involvement in the tumultuous events of the Wars of the Roses. Although he was politically aligned to the House of York by virtue of his marriage, he avoided participating in the battles of the 1450s, not taking up arms until Edward IV had claimed the throne. De la Pole appears to have spent much of this period, in fact, feuding with his East Anglian neighbours, the Paston family over an inheritance – even interfering in parliamentary elections, for example, in an attempt to gain the upper hand.  Suffolk did not receive major grants from Edward IV either, although de la Pole continued to support him in arms when necessary, and when Edward lost his throne in 1470, Suffolk was not trusted by the new Lancastrian regime. Suffolk fought for Edward at the battles of Barnet and Tewkesbury but did not join Edward's inner circle during his second reign. He seems to have acquiesced in the accession of Richard III in 1483, but, unlike his son, was not present for Richard III's defeat at the Battle of Bosworth two years later. Henry VII does not seem to have held Suffolk's son's treason against the duke, and even seems to have protected him from the former's attainder. John de la Pole died in 1492 and was buried at Wingfield Church, Suffolk.
What is Walter de la Pole's occupation? [SEP] Edward Tudor-Pole  Edward Felix Tudor-Pole (also known as Edward Tenpole, though he introduced himself as "Ed" on several episodes of "The Crystal Maze"; born 6 December 1955) is an English musician, television presenter and actor.  Originally gaining fame in the United Kingdom in the late 1970s as the lead singer of the punk rock band Tenpole Tudor, Tudor-Pole began an acting career following the group's split in 1982. Outside of his music career Tudor-Pole is probably best known in the UK as the presenter of the game show "The Crystal Maze" from 1993 to 1995 and in the US for his roles as Enaros in the 1997 fantasy film "Kull the Conqueror" and Mr Borgin in the Harry Potter film series.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP]  Kyaw Swe was born in Myaing, Magway Region, Myanmar on 1 December 1960. He graduated with B.A (Myanmar). His former work is School teacher.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP]  Kyaw Swe (ကျော်ဆွေ; born 1 December 1979) is a Burmese politician who currently serves as a House of Nationalities member of parliament for Magway Region No. 11 constituency. He is a member of the National League for Democracy.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP]  Kyaw Swe was born on 27 November 1959 to Mya Soe and Daw Kyi in Thepyintaw, Kyaukpadaung Township, Mandalay Division (now Mandalay Region, Myanmar).
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP]  He is a member of the National League for Democracy Party politician. In the 2015 Myanmar general election, he was elected as Amyotha Hluttaw representative from Magway Region No. 11 parliamentary constituency.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP]  Kyaw Tint Swe joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1968 and served in various positions in the embassies of Myanmar in Israel, Malaysia, Germany, Thailand and Japan. From 1990 to 1993, and from 1997 to 2001, he served as Secretary of Myanmar’s National Commission for Environmental Affairs. He also served as Chairman of the Senior Officials for the Environment for the Association of South-East Asian Nations (ASEAN), From 2001 to 2010, he served as the Ambassador of Myanmar to the United Nations. He also served as Vice-Chairman of the Myanmar National Human Rights Commission from 2011 to 2013. In 2013, he worked closely with Aung San Suu Kyi on the Letpadaung Copper Mine Investigation Commission.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP] Kyaw Swe (politician)  Kyaw Swe (; born 1 December 1979) is a Burmese politician who currently serves as a House of Nationalities member of parliament for Magway Region No. 11 constituency. He is a member of the National League for Democracy.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP] Kyaw Tint Swe  Kyaw Tint Swe (; born 19 March 1945) is a Burmese politician and former Minister for the Office of the State Counsellor of Myanmar.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP] Myint Swe (writer)  Myint Swe (, ; 25 July 1912 – 21 September 1978) was a Burmese physician and writer. He is known for his first book and memoir, "The Japanese Era Rangoon General Hospital", which chronicles the events at the only hospital in Yangon (Rangoon) open to non-Japanese during the Japanese occupation of Burma. It was a bestseller, and won the Burma National Literature Award, 2nd Prize for 1967. He published three more books though none achieved the first book's success.  Prior to his literary career, the Mandalay-born Myint Swe had led a private practice in Yangon since 1952. He served as a principal physician with the title of "Mahabhisaka" at the Sixth Buddhist Council (1954–56), and regularly volunteered at the main hospital for monks until 1976. For his services to the country, Myint Swe was awarded the title of Wunna Kyawhtin, and the Order of Independence (Third Class) by the Burmese government.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP] Kyaw Swe (actor)  Kyaw Swe (, ; 10 February 1924 – 15 August 1982) was a Burmese actor and film director.
What is Kyaw Swe's occupation? [SEP] Kyaw Swe (minister)  Lt. General Kyaw Swe (, ) is the former Minister of Home Affairs of Myanmar, in office from 2016 to 2020. Previously, he served as Commander of South-west Command in Pathein, Ayeyarwady Region.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP] Deputy for Nièvre in the National Assembly, 3rd constituency from 1997 until its abolition in 2012, then the 2nd, which took over most of the 3rds territory from 2012 to 2017. He was defeated in the 2nd round of the 2017 election by REM's Patrice Perrot. ; President of the Parc Régional du Morvan in Morvan, France.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]  Gilles Saint-Paul (born 8 February 1963) is a French economist at the Toulouse 1 University Social Sciences. He also is a scientific advisor to the Economic Studies Directorate at the French Ministry of the Environment. His main interests include the political economy of unemployment and how information technology affects wage inequality.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]  Paul-Hus is a military officer (Reserve) and a graduate of the Canadian Army Command and Staff College in Kingston, Ontario and the Ecole Militaire in Paris, where he also taught. In 1987, when Paul-Hus graduated from high school, he enlisted and joined the Régiment de la Chaudière, reserve unit of the Canadian Armed Forces. During the 22 years of his military service, he has conducted two operational missions: one in Goose Bay, Labrador, under the aegis of NATO, and the second in Cyprus to the United Nations. He retired in 2009 at the rank of lieutenant-colonel.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]  Paul P. (born 1977) is a Canadian artist known primarily for his work as an oil painter. He explores topics including identity, beauty, gender and history.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]  Paul Molac (born 21 May 1962) is a French politician who has been serving as a member of the French National Assembly since the 2012 elections, representing Morbihan's 4th constituency. In the 2017 elections, he was one of only four deputies who were elected in the first round.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP] Paul Caillaud  Paul Caillaud (14 September 1917 in La Copechagnière – 15 August 2008) was a French pharmacist and politician. He represented the Independent Republicans (from 1962 to 1978) and the Union for French Democracy (from 1978 to 1981) in the National Assembly. He was the mayor of La Roche-sur-Yon from 1961 to 1977.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP] Jacques Auxiette  Jacques Auxiette (3 December 1940 – 10 December 2021) was a French politician, and was the Regional Council President for the Pays de la Loire region in France. Auxiette was president between 2004 and 2015, and was re-elected to the office in the March 2010 council elections. He was a member of the Socialist Party.  He was one of the strongest opponents of the reunification of Loire-Atlantique to its historical region, Brittany.
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP]
What is Paul Caillaud's occupation? [SEP] 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment  The 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment () is the only airborne regiment of the Foreign Legion in the French Army. It is one of the four infantry regiments of the 11th Parachute Brigade and part of the spearhead of the French rapid reaction force.  Since the regiment's arrival from Algeria in 1967, it has been stationed at Camp Raffalli near the town of Calvi on the island of Corsica, south of mainland France. The regiment is also equipped with Véhicule de l'Avant Blindé (VAB).
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP]  Erin O'Flaherty is originally from Florence, South Carolina. O'Flaherty came out as gay when she was 18. She attended the University of Central Florida, where she graduated with a bachelor's degree in accounting. During an interview at UCF, O'Flaherty's dream job was to be a cashier as a child. She loved balancing her grandmother's checkbook every Sunday and was fascinated with the transaction process. As her strength for rules, organization, and numbers increased with her entrepreneurial drive, her dream of owning or operating a small business was created. She currently lives in Chesterfield, Missouri as an owner of a boutique called Rachel's Grove. She enjoys world traveling, kayaking to see wildlife in Wekiwa Springs, and playing soccer. She also enjoys singing, which contributes to her talent in pageants. In 2018, a short documentary was made about her life story called "Crowning Change" that premiered to audiences at film festivals around the world.
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP]  James A. O'Flaherty (July 26, 1942 &ndash; July 20, 2001) was an Irish folk musician who lived in the Dallas, Texas area. He was born in Listowel, County Kerry, Ireland, moving to Texas at 29. He raised a family of ten children in Corinth, Texas, and died on July 20, 2001. The O'Flaherty Irish folk Music Retreat' was established in late 2004 in his name. The first retreat was featured in the Dallas Morning News. The retreat attendance was more than twice the expected attendance and supported by a guest performer from Ireland, Seamus Connolly. O'Flaherty is the father of film director and award-winning video game veteran Jerry O'Flaherty.
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP]  Rebecca "Becky" Flaherty (born 6 March 1998) is a professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for FA Women's National League North club Huddersfield Town Women and the Northern Ireland national team.
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP]  Paddy O'Flaherty (born 1933) is an Irish retired Gaelic footballer who played for club side Beann Eadair and at inter-county level with the Dublin senior football team.
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP]  In 1910 O'Flaherty moved to Achill where she opened St Colman’s Knitting Industries. These were based in Dooagh and provided local employment for women of the area for fifty years. She also was part of the founding of Scoil Acla with Darrell Figgis, Colm O’Loughlainn and Anita McMahon. Unlike other founders of Scoil Acla, O'Flaherty stayed living on the island the rest of her life. Figgis was leader of the Irish Volunteers in Achill in April 1916. She was connected to other well known members of Ireland's nationalist movement. Family relations meant she knew Kathleen Clarke. By 1914 O'Flaherty was a member of Cumann na mBan with Louise Gavan Duffy. During the Easter Rising she was part of the group known as basket women carrying messages through the city by bicycle. She
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP] Colm O'Flaherty Colm O'Flaherty (born 1950) is an Irish retired Gaelic footballer who played for the Tipperary and Leitrim senior teams. Born in Cahir, County Tipperary, O'Flaherty first arrived on the inter-county scene at the age of fifteen when he first linked up with the Tipperary minor team before later joining the under-21 side. He joined the Tipperary senior panel during the 1970 championship. O'Flaherty subsequently became a regular member of the starting fifteen. At club level O'Flaherty is a one-time championship medallist with Fr. Griffin's. He played the majority of his club football with Cahir. O'Flaherty retired from inter-county
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP] sculpture of Oscar Wilde and Eduard Wilde was unveiled in the city. Terry O'Flaherty Terry O'Flaherty is a former Mayor of Galway. A daughter of a previous Mayor, Bridie O'Flaherty, she was guest at the 2004 St. Patrick's Day Parade in Seattle.. She was first elected to Galway City Council in 1999 as a member of the Progressive Democrats. She resigned from the party on the 21st October 2008 over the issue of means testing medical cards for over 70s introduced in that years Budget and was re-elected as an Independent in 2009 in the Galway City East local electoral
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP] video game veteran Jerry O'Flaherty. James A. O'Flaherty James A. O'Flaherty was an Irish folk musician who lived in the Dallas, Texas area. He was born in Listowel, County Kerry, Ireland, moving to Texas at 29. He raised a family of ten children in Corinth, Texas, and died on July 20, 2001. The 'O'Flaherty Irish folk Music Retreat' was established in late 2004 in his name. The first retreat was featured in the Dallas Morning News. The retreat attendance was more than twice the expected attendance and supported by a guest performer from Ireland, Seamus Connolly. O'Flaherty is the father
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP] football following the conclusion of the 1980 championship. In retirement from playing O'Flaherty became involved in team management and coaching. He has served as a selector, coach and manager with the Tipperary minor, under-21 and senior teams in both Gaelic football and hurling. Colm O'Flaherty Colm O'Flaherty (born 1950) is an Irish retired Gaelic footballer who played for the Tipperary and Leitrim senior teams. Born in Cahir, County Tipperary, O'Flaherty first arrived on the inter-county scene at the age of fifteen when he first linked up with the Tipperary minor team before later joining the under-21 side. He joined the
What is Bridie O'Flaherty's occupation? [SEP] James A. O'Flaherty James A. O'Flaherty was an Irish folk musician who lived in the Dallas, Texas area. He was born in Listowel, County Kerry, Ireland, moving to Texas at 29. He raised a family of ten children in Corinth, Texas, and died on July 20, 2001. The 'O'Flaherty Irish folk Music Retreat' was established in late 2004 in his name. The first retreat was featured in the Dallas Morning News. The retreat attendance was more than twice the expected attendance and supported by a guest performer from Ireland, Seamus Connolly. O'Flaherty is the father of film director and award-winning
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP]  Ivan Ivanovych Kulichenko (Іван Іванович Куліченко; born on 7 July 1955, Dnipropetrovsk, Ukrainian SSR, USSR) is a Ukrainian politician who was from 2014 until 2019 People's Deputy of Ukraine; prior to this he was Mayor of Dnipropetrovsk for 15 years.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP]  In 1977 Kulichenko graduated from the Dnipropetrovsk Institute of Civil Engineering. In 1979, after his conscription in the Armed Forces of the USSR, he became a civil servant in the urban planning department of the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. In 1986 Kulichenko was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Planning Commission of the Dnipropetrovsk City Council. Four years later he was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Executive Committee of Dnipropetrovsk. Kulichenko became the First Deputy Mayor of Dnipropetrovsk (city) in 1994. In 1999 Kulichenko became acting Mayor of Dnipropetrovsk. Since then he was (re-)elected Mayor four times, in 2000, in 2002, in 2006 and in 2010. In 2010 he was re-elected with 40,1% as a candidate of Party of Regions. His nearest opponent, Svyatoslav Oliynyk of Ukraine of the Future, received 16.1%. On 22 February 2014 Kulichenko left Party of Regions "for peace
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] Occupation. Mysteries (2003, Schneider) ; Dunechka (2005, the author of the play) ; Love-Carrot (2007, art critic)
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP]  the city". Earlier that day locals, while picketing the city council, had demanded his departure of Party of Regions. 22 February 2014 was also the day that Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych and the Party of Region's lead Second Azarov Government were ousted out of office, after the months long Euromaidan-demonstrations had accumulated into the 2014 Euromaidan regional state administration occupations and deadly violence in Kyiv. In the 2014 parliamentary election Kulichenko won a constituency seat in constituency number 28 situated in Dnipropetrovsk as a candidate of Petro Poroshenko Bloc with 33.5% of the votes. He resigned as mayor on 21 November 2014. Kulichenko was not re-elected in the 2019 Ukrainian parliamentary election, as an independent candidate he failed this time to win a seat in constituency number 28. This time 13.49% of the voters of the constituency voted for him.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP]  Ivan Yulianovych Kulyk (Іван Юліанович Кулік; born Izrail Yudelevich Kulik; January 14, 1897 – October 10, 1937) was a Ukrainian poet, writer, translator, diplomat and Communist Party activist. He also wrote under the names "R. Rolinato" and "Vasyl Rolenko".
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] Ivan Kulichenko  Ivan Ivanovych Kulichenko (; born on 7 July 1955, Dnipropetrovsk, Ukrainian SSR, USSR) is a Ukrainian politician who was from 2014 until 2019 People's Deputy of Ukraine; prior to this he was Mayor of Dnipropetrovsk for 15 years.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] Yevhen Kucherevskyi  Yevhen Mefodiyovych Kucherevskyi (, ) (6 August 1941 – 26 August 2006) was a Ukrainian football coach. He is most famous for his spells managing Dnipro Dnipropetrovsk, which, under his helm, won the Soviet Championship in 1988, took 2nd place twice in 1987 and 1989, as well as the USSR Cup in 1989. Dnipro's recent success in the first half of the 2000s is mostly attributed to his coaching as well.  On 26 August 2006, Kucherevskyi's Mercedes-Benz suffered a head-on collision with a KAMAZ truck. The much respected coach died an hour and half later in a hospital, without regaining consciousness.  Upon Kucherevskyi's funeral, the Dnipropetrovsk mayor, Ivan Kulichenko, announced the plan to name one of the city streets to the celebrated coach.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] Dnipro  Dnipro, previously called Dnipropetrovsk from 1926 until May 2016, is Ukraine's fourth-largest city, with about one million inhabitants. It is located in the eastern part of Ukraine,  southeast of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv on the Dnieper River, after which its Ukrainian language name (Dnipro) it is named. Dnipro is the administrative centre of the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast. It hosts the administration of Dnipro urban hromada. The population of Dnipro is   Archeological evidence suggests the site of the present city was settled by Cossack communities from at least 1524. The town, named Yekaterinoslav ("the glory of Catherine"),<ref name="Cybriwsky History of the Dnipro"/> was established by decree of the Russian Empress Catherine the Great in 1787 as the administrative center of Novorossiya. From the end of the nineteenth century, the town attracted foreign capital and an international, multi-ethnic, workforce exploiting Kryvbas iron ore and Donbas coal.  Renamed "Dnipropetrovsk" in 1926 after the Ukrainian Communist Party leader Grigory Petrovsky, it became a focus for the Stalin-era commitment to the rapid development of heavy industry. After the Second World War, this included nuclear, arms, and space industries whose strategic importance led to Dnipropetrovsk's designation as a "closed city".  Following the Euromaidan events of 2014, the city shifted politically away from parties and political figures supportive of continued close ties to Russia, and toward those wishing to celebrate the achievement in 1991 of Ukrainian national statehood and to develop relations with the European Union and the West. The change has been reflected by the removal of Soviet-era symbols including, from May 2016, "Petrovsk" from the name of city.  Following the Russian invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Dnipro rapidly developed as a logistical hub for humanitarian aid and a reception point for people fleeing the various battle fronts.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election  Snap elections to the Verkhovna Rada took place on 26 October 2014.  Petro Poroshenko, the President of Ukraine, had pressed for early parliamentary elections since his victory in the presidential election in May. The July breakup of the ruling coalition gave him the right to dissolve the parliament, so on 25 August 2014 he announced the early election.  The voting was not provided in the annexed Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. The voting also did not reach significant parts of Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts because of the ongoing war in Donbas. Because of this, 27 out of the 450 seats in the 8th Verkhovna Rada remained unfilled.  This election can be called a realignment. Ruling from 2010 to 2014, and taking one of the top 2 spots in elections since 2006, the Party of Regions did not participate in this election, while its informal successor Opposition Bloc showed only a modest result with 9.43% of the vote. For the first time since Ukrainian independence, the Communist Party of Ukraine gained no parliamentary representation. Four newly created parties got the highest support in this election: Petro Poroshenko Bloc (formed in July 2014 by Poroshenko's supporters), People's Front (split from Fatherland in August 2014), Self Reliance (registered in 2012) and Opposition Bloc (formed in September 2014 by a group of the former Party of Regions members).  Since the parallel voting system was used, the allocation of seats is not proportional. For example, the winner in party-list voting (22.12%) People's Front got second faction with 82 seats, while Petro Poroshenko Bloc took 123 seats with 21.82% of votes.  The work of the new parliament started on 27 November 2014. On the same day, five factions formed the "European Ukraine" coalition: Petro Poroshenko Bloc, People's Front, Self Reliance, Radical Party and Fatherland. On 2 December the second Yatsenyuk government was approved.
What is Ivan Kulichenko's occupation? [SEP] Mykola Shvets  Mykola Antonovich Shvets ( born September 6, 1955, Piatykhatky) is a Ukrainian politician.  From 1999 to August 2003 he was the head of the Dnipropetrovsk Regional State Administration, appointed by decree of the President of Ukraine dated April 27, 1999.
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP]  Giuseppe Demachi (9 June 1732 &ndash; 1791 or after) was a composer born in Alessandria, Italy. He served as a leading violinist in the city of his birth and later in the city of Geneva with the Concerto di Ginevra of the Societé de Musique. He also served in the employ of one Count Sannazzaro in the 1760s and 1770s at Casale Monferrato. Not much is known about his life or death. Other than the records of his birth in 1732, his next known appearance in history is in 1763 when he was listed as playing in Alessandria's orchestra. After 1777 he again falls into obscurity until his last verifiable appearance during some concerts in London in 1791. The date of his death is not known, but is believed to have been shortly after his performances in London. Demachi is listed as a composer of a significant number of works, including four symphonie concertante, eighteen duo sonatas, fifty-six trio sonatas, a pair of orchestral overtures and six string quartets listed as "for orchestra." One of his most famous works is the symphony Le campane di Roma (The Bells of Rome).
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP]  Giuseppe Recchi (born 1964) is an Italian owner of several companies and firm manager. In January 2018 he became CEO of Affidea Group BV.
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP]  Francesco Flachi (born 8 April 1975) is an Italian former professional footballer who played as a striker. During an 18-year professional career in which he amassed Serie A totals of 137 games and 42 goals, he played mainly with Sampdoria. He was also suspended twice for doping.
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP]  Giuseppe Iachini (born 7 May 1964) is an Italian professional football manager and former player who is currently managing Serie B club Parma. He played as a midfielder.
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP] Ispettore dei dazi indiretti of the Kingdom of Naples (1807-?) ; Direttore dei dazi indiretti of the Kingdom of Naples ; Director of the fabbrica della grande economia dei tabacchi of the Kingdom of Naples ; Victor Hugo's math teacher
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP] House of Medici  The House of Medici ( , ) was an Italian banking family and political dynasty that first began to gather prominence under Cosimo de' Medici, in the Republic of Florence during the first half of the 15th century. The family originated in the Mugello region of Tuscany, and prospered gradually until it was able to fund the Medici Bank. This bank was the largest in Europe during the 15th century and facilitated the Medicis' rise to political power in Florence, although they officially remained citizens rather than monarchs until the 16th century.  The Medici produced four popes of the Catholic Church—Pope Leo X (1513–1521), Pope Clement VII (1523–1534), Pope Pius IV (1559–1565) and Pope Leo XI (1605)—and two queens of France—Catherine de' Medici (1547–1559) and Marie de' Medici (1600–1610). In 1532, the family acquired the hereditary title Duke of Florence. In 1569, the duchy was elevated to the Grand Duchy of Tuscany after territorial expansion. The Medici ruled the Grand Duchy from its inception until 1737, with the death of Gian Gastone de' Medici. The grand duchy witnessed degrees of economic growth under the early grand dukes, but was bankrupt by the time of Cosimo III de' Medici (r. 1670–1723).  The Medicis' wealth and influence was initially derived from the textile trade guided by the wool guild of Florence, the "Arte della Lana". Like other families ruling in Italian , the Medici dominated their city's government, were able to bring Florence under their family's power, and created an environment in which art and humanism flourished. They and other families of Italy inspired the Italian Renaissance, such as the Visconti and Sforza in Milan, the Este in Ferrara, the Borgia in Rome, and the Gonzaga in Mantua.  The Medici Bank, from when it was created in 1397 to its fall in 1494, was one of the most prosperous and respected institutions in Europe, and the Medici family was considered the wealthiest in Europe for a time. From this base, they acquired political power initially in Florence and later in wider Italy and Europe. They were among the earliest businesses to use the general ledger system of accounting through the development of the double-entry bookkeeping system for tracking credits and debits.  The Medici family have claimed to have funded the invention of the piano and opera, financed the construction of Saint Peter's Basilica and Santa Maria del Fiore, and were patrons of Brunelleschi, Botticelli, Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, Raphael, Machiavelli, Galileo and Francesco Redi among many others in the arts and sciences. They were also protagonists of the counter-reformation, from the beginning of the reformation through the Council of Trent and the French wars of religion.
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP] June 9
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP] IgG4-related disease  IgG4-related disease (IgG4-RD), formerly known as IgG4-related systemic disease, is a chronic inflammatory condition characterized by tissue infiltration with lymphocytes and IgG4-secreting plasma cells, various degrees of fibrosis (scarring) and a usually prompt response to oral steroids. In approximately 51–70% of people with this disease, "serum" IgG4 concentrations are elevated during an acute phase.<ref name="pmid25988916" /><ref name="pmid22736240" /><ref name="pmid22596100" />  It is a relapsing-remitting disease associated with a tendency to mass forming, tissue-destructive lesions in multiple sites, with a characteristic histopathological appearance in whichever site is involved. Inflammation and the deposition of connective tissue in affected anatomical sites can lead to organ dysfunction, organ failure, or even death if not treated.<ref name="pmid25809420" />  Early detection is important to avoid organ damage and potentially serious complications.<ref name="pmid25481618" /> Treatment is recommended in all symptomatic cases of IgG4-RD and also in asymptomatic IgG4-RD involving certain anatomical sites.<ref name="pmid25809420" /><ref name="GeneralRheumatology50768" />
What is Giuseppe Demachi's occupation? [SEP] the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada issued a deportation order for DeMaria. Vincenzo DeMaria Vincenzo "Jimmy" DeMaria (born 1954) is an Italian-Canadian mob boss and businessman originally from Calabria, Italy now based in Mississauga, Ontario, Canada. DeMaria was named in a 2010 Italian police report as one of the top GTA leaders in the 'Ndrangheta's Siderno Group. He also has a seat on the Camera di Controllo. DeMaria was born in Siderno, Calabria, Italy in 1954, and immigrated to Canada with his family in January 1955 at nine months old. On September 20, 1982, DeMaria was convicted of second-degree
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP]  Edward David Redwine (born September 12, 1947) is a North Carolina politician. He served in the North Carolina House of Representatives for almost 20 years and is a candidate in 2010 for the North Carolina Senate seat being vacated by R.C. Soles. Redwine is a member of the board of trustees for East Carolina University, his alma mater, and he is a member of the board of directors for the North Carolina Turnpike Authority.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP]  David Peace (born 1967) is an English writer. Best known for his UK-set novels Red Riding Quartet (1999–2002), GB84 (2004), The Damned Utd (2006), and Red or Dead (2013), Peace was named one of the Best of Young British Novelists by Granta in their 2003 list.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP]  Jarvis John Redwine (born May 16, 1957) is a former American college and professional football player, a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for three seasons during the 1980s. Redwine played college football for the University of Nebraska, and earned All-American honors. He was selected in the second round of the 1981 NFL Draft, and played professionally for the NFL's Minnesota Vikings 1981 to 1983. Born in Los Angeles, California, Redwine played high school football at Inglewood High School. He played college football at Oregon State in 1976 and 1977, then transferred to the University of Nebraska, where he played for head coach Tom Osborne. His first Cornhusker season's performance as a junior in 1979 earned him Osborne's endorsement as Nebraska's best chance at a Heisman Trophy winner since Johnny Rodgers in 1972. Redwine suffered a broken rib midway through his senior season in 1980 and fell back in the Heisman race, in which he finished seventh. Even so, he was the first Cornhusker to rush for 1,000 yards in consecutive seasons, gaining 1,119.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP]  Redd was raised in Murray, Utah. He was educated in the Granite School District, participating in science and music and excelling in auto mechanics. He started his own business doing custom plowing at the age of 11 continuing until leaving on a mission for the LDS church at the age of 19. After serving a mission to Southern Brazil, he continued his education at Brigham Young University, earning a degree in chemistry and graduating with honors. After earning his undergraduate degree, Redd earned a medical degree at the University of Utah School of Medicine. He completed his internship and residency in internal medicine at Oregon Health & Science University.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP]  David Redfearn's birth was registered in Dewsbury district, West Riding of Yorkshire, England.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP] Mike Redwine  Mike Redwine (born May 19, 1964) is a former college football coach. He served as the head football coach at MidAmerica Nazarene University in Olathe, Kansas from 1991 to 2000 and Howard Payne University in Brownwood, Texas from 2005 to 2007, compiling career college football coaching record of 66–69–2.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP] Damon Arnette  Damon Arnette (born September 2, 1996) is an American football cornerback who is a free agent, and an American rapper. He played college football at Ohio State and was drafted by the Las Vegas Raiders in the first round of the 2020 NFL Draft.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP] The Social Network  The Social Network is a 2010 American biographical drama film directed by David Fincher and written by Aaron Sorkin, based on the 2009 book "The Accidental Billionaires" by Ben Mezrich. It portrays the founding of social networking website Facebook. It stars Jesse Eisenberg as the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg, with Andrew Garfield as Eduardo Saverin, Justin Timberlake as Sean Parker, Armie Hammer as Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, and Max Minghella as Divya Narendra. Neither Zuckerberg nor any other Facebook staff were involved with the project, although Saverin was a consultant for Mezrich's book.  Production began when Sorkin signed to write it. Principal photography began that same year in October in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and lasted until November. Additional scenes were shot in California, in the cities of Los Angeles and Pasadena, as a portion of the film Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross of Nine Inch Nails composed the film's score, which was released on September 28, 2010.  The film premiered at the New York Film Festival on September 24, 2010, and was released theatrically in the United States on October 1, by Sony Pictures Releasing. A major critical and commercial success, the film grossed $224 million on a $40 million budget and was widely acclaimed by critics. It was named one of the best films of the year by 78 critics, and named the best by 22 critics, the most of any film that year. It was also chosen by the National Board of Review as the best film of 2010. At the 83rd Academy Awards, it received eight nominations, including for Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Actor for Eisenberg, and won for Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Original Score, and Best Film Editing. It also received awards for Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Director, Best Screenplay, and Best Original Score at the 68th Golden Globe Awards.  "The Social Network" has maintained a strong reputation since its initial release, and is commonly cited by critics as one of the best films of the 2010s and 21st century. The Writers Guild of America ranked Sorkin's screenplay the third greatest of the 21st century. While no official sequel has been announced, Sorkin has publicly expressed interest and willingness to write a screenplay for one should Fincher return to direct.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP] Bob Lilly  Robert Lewis Lilly (born July 26, 1939), nicknamed "Mr. Cowboy", is an American former professional football player who was a defensive tackle. After playing college football for the TCU Horned Frogs, he played for the Dallas Cowboys of the National Football League (NFL) for fourteen seasons. Lilly was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1980 and the College Football Hall of Fame in 1981.
What is E. David Redwine's occupation? [SEP] North Texas Mean Green football statistical leaders  The North Texas Mean Green football statistical leaders are individual statistical leaders of the North Texas Mean Green football program in various categories, including passing, rushing, receiving, total offense, defensive stats, and kicking. Within those areas, the lists identify single-game, single-season, and career leaders. The Mean Green represent the University of North Texas in the NCAA Division I FBS Conference USA through the 2022 season, after which UNT will join the American Athletic Conference.  Although North Texas began competing in intercollegiate football in 1913,<ref name="MG" /> the school's official record book considers the "modern era" to have begun in 1950. Records from before this year are often incomplete and inconsistent, and they are generally not included in these lists.  These lists are dominated by more recent players for several reasons:
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP]  Kyriakos Mavronikolas (born 25 January 1955) is a Cypriot Movement for Social Democracy politician. He served as the Cypriot Minister of Defence from 2003 to 2006, and he sat as a Member of the European Parliament for Cyprus from 2009 to 2012, when he vacated his seat and was replaced by Sophocles Sophocleous. Mavronikolas is a graduate of the University of Athens faculty of medicine, and outside politics he works as an ophthalmologist.
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP]  Stavros V. Kyriakides (Σταύρος Β. Κυριακίδης; born 18 October 1971) is a Cypriot businessman and a cultural manager; Managing Director of Kyriakides Piano Gallery (SVK PIANOTECH LTD), President of Avantgarde Cultural Foundation and President of the Cultural Institute.
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] Kyriakos Mavronikolas (b. 1955), Cypriot Minister of Defence (2003–2006) ; Sotos Zackheos (b. 1950), Special Envoy of the President of Cyprus to Russia (since 2013)
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP]  Kyriakides holds a Masters of Arts degree (MA) in "Cultural Policy and Development" with distinction. He has studied “Stringed Keyboard Instrument Technology” in Edinburgh, Scotland, and “Piano Technology” in two different establishments of the USA. He attended the famed C.F.Theodore Steinway School for Concert Technicians in Hamburg, Germany, and holds the prestigious “Steinway Concert Technician” title. Kyriakides is an individual member of the International Association of Piano Builders and Technicians (to which members are national associations and only on rare occasions individuals are allowed to join) and has been an associate member of the Piano Tuners Association (UK) and the Piano Technicians Guild (USA).
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP]  Kyriakos S. Pittakis or Pittakys (1798–1863) was a Greek archaeologist from Athens. As a youth he fought in the Greek War of Independence against the Ottoman Empire, besieging the Ottoman troops in the Acropolis; according to a dubious and probably fictitious anecdote, he is said to have sent bullets to the opposing army, in hopes to save the Parthenon the Ottoman had started to demolish in order to recover the lead clamps which they intended to use for bullets. In 1824, he left for Corfu, where he studied in the Ionian Academy. After independence, Pittakis became Greece's first General Keeper of Antiquities. From 1837 to 1840, Pittakis supervised the reassembly of the Erechtheion. Though well-intentioned, his ignorance drew criticism from architecture historians and archaeologists. Kyriakos Pittakis campaigned to collect epigraphical material in Athens, gathering inscriptions in the church of Megali Panagia, the Theseum, the Stoa of Hadrian and the Tower of the Winds. Such preservationary efforts have been considered significant contributions to Greek archaeology. He also carried out the first excavations at Mycenae in 1841. He restored the Lion Gate.
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] Kyriakos Mavronikolas  Kyriakos Mavronikolas (born 25 January 1955) is a Cypriot Movement for Social Democracy politician. He served as the Cypriot Minister of Defence from 2003 to 2006, and he sat as a Member of the European Parliament for Cyprus from 2009 to 2012, when he vacated his seat and was replaced by Sophocles Sophocleous. Mavronikolas is a graduate of the University of Athens faculty of medicine, and outside politics he works as an ophthalmologist.
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] National and Kapodistrian University of Athens  The National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (NKUA; , "Ethnikó ke Kapodistriakó Panepistímio Athinón"), usually referred to simply as the University of Athens (UoA), is a public university in Athens, Greece.  It has been in continuous operation since its establishment in 1837 and is the oldest higher education institution of the modern Greek state and the first contemporary university in both the Balkan Peninsula and the Eastern Mediterranean.  The National and Kapodistrian University of Athens is an integral part of the modern Greek academic and intellectual tradition.
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] Stavros V. Kyriakides Stavros V. Kyriakides (; born 18 October 1971) is a Cypriot businessman and a cultural activist; Managing Director of Kyriakides Piano Gallery (SVK PIANOTECH LTD) and, among others, President of the Avantgarde Cultural Foundation. Kyriakides has studied “Stringed Keyboard Instrument Technology” in Edinburgh, Scotland and “Piano Technology” in two different establishments of the USA. He attended the famed C.F.Theodore Steinway School for Concert Technicians in Hamburg, Germany and holds the prestigious “Steinway Concert Technician” title. In October 1993, Kyriakides founded the piano firm SVK PIANOTECH LTD; a private limited company of which he held 90% of the
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] Yannis Sakellarakis Sakellarakis studied archaeology at the University of Athens (Dept of History and Archaeology) and later pursued graduate studies at the University of Heidelberg, where he was awarded a doctorate in 1969. Sakellarakis taught at the Universities of Heidelberg, Hamburg and Athens. He served as the curator (1963-68) and then director (1980-87) of Heraklion Archaeological Museum in Crete and curator (1970-80) and later deputy director (1987-94) of the National Archaeological Museum in Athens. He excavated sites at Archanes, Kythira and Mount Ida. Sakellarakis attracted international attention in 1979, when, while excavating the hill of Anemospilia in Archanes with his
What is Kyriakos Mavronikolas's occupation? [SEP] Leleges, Havana, Myrmidons, Minoans, Arkadians etc.). Kassis work, although being much influential, is at the same time until today the object of many a bad imitation and even plagiarism, since many draw information and entire units of research from his work and presenting them as their own, even doing so in doctoral theses in Greece and abroad, without even referencing him as source. Kyriakos D. Kassis Kyriakos Kassis (born March 1946) is a Greek poet, and painter. He studied at the Legal Faculty of the University of Athens, in the department of Law, Political and Economic studies and in the
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]  For the American politician, see John Blake Jr. (politician). John Edward Blake Jr. (July 3, 1947 – August 15, 2014) was an American jazz violinist from South Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. He performed most prominently as a sideman in groups led by Grover Washington Jr. (in the late 1970s) and McCoy Tyner (in the early 1980s), as well as led his own groups. He died on August 15, 2014 from complications of multiple myeloma.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]  John Blake Jr. (December 5, 1762 – January 13, 1826) was an American lawyer and politician and a U. S. Representative from New York.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]  Blake was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on March 25, 1831. He received a classical education and moved to Orange, New Jersey, in 1846. He studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1852 and commenced practice in Orange. He was a member of the New Jersey General Assembly in 1857 and was a delegate to the 1876 Republican National Convention.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]  John Lauris Blake (March 25, 1831, in Boston, Massachusetts &ndash; October 10, 1899, in West Orange, New Jersey) was an American Republican Party politician who represented New Jersey's 6th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives from 1879 to 1881.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]  John Lauris Blake (December 21, 1788 – July 6, 1857) was an American clergyman and bestselling author. He is best known as the author of the General Biographical Dictionary.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP] Wesley Blake  Cory James Weston (born September 4, 1987) is an American professional wrestler currently working on the independent circuit under the ring name Westin Blake. He is best known for his time in WWE, where he performed under the ring name Wesley Blake.  Weston debuted in 2011 under his real name on the Florida independent circuit, most notably for Dory Funk Jr.'s Funking Conservatory. He signed with WWE in 2013, portraying a cowboy gimmick in NXT during his first year. He later formed a tag team with Buddy Murphy, and the two, managed by Alexa Bliss, won the NXT Tag Team Championship once. After several years, he formed a stable with Jaxson Ryker and Steve Cutler called The Forgotten Sons. In 2020, the stable began working on SmackDown. He was released from WWE on April 15, 2021. Soon after, he announced on his social media that his new ring name would be Westin Blake.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP] John Seward Johnson II  John Seward Johnson II (April 16, 1930 – March 10, 2020), also known as J. Seward Johnson Jr. and Seward Johnson, was an American artist known for "trompe-l'œil" painted bronze statues. He was a grandson of Robert Wood Johnson I, the co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, and of Colonel Thomas Melville Dill of Bermuda.  He designed life-size bronze statues that were castings of living people, depicting them engaged in day-to-day activities. A large staff of technicians did the fabrication of the works he designed. Computers and digital technology often were used in the manufacturing process. Sometimes the manufacture was contracted in China. He was the founder of Grounds For Sculpture, a sculpture park and museum located in Hamilton Township, Mercer County, New Jersey.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP] March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom  The March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom, also known as simply the March on Washington or The Great March on Washington, was held in Washington, D.C., on August 28, 1963. The purpose of the march was to advocate for the civil and economic rights of African Americans. At the march, final speaker Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., standing in front of the Lincoln Memorial, delivered his historic "I Have a Dream" speech in which he called for an end to racism.  The march was organized by A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin, who built an alliance of civil rights, labor, and religious organizations Observers estimated that 75–80% of the marchers were black. The march was one of the largest political rallies for human rights in United States history. Walter Reuther, president of the United Auto Workers, was the most integral and highest-ranking white organizer of the march.  The march is credited with helping to pass the Civil Rights Act of 1964. It preceded the Selma Voting Rights Movement, when national media coverage contributed to passage of the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that same year.
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP] John Black (Days of Our Lives)  John Black is a fictional character from "Days of Our Lives", an American soap opera on the NBC network. He has been played by actor Drake Hogestyn since 1986, with a break in between from January 2009 to September 2011. John was created by script writers Sheri Anderson, Thom Racina and Leah Laiman as The Pawn in 1985 and introduced by executive producers Betty Corday and Al Rabin. John becomes one of the series' most popular characters when he is revealed to be the presumed dead Roman Brady (Wayne Northrop) with plastic surgery and amnesia. However, Northrop's return in 1991 led to Hogestyn's Roman being retconned into the entirely separate character of John Black, which also establishes the supercouple pairing of John and Marlena, due to John's affair with Roman's wife, Marlena Evans (Deidre Hall). Hogestyn was attributed with helping the series out of its ratings slump in the 1980s. He was often featured in soap opera magazines, such as "Soap Opera Digest" and "Soap Opera Weekly".
What is John Blake, Jr.'s occupation? [SEP]
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP]  Mami Matsui (松井摩味) is a Japanese voice actress affiliated with Aoni Production. She is also credited as Mami.
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP]  Fuyuko Matsui (松井冬子) is a female contemporary Japanese artist, specialized in Nihonga paintings. She is known for her "new Kusozu" series. Matsui has been making her works based on her psychoanalysis results, putting heavy weight on her feelings and interests in violence, experience of loss, repression, stress, and trauma. Through the process of self-investigation, she found her works universal to all living beings—life and death, sex, self-love, self-mutilation, self and the other, this world and the next, desire and passions.
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP]  Mami Matsuyama (松山 まみ) is a Japanese idol, singer, and actress. She has released a number of DVDs. She is best known for her role as Remi Freedle in Chousei Kantai Sazer-X. Matsuyama cosplayed as Mao Ran, a character in a video game titled Fighting Beauty Wulong. In 2006, she portrayed Shiori in Gal Circle. In 2007, Matsuyama released her debut single entitled "Matataku Mami: Mitsumete Hoshii". She also starred in the television drama Body Conscious Cop in that year.
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP]  Matsui earned her Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A.) in Painting from Joshibi Junior College of Art and Design in 1994. In 2002 and 2004, she earned her bachelor's and master's degree of fine arts in Japanese Painting from Tokyo University of the Arts. Later in 2007, Matsui obtained her Doctoral Degree (PhD) in Japanese Painting with her doctoral dissertation "The Inescapable Awakening to Pain, Through Visual Perception via the Sensory Nerves."
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP]  Matsui was born in 1984 in Okayama, Japan where she grew up. As a student, she studied oil painting and went on to win the Shell Art Award in 2004. Her education also led her to study abroad in Finland as an exchange student at the University of Art & Design Helsinki in 2006. She graduated in 2008 with a B.F.A. from Tama Art University in Tokyo, and completed her M.A. in 2010 at the Tokyo University of the Arts. She continued her education in 2012 by fulfilling an artist residency at the Kunstlerhaus Bethanien in Germany, having been sponsored as a fellow for Japan's Agency of Cultural Affairs Overseas Training Program.
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP] Hand Maid May
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP] List of Kerberos Saga characters  This is a character guide to the radio drama, film, manga and anime works "Kerberos saga" (ケルベロス・サーガ, "keruberosu saga"). Characters are sorted by organizations or groups according to the original works. The English adaptation equivalents are mentioned when available.
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP] Miss Nippon
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP] Anna Carlsson  Anna Carlsson (born August 24, 1973) is a German voice actress from Frankfurt am Main. She voices in the German-language dubs of a number of animation and anime productions including "Kim Possible". "The Little Mermaid", "", "Cardcaptor Sakura", "Dr. Slump" and "Dragon Ball". In live-action dubbing she voiced in "Desperate Housewives", "Angel" and "Samantha Who?". She is the dub voice for Eva Longoria, Piper Perabo, Zooey Deschanel, and Amy Smart on a number of films and shows.<ref name="resume"/> She is fluent in the languages of German, English and Swedish.<ref name="resume"/>
What is Mami Matsui's occupation? [SEP] Chiaki Omigawa
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]  Marie-France Mignal (born 3 April 1940), is a French actress. She is the co-director of the Théâtre Saint-Georges, with France Delahalle. She is known for her work in television, cinema (Weekend at Dunkirk, The Two Orphans), and in adverts.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]  Aline Marie Raynal (born 1937) is a French botanist and botanical illustrator noted for studying the taxonomy of parasitic and aquatic tropical plants, as well as plants of the Sahel desert. She was professor of botany at the Muséum National d´Histoire Naturelle de Paris. In 1995, her work was honored by the Institut de France. The minor planet 8651 Alineraynal was named in her honor.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]  Marie-Hélène Mathieu (born 4 July 1929) is a French disability rights activist. She is co-founder of the international movement Faith and Light; with Jean Vanier, she has dedicated her life’s work to people with disabilities and to their families and friends. Through her testimonies, Marie-Hélène Mathieu continues to be involved in the lives of these support structures that she has created, in order to ensure that the person with a disability, irrespective of the severity, finds their unique, rightful place in society.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]  Marie-Sœurette Mathieu (born August 10, 1949 in Port-au-Prince) is a Haitian sociologist, teacher and writer who lives currently in Quebec. She is also a painter. She left her native land in 1970 and went first to the United States and later to Quebec. She studied sociology and education at the UQAM, and she is a member of UNEQ and the Société littéraire de Laval, French organisation in Laval, Québec.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]  Marie-Thérèse Letablier (born 4 January 1947), is a French sociologist. Her major sociological works concern work, family and gender issues. She is Research director in the French National Center for Scientific Research (CNRS) and a senior research fellow in the Paris Centre d’Economie de la Sorbonne (CES). Marie Thérèse Letablier is a member of the Executing Committee of the European Sociological Association (or ESA), an association aimed to facilitate sociological research, teaching and communication on European issues, and to build networks between European sociologists. As a woman who has grown up during the seventies, she has developed research interests concerning family and gender issues. They have been mainly studied in a European comparative perspective. She has participated in several European research networks: on Families and Family Policies (for Sweden and France), on Gender and Employment (for Germany and France), on Social practices and Social Policies with regard to working and mothering, and on Childcare services.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP] Children of the Century  Children of the Century () is a 1999 French film based on the true tale of the tumultuous love affair between two French literary icons of the 19th century, novelist George Sand (Juliette Binoche) and poet Alfred de Musset (Benoît Magimel).
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP] Prix du Brigadier  The Prix du Brigadier, established in 1960 by the (ART), is an award given to a personality from the world of theater.  The dramatist Jean Anouilh, having rejected all official honors, declared that in his opinion, the only worthwhile reward was the "Prix du Brigadier" which had been granted to him in 1971. Three other authors have also received this award: Françoise Sagan in 1960; Eugène Ionesco in 1966; and Florian Zeller in 2014.
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP] Josephine, Guardian Angel  Josephine, Guardian Angel (Joséphine, ange gardien) is a French television series. It has been aired since 1997 on TF1 (France).
What is Marie-France Mignal's occupation? [SEP]
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]   Johannes Andreas Rüdiger (1 November 1673 – 6 June 1731) was a German philosopher and physicist.
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]  Antonio Rüdiger (born 3 March 1993) is a German professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for club Chelsea and the Germany national team. Rüdiger began his career at VfB Stuttgart, representing their reserves in 3. Liga and the first team in the Bundesliga. In 2015 he joined Roma, initially on loan and a year later for a €9 million fee. He was signed by Chelsea in 2017 for an estimated £27 million, where he won the FA Cup in his first season, followed by the UEFA Europa League in his second season, and the UEFA Champions League in 2021. He made his international debut for Germany in March 2014. He was forced to miss UEFA Euro 2016 due to an injury suffered earlier in the season but he was part of the squad that won the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup. He kept his spot in the squad for the 2018 World Cup, and later also took part at UEFA Euro 2020.
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP] Antonio Rüdiger (b. 1993), German footballer ; Prince Rüdiger of Saxony (b. 1953), German prince ; Rüdiger Abramczik (b. 1956), German footballer ; Maria Rüdiger-Belyaeva mother of John Shalikashvili ; Rüdiger Gamm (b. 1971), German "mental calculator" ; Rüdiger von der Goltz (1865-1945), German army general during the First World War, one of the principal commanders of Finnish Civil War, Latvian War of Independence, Battle of Cēsis (1919) and Estonian War of Independence ; Rüdiger Haas (b. 1969), German tennis player ; Rüdiger Heining (b. 1968), German agrarscientist and economist ; Rüdiger Nehberg (1935-2020), German human rights activist, author and survival expert ; Rüdiger Overmans, (born 1954), German historian specialized in World War II ; Rüdiger Safranski (b. 1945), German philosopher and author. ; Rüdiger Schleicher (1895-1945), German resistance fighter ; Ernst Rüdiger von Starhemberg (1638–1701), Austrian politician, military general and chief of Vienna, one of the principal commanders of Battle of Vienna ; Ernst Rüdiger Starhemberg (1899-1956), Austrian nationalist and politician who helped introduce austrofascism and install a clerico-fascist dictatorship in Austria, chancellor of Federal State of Austria ; Rüdiger Vogler (b. 1942), German film actor
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]  Rudi (played by Michael Pascher) is a repairman at the heliport Christophorus 14. Emilie Hofer (played by Stefanie von Poser) is a friend of the whole team and especially Tobias Herbrechter whom she marries in series seven. She has two children and a farm which she manages with the help of Andreas Marthaler after the death of her first husband Stefan Hofer. Later she takes in Andreas' father Franz Marthaler and transforms the farm into a pension and in series seven invites Markus Kofler to stay as well even though her husband Tobias is still at loggerheads with him. She is strong, independent, cares deeply for her family and friends and lives
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]  Andreas Rebers (born 7 January 1958) is a Kabarett artist, author and musician from Munich. His shows often incorporate performances on the accordion or the piano.
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP] Andreas Christensen  Andreas Bødtker Christensen (born 10 April 1996) is a Danish professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for La Liga club Barcelona and the Denmark national team.  Christensen began his career at Skjold Birkerød and later joined Brøndby. He joined Chelsea at the age of 15 in February 2012, making his professional debut in October 2014. From 2015 to 2017, he was loaned to Bundesliga club Borussia Mönchengladbach, where he made 82 appearances and scored 7 goals.  Christensen made his full international debut for Denmark in June 2015, and represented the nation at the 2018 FIFA World Cup, UEFA Euro 2020 and the 2022 World Cup.
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP]
What is Andreas Rüdiger's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Tuchel  Thomas Tuchel (; born 29 August 1973) is a German professional football manager and former player who last managed Premier League club Chelsea.  Born in Krumbach, Tuchel retired at age 25 after a chronic knee cartilage injury; in 2000, he began his coaching career as a youth coach at VfB Stuttgart, and in 2009, after a one-year period at FC Augsburg II, he was hired by Mainz 05. He departed Mainz in 2014 and was appointed at fellow Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund in 2015, where he won the DFB-Pokal before being dismissed in 2017. He was hired by French club Paris Saint-Germain in 2018, where he won two league titles, including a domestic quadruple in his second season, and guided the club to its first UEFA Champions League final before being dismissed in 2020.  Tuchel was appointed by Chelsea in 2021 and won the Champions League in his debut season. He was dismissed as manager in September 2022.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Robert Grier Lewis (born December 5, 1916 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, died January 6, 2011 in Ormond-by-the-Sea, Florida) was an American photographer, editor and author in the field of railways.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Robert Kennedy Lewis is a St Lucian Politician representing the Saint Lucia Labour Party. He was elected to the House of Assembly of Saint Lucia following the election of 11 December 2006 as the member of parliament for Castries South. Previous to his election Dr Lewis was Supervisor and Examiner of National Examinations in Mathematics from 1992 to 2006. In January 2005 he received a Phd in Mathematics from the University of Otago.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Attribution
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Bert Robert Lewis, Sr. (November 11, 1931 &ndash; April 24, 1979) was an American veterinarian and politician. Lewis was born in Hutchinson, Kansas and was an African-American. He received his degrees in animal husbandry in 1953, biological science in 1958, and in veterinarian medicine in 1960 from Kansas State University. Lewis served in the United States Army during the Korean War. In 1962, Lewis moved to St. Louis Park, Minnesota and was a veterinarian. Lewis served on the St. Louis Park School Board from 1967 to 1971 and on the Minnesota Board of Education. Lewis served in the Minnesota Senate from 1973 until his death in 1979 and was a Democrat. He died from a heart attack at his home in Golden Valley, Minnesota. His body laid in state at the Minnesota State Capitol.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Robert Lewis (born August 19, 1943) is a Canadian journalist, author and media executive who served as editor-in-chief of Maclean's Magazine. In 2018 Dundurn Press published his book, Power, Prime Ministers and the Press: The Battle for Truth on Parliament Hill, a history of the Canadian Parliamentary press gallery (Dundurn Press, October 2018). In 2019 it was selected for the long list of the Taylor Prize for literary non-fiction. The book is based on interviews and archival research about the interplay between reporters and Canada's 23 prime ministers. Lewis is a former editor-in-chief of Maclean's newsmagazine (1993–2000) and was a member of the Parliamentary Press Gallery for more than a decade. After graduating with an English degree from Loyola College in 1964, Lewis worked as a reporter for The Montreal Star. He was bureau chief for Time Magazine in
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP] John Lewis  John Robert Lewis (February 21, 1940 – July 17, 2020) was an American politician and civil rights activist who served in the United States House of Representatives for from 1987 until his death in 2020. He participated in the 1960 Nashville sit-ins, the Freedom Rides, was the chairman of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) from 1963 to 1966, and was one of the "Big Six" leaders of groups who organized the 1963 March on Washington. Fulfilling many key roles in the civil rights movement and its actions to end legalized racial segregation in the United States, in 1965 Lewis led the first of three Selma to Montgomery marches across the Edmund Pettus Bridge where, in an incident which became known as Bloody Sunday, state troopers and police attacked Lewis and the other marchers.  A member of the Democratic Party, Lewis was first elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1986 and served 17 terms. The district he represented included most of Atlanta. Due to his length of service, he became the dean of the Georgia congressional delegation. Lewis was one of the leaders of the Democratic Party in the House, serving from 1991 as a chief deputy whip and from 2003 as a senior chief deputy whip. He received many honorary degrees and awards, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2011.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP] Robert Louis Stevenson  Robert Louis Stevenson (born Robert Lewis Balfour Stevenson; 13 November 1850 – 3 December 1894) was a Scottish novelist, essayist, poet, and travel writer. He is best known for works such as "Treasure Island", "Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde", "Kidnapped" and "A Child's Garden of Verses".  Born and educated in Edinburgh, Stevenson suffered from serious bronchial trouble for much of his life, but continued to write prolifically and travel widely in defiance of his poor health. As a young man, he mixed in London literary circles, receiving encouragement from Andrew Lang, Edmund Gosse, Leslie Stephen and W. E. Henley, the last of whom may have provided the model for Long John Silver in "Treasure Island". In 1890, he settled in Samoa where, alarmed at increasing European and American influence in the South Sea islands, his writing turned away from romance and adventure fiction toward a darker realism. He died of a stroke in his island home in 1894 at age 44.<ref name=":0" />  A celebrity in his lifetime, Stevenson's critical reputation has fluctuated since his death, though today his works are held in general acclaim. In 2018 he was ranked, just behind Charles Dickens, as the 26th-most-translated author in the world.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP] Robert Lewis Dabney  Robert Lewis Dabney (March 5, 1820 – January 3, 1898) was an American Christian theologian, Southern Presbyterian pastor, Confederate States Army chaplain, and architect. He was also chief of staff and biographer to Stonewall Jackson. His biography of Jackson remains in print today.  Dabney and James Henley Thornwell were two of Southern Presbyterianism's most influential scholars. They were both Calvinist, Old School Presbyterians, and social conservatives. Some conservative Presbyterians, particularly within the Presbyterian Church in America and the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, still value their theological writings, although some within these churches have repudiated Dabney's and Thornwell's beliefs on race and support of antebellum slavery.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP] Robert Lewis (director)  Robert Lewis (March 16, 1909 – November 23, 1997) was an American actor, director, teacher, author and founder of the influential Actors Studio in New York in 1947.  In addition to his accomplishments on Broadway and in Hollywood, Lewis' greatest and longest lasting contribution to American theater may be the role he played as one of the foremost acting and directing teachers of his day. He was an early proponent of the Stanislavski System of acting technique and a founding member of New York's revolutionary Group Theatre in the 1930s. In the 1970s, he was the Head of the Yale School of Drama Acting and Directing Departments.
What is Robert Lewis's occupation? [SEP] Robert A. Lewis  Robert Alvin Lewis (October 18, 1917 – June 18, 1983) was a United States Army Air Forces officer serving in the Pacific Theatre during World War II. He was the co-pilot and aircraft commander of the "Enola Gay", the B-29 Superfortress bomber which dropped the atomic bomb Little Boy on the Japanese city of Hiroshima on 6 August 1945.
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Cor es de bos aips complida ; deu esser enantida ; sa valors, s'ap si m'acueill; ; enquer n'er meils que d'Enida ; can Erecs l'ac enrequida, ; quar mais la tem e l'am meils. Guillem Ramon de Gironella was a late thirteenth-century Catalan troubadour. His poetry, while difficult, is highly original and praised for its beauty. Guillem Ramon was from Gironella in the Berguedà. There are many persons carrying the name "Ramon de Gironella" in twelfth- and thirteenth-century documents, but no others named "Guillem Ramon". The troubadour has been identified with a person bearing the initials "G.R." marked on a tomb in the monastery of Sant Daniel de Girona and
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP]  (lord of Gironella), but Guillem Ramon was not the feudal lord of Gironella nor even a nobleman, but a cleric. Whether Cerverí was confused or Guillem Ramon only took up his clerical career late in life is not known. In two of his cansos&mdash;"Gen m'apareill" and "La clara lutz del bel jorn"&mdash;Guillem Ramon celebrates a person by the senhal (or nickname) Sobreluenh ("Over-a-distance"), but whether this is his lady or a friend, like the viscount of Cardona or Cabrera is debated. Ramon Guillem was familiar with the poem Erec and Enide of Chrétien de Troyes, as he makes known in "Gen m'apareill": He also wrote the canso "Pos l'amors r'ensen".
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP]  next to the tomb of his mother, Brunissendis de Gerundella. If this identification is correct, then Guillem Ramon was the canon Guillelmus Raimundi de Gerundella whose death is recorded in monastic records on 8 July of an unknown year. All of Guillem Ramon's surviving poetry, four works in total, is preserved in a single chansonnier, three cansos under the full name Guilem Raimon de Gironela and one partimen with the jongleur Pouzet under the name Guilem Raimon. Towards the end of this piece, "Del joi d'amor agradiu", Guillem suggests submitting it to the judgement of la de Palau ("[she] of Palau"), but the lady and the Palau to which this
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Riquer, Martín de. Los trovadores: historia literaria y textos. 3 vol. Barcelona: Planeta, 1975.
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP]  are not securely identifiable. The contemporary Catalan troubadour Cerverí de Girona, in his Recepta de xarob, wrote (between 1260 and 1285): E si Na Guyllamona (or Guillemona) ''/ lay a Palau, vos dona / un pauc de cuyndia. . . . The lady Guillemona may be the la de Palau of Guillem Ramon's partimen''. If so, this would establish a link between the obscure Guillem Ramon and the famous Cerverí, putting the former in better context. One further reference from Cerverí, however, throws the identification of Guillem Ramon the troubadour with the canon into doubt. Cerverí, in his Testament (1274), says that En Poncet is grateful to the don de
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Guillem Ramon de Gironella  Guillem Ramon de Gironella was a late thirteenth-century Catalan troubadour. His poetry, while difficult, is highly original and praised for its beauty.  Guillem Ramon was from Gironella in the Berguedà. There are many persons carrying the name "Ramon de Gironella" in twelfth- and thirteenth-century documents, but no others named "Guillem Ramon". The troubadour has been identified with a person bearing the initials "G.R." marked on a tomb in the monastery of Sant Daniel de Girona and lying next to the tomb of his mother, Brunissendis de Gerundella. If this identification is correct, then Guillem Ramon was the canon "Guillelmus Raimundi de Gerundella" whose death is recorded in monastic records on 8 July of an unknown year.  All of Guillem Ramon's surviving poetry, four works in total, is preserved in a single chansonnier, three "cansos" under the full name "Guilem Raimon de Gironela" and one "partimen" with the jongleur Pouzet under the name "Guilem Raimon". Towards the end of this piece, "Del joi d'amor agradiu", Guillem suggests submitting it to the judgement of "la de Palau" ("[she] of Palau"), but the lady and the Palau to which this refers are not securely identifiable. The contemporary Catalan troubadour Cerverí de Girona, in his "Recepta de xarob", wrote (between 1260 and 1285): "E si Na Guyllamona" (or "Guillemona") "/ lay a Palau, vos dona / un pauc de cuyndia. . . ." The lady Guillemona may be the "la de Palau" of Guillem Ramon's "partimen". If so, this would establish a link between the obscure Guillem Ramon and the famous Cerverí, putting the former in better context.  One further reference from Cerverí, however, throws the identification of Guillem Ramon the troubadour with the canon into doubt. Cerverí, in his "Testament" (1274), says that "En Poncet" is grateful to the "don de Gironella" (lord of Gironella), but Guillem Ramon was not the feudal lord of Gironella nor even a nobleman, but a cleric. Whether Cerverí was confused or Guillem Ramon only took up his clerical career late in life is not known.  In two of his "cansos"—"Gen m'apareill" and "La clara lutz del bel jorn"—Guillem Ramon celebrates a person by the "senhal" (or nickname) "Sobreluenh" ("Over-a-distance"), but whether this is his lady or a friend, like the viscount of Cardona or Cabrera is debated. Ramon Guillem was familiar with the poem "Erec and Enide" of Chrétien de Troyes, as he makes known in "Gen m'apareill": He also wrote the "canso" "Pos l'amors r'ensen".
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Troubadour  A troubadour (, ; ) was a composer and performer of Old Occitan lyric poetry during the High Middle Ages (1100–1350). Since the word "troubadour" is etymologically masculine, a female troubadour is usually called a "trobairitz".  The troubadour school or tradition began in the late 11th century in Occitania, but it subsequently spread to the Italian and Iberian Peninsulas. Under the influence of the troubadours, related movements sprang up throughout Europe: the Minnesang in Germany, "trovadorismo" in Galicia and Portugal, and that of the trouvères in northern France. Dante Alighieri in his "De vulgari eloquentia" defined the troubadour lyric as "fictio rethorica musicaque poita": rhetorical, musical, and poetical fiction. After the "classical" period around the turn of the 13th century and a mid-century resurgence, the art of the troubadours declined in the 14th century and around the time of the Black Death (1348) it died out.  The texts of troubadour songs deal mainly with themes of chivalry and courtly love. Most were metaphysical, intellectual, and formulaic. Many were humorous or vulgar satires. Works can be grouped into three styles: the "trobar leu" (light), "trobar ric" (rich), and "trobar clus" (closed). Likewise there were many genres, the most popular being the "canso", but "sirventes" and "tensos" were especially popular in the post-classical period.
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Erasmo Janer Gironella José Erasmo Janer Gironella (1833-1911) was a Spanish entrepreneur and politician. As a businessman he is considered a member of the textile-industry-related Catalan bourgeoisie, which enjoyed peak of its power in the mid-19th century; Janer represented this group during its declining phase. Politically he earned his name as a Carlist and headed the Catalan branch of the party between 1902 and 1910. Some scholars consider the Janer family past an illustration of social history in Catalonia, its rise and decline demonstrating patterns of change within the local ruling strata. Erasmo's paternal grandfather Domingo Janer Sunyer (1762-1807) was
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] jurisdiction, both high and low, for 16,500 Aragonese "sous" from John I. From 1395 to 1397 and again from 1398 to 1401 he served as governor of the Kingdom of Majorca. His lieutenant was Berenguer de Montagut. Ramon d'Abella Ramon d'Abella (fl. 1389–1401) was a Catalan military leader and royal councillor under John I and Martin of the Crown of Aragon. During the "guerra dels armanyaguesos" in 1389, Ramon led a regiment of cavalry in the area around Torroella de Montgrí and Palafrugell. The young poet Guillem de Masdovelles fought under Ramon in these campaigns against Bernard VII of Armagnac
What is Guillem Ramon de Gironella's occupation? [SEP] Cerverí de Girona, in his "Recepta de xarob", wrote (between 1260 and 1285): "E si Na Guyllamona" (or "Guillemona") "/ lay a Palau, vos dona / un pauc de cuyndia. . . ." The lady Guillemona may be the "la de Palau" of Guillem Ramon's "partimen". If so, this would establish a link between the obscure Guillem Ramon and the famous Cerverí, putting the former in better context. One further reference from Cerverí, however, throws the identification of Guillem Ramon the troubadour with the canon into doubt. Cerverí, in his "Testament" (1274), says that "En Poncet" is grateful to the
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]  Don R. Swanson (October 10, 1924 – November 18, 2012) was an American information scientist, most known for his work in literature-based discovery in the biomedical domain. His particular method has been used as a model for further work, and is often referred to as Swanson linking. He was an investigator in the Arrowsmith System project, which seeks to determine meaningful links between Medline articles to identify previously undiscovered public knowledge. He had been professor emeritus of the University of Chicago since 1996, and remained active in a post-retirement appointment until his health began to decline in 2009. Swanson received his B.S. in
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]  Robert S. Swanson was born in Brooklyn, New York, in 1947 to Arthur J. Swanson and Arline Baker Swanson. Arthur Swanson was an airplane electrical maintenance crew leader, and worked in shifts. According to Swanson, he was taught from an early age that his generation would do better than the last generation of his family. It was because of this that his family wanted him to be the first to obtain a college degree. His family was particularly interested in the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). Much to his family's pride, Swanson was accepted into MIT in 1965. Even though he was majoring in chemistry, he realized later during his undergraduate education that he preferred working with people, rather than in research. What follows is an excerpt from a 1996 interview that describes
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]  Swanson was born in Oakland, California. He earned an associate's degree in psychology from Laney College and a Bachelor of Arts degree in psychology from San Francisco State University.
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]  Arthur R. Swanson (May 28, 1926 &ndash; October 29, 2010) was an American businessman and politician. Swanson was born in Chicago's Roseland neighborhood and attended Chicago public schools. Swanson went to the Morgan Park Junior College. He then served in the United States Army as a paratrooper during World War II in the Pacific. Swanson was involved in the real estate business in Chicago. In the 1962 general election, Swanson defeated Democratic incumbent Robert Maher in a close race. He served as a Republican in the Illinois Senate from 1963 to 1971 from the 28th district. The 28th district, located on the southwest side of Chicago, included all or parts of Mount
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]  Dick L. Swanson (born 1934) is an American photographer and a war photographer with numerous images published in the United States.
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP]
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP] China–United States trade war  The China–United States trade war () is an ongoing economic conflict between the People's Republic of China and the United States of America. In January 2018, U.S. President Donald Trump began setting tariffs and other trade barriers on China with the goal of forcing it to make changes to what the U.S. says are longstanding unfair trade practices and intellectual property theft. The Trump administration stated that these practices may contribute to the U.S.–China trade deficit, and that the Chinese government requires transfer of American technology to China. In response to US trade measures, the Chinese government accused the Trump administration of engaging in nationalist protectionism and took retaliatory action. After the trade war escalated through 2019, in January 2020 the two sides reached a tense phase one agreement; it expired in December 2021 with China failing by a wide margin to reach its targets for U.S. imports to China. By the end of the Trump presidency, the trade war was widely characterized as a failure.<ref name="Fajgelbaum"/><ref>Multiple sources:
What is Alan Mauritz Swanson's occupation? [SEP] List of University of Pennsylvania people  This is a working list of notable faculty, alumni and scholars of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia, United States.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP]  Harvey William Burk (1822 in Darlington Township, Upper Canada – October 13, 1907) was a politician and farmer. Burk was educated in Darlington Township. He was married twice: to Roley Williams in 1848 and to Susan Armour in 1859. He operated a farm near Bowmanville. Burk served on the township council and was reeve from 1873 to 1874. He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada as a Member the Liberal Party to represent Durham West in 1874. He won a landslide victory in 1878. Burk resigned October 18, 1879 to allow Edward Blake to be elected. His daughter Mary Emily married Sam Hughes.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP]  Harvey Adam Surface (July 25, 1867 – July 18, 1941) was an American zoologist. He was for 15 years Economic Zoologist for the Pennsylvania Department of Agriculture, and later served three terms in the state legislature. Born in Waynesville, Ohio to a prominent farming family, he graduated from Ohio State University in 1891, and earned a M.S. the following year. After teaching at University of the Pacific and Cornell, he became Professor of Zoology at Pennsylvania State College (1900–1907), and Professor of Biology at Susquehanna University (1920–1930). His work focused on the wildlife and plants of Pennsylvania. He was ornithological editor of American Gardening, nature study editor of Popular Educator, member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, Pennsylvania Academy of Science, and Pennsylvania Audubon Society, and was president of the Pennsylvania Beekeeper’s Association for 18 years. In 1931 he was elected to the Pennsylvania House of Representatives as Representative from Snyder County, where he served until 1936.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP]  William André Harvey (October 9, 1941 – February 6, 2018) was an American sculptor whose realistic and contemporary works are primarily cast in bronze using the lost wax method. Harvey also worked in granite, collage, painting, and produced intricate sculptural jewelry cast in gold. He worked in the Brandywine Valley, in Rockland near Wilmington, Delaware.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP]  William Harvey (1754–1779) was a British politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1775 to 1779. Harvey was the eldest son of William Harvey of Rolls Park, Essex, and his wife  Emma Skynner, daughter of Stephen Skynner of Walthamstow, Essex, and was born on 10 September 1754. He was admitted at Trinity College, Cambridge on 3 November 1771. Harvey was abroad when he was approved unanimously at a county meeting and was then returned unopposed as Member of Parliament for Essex at a by-election on 28 November 1775. In Parliament, he only voted once and is not known to have spoken. Harvey died unmarried on 24 April 1779 and was buried at Hempstead, Essex. His estates passed to his brother Eliab Harvey.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP]  George Clifton (1823–1913) Mr G. Clifton is mentioned in Harvey's Memoirs, as the Superintendent of the Water Police in Perth, West Australia whose boat Harvey used when collecting in Fremantle (Blackler, 1977). Some of his specimens are in the Ulster Museum Herbarium: BEL: F2195; F2196 from "W.Australia." Ronald Campbell Gunn (1808–1881) Harvey's specimens in the Ulster Museum are from George Town. The handwriting has been determined by Dr H. B. S. Womersley (1980): F2256; F2242; F2083; F2081 and others. Harvey was an honorary M.D. of Dublin University (1844) and F.R.S. (1858). His portrait is in the National Gallery of Ireland, Dublin.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP] Harvey William Burk  Harvey William Burk (1822 in Darlington Township, Upper Canada – October 13, 1907) was a politician and farmer.  Burk was educated in Darlington Township. He was married twice: to Roley Williams in 1848 and to Susan Armour in 1859. He operated a farm near Bowmanville. Burk served on the township council and was reeve from 1873 to 1874. He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada as a Member the Liberal Party to represent Durham West in 1874. He won a landslide victory in 1878. Burk resigned October 18, 1879 to allow Edward Blake to be elected.<ref name="johnson"/>  His daughter Mary Emily married Sam Hughes.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP] Edmund Burke  Edmund Burke (; 12 January <nowiki>[</nowiki>NS<nowiki>]</nowiki> 1729 – 9 July 1797) was an Anglo-Irish statesman, economist, and philosopher. Born in Dublin, Burke served as a member of Parliament (MP) between 1766 and 1794 in the House of Commons of Great Britain with the Whig Party.  Burke was a proponent of underpinning virtues with manners in society and of the importance of religious institutions for the moral stability and good of the state. These views were expressed in his "A Vindication of Natural Society". He criticised the actions of the British government towards the American colonies, including its taxation policies. Burke also supported the rights of the colonists to resist metropolitan authority, although he opposed the attempt to achieve independence. He is remembered for his support for Catholic emancipation, the impeachment of Warren Hastings from the East India Company, and his staunch opposition to the French Revolution.  In his "Reflections on the Revolution in France", Burke asserted that the revolution was destroying the fabric of good society and traditional institutions of state and society and condemned the persecution of the Catholic Church that resulted from it. This led to his becoming the leading figure within the conservative faction of the Whig Party which he dubbed the Old Whigs as opposed to the pro–French Revolution New Whigs led by Charles James Fox.  In the 19th century, Burke was praised by both conservatives and liberals. Subsequently, in the 20th century, he became widely regarded, especially in the United States, as the philosophical founder of conservatism.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP] Harvey Mansfield  Harvey Claflin Mansfield Jr. (born March 21, 1932) is an American political philosopher. He is the William R. Kenan, Jr. Professor of Government at Harvard University, where he has taught since 1962. He has held Guggenheim and NEH Fellowships and has been a Fellow at the National Humanities Center; he also received the National Humanities Medal in 2004 and delivered the Jefferson Lecture in 2007. He is a Carol G. Simon Senior Fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution. He is notable for his generally conservative stance on political issues in his writings.  Mansfield is the author and co-translator of studies of and/or by major political philosophers such as Aristotle, Edmund Burke, Niccolò Machiavelli, Alexis de Tocqueville, and Thomas Hobbes, of Constitutional government, and of "Manliness" (2006). In interviews Mansfield has acknowledged the work of Leo Strauss as the key modern influence on his own political philosophy.  His notable former students include: Mark Blitz, James Ceaser, Tom Cotton, Andrew Sullivan, Charles R. Kesler, Alan Keyes, William Kristol, Clifford Orwin, Paul Cantor, Delba Winthrop, Mark Lilla, Francis Fukuyama, Sharon Krause, Bruno Maçães, and Shen Tong.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP] Tarana Burke  Tarana Burke (born September 12, 1973) is an American activist from The Bronx, New York, who started the MeToo movement. In 2006, Burke began using MeToo to help other women with similar experiences to stand up for themselves. Over a decade later, in 2017, #MeToo became a viral hashtag when Alyssa Milano and other women began using it to tweet about the Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse cases. The phrase and hashtag quickly developed into a broad-based, and eventually international movement.  "Time" named Burke, among a group of other prominent activists dubbed "the silence breakers", as the "Time" Person of the Year for 2017. Burke presents at public speaking events across the country and is currently Senior Director at Girls for Gender Equity in Brooklyn.
What is Harvey William Burk's occupation? [SEP] Edward Blake  Dominick Edward Blake (October 13, 1833 – March 1, 1912), known as Edward Blake, was the second premier of Ontario, from 1871 to 1872 and leader of the Liberal Party of Canada from 1880 to 1887. He is one of only three federal permanent Liberal leaders never to become Prime Minister of Canada, the others being Stéphane Dion and the latter's immediate successor Michael Ignatieff. He may be said to have served in the national politics of what developed as the affairs of three nationalities: Canadian, British, and Irish. Blake was also the founder, in 1856, of the Canadian law firm now known as Blake, Cassels & Graydon LLP.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]  The son of the impressionist painter Richard Eggers, Carsten Eggers was born in Stade, in Lower Saxony, and grew up in the town of Jork in the Altes Land region, an area of reclaimed marshland on the Elbe downstream from Hamburg. Deciding against an academic career he studied all aspects of painting with his father, an accomplished artist who in 1975 was awarded the Knight's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (Bundesverdienstkreuz am Bande) for his life's work. At the age of only 17, Carsten Eggers designed the coat of arms of the municipality of Jork. In
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]  he had his first exhibition of paintings, in his home town of Jork, together with his father. After 1980 he turned to sculpture, studying under Professor Franz Rotter in Cuxhaven, and from 1983 he studied Sculpture under Karl Heinz Türk at the Freie Kunstakademie (Free Art Academy) in Nürtingen. Defying the usual conventions, Eggers kept himself to himself, shunned the arts "establishment", and was not a member of any artists' associations. Since 1991 Carsten Eggers has lived and worked at a former farm in Nottensdorf in the rural district of Stade. Eggers died aged 64 on 29 September 2021 in hospital in Hamburg.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]  Eggers was born February 21, 1916, in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in economics from Indiana University in 1940 and 1941, respectively. He served in the Navy as a Japanese-language officer during World War II and was discharged as a Lieutenant in 1946. Eggers had begun graduate work at the University of Chicago before the war, and continued it at Yale University after the war ended.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]  William Daniel Eggers (born 1967) is an American writer, researcher, policy analyst, and government and management consultant. Eggers has worked in government reform for more than two decades.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]  Eggers has an M.A. from Oxford University and a B.S. from the United States Naval Academy.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP] Baroque sculpture  Baroque sculpture is the sculpture associated with the Baroque style of the period between the early 17th and mid 18th centuries. In Baroque sculpture, groups of figures assumed new importance, and there was a dynamic movement and energy of human forms—they spiralled around an empty central vortex, or reached outwards into the surrounding space. Baroque sculpture often had multiple ideal viewing angles, and reflected a general continuation of the Renaissance move away from the relief to sculpture created in the round, and designed to be placed in the middle of a large space—elaborate fountains such as Gian Lorenzo Bernini‘s Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi (Rome, 1651), or those in the Gardens of Versailles were a Baroque speciality. The Baroque style was perfectly suited to sculpture, with Bernini the dominating figure of the age in works such as "The Ecstasy of St Theresa" (1647–1652). Much Baroque sculpture added extra-sculptural elements, for example, concealed lighting, or water fountains, or fused sculpture and architecture to create a transformative experience for the viewer. Artists saw themselves as in the classical tradition, but admired Hellenistic and later Roman sculpture, rather than that of the more "Classical" periods as they are seen today.  Baroque sculpture followed Renaissance and Mannerist sculpture and was succeeded by Rococo and Neoclassical Sculpture. Rome was the earliest centre where the style was formed. The style spread to the rest of Europe, and especially France gave a new direction in the late 17th century. Eventually it spread beyond Europe to the colonial possessions of the European powers, especially in Latin America and the Philippines.  The Protestant Reformation had brought an almost total stop to religious sculpture in much of Northern Europe, and though secular sculpture, especially for portrait busts and tomb monuments, continued, the Dutch Golden Age has no significant sculptural component outside goldsmithing. Partly in direct reaction, sculpture was as prominent in Catholicism as in the late Middle Ages. The Catholic Southern Netherlands saw a flourishing of Baroque sculpture starting from the second half of the 17th century with many local workshops producing a wide range of Baroque sculpture including church furniture, funeral monuments and small-scale sculptures executed in ivory and durable woods such as boxwood. Flemish sculptors would play a prominent role in spreading the Baroque idiom abroad including in the Dutch Republic, Italy, England, Sweden and France.  In the 18th century much sculpture continued on Baroque lines—the Trevi Fountain was only completed in 1762. The Rococo style was better suited to smaller works.
What is Jörg A. Eggers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP]  Petru Vlah (born July 13, 1970) is a politician from Moldova. He has been a member of the Parliament of Moldova since 2010.
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP] Irina Vlah (born 1974), Moldovan politician ; Petru Vlah (born 1970), Moldovan politician Vlah is a surname, a reference to Vlachs. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP]  Irina Vlah (born 26 February 1974, in Comrat, Moldavian SSR, Soviet Union) is a Moldovan politician. She served as member of the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova from 2005 to 2009 and from 2014 to 2015. Since 15 April 2015 she has been the Governor (Başkan) of the Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzia (Gagauz Yeri). According to the polls made in 2019 related to the most popular politicians of the Republic of Moldova, Irina Vlah is on the 9th position among the top of politicians in which Moldovans have the highest trust.
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP]  Petre Popeangă (born 19 May 1944, Lelești, Gorj County) is a Romanian politician and Member of the European Parliament. He is a member of the Greater Romania Party. He became a delegate MEP on 1 January 2007 with the accession of Romania to the European Union. Until November 14, 2007 he was a member of the Identity, Tradition, Sovereignty group.
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP]  served as accountant at a worksite in Titu, tutor at a worker cooperative, ticket inspector at Zoo Băneasa, laborer at a chemical plant, archivist and machine operator at another cooperative. From 1964 to 1968, he was documentarian at Bucharest's Nicolae Iorga History Institute, rising to scientific researcher from 1968 to 1970. Strihan's first published work appeared in Flacăra in 1922, while his first book was the 1929 Penumbre. Between 1922 and 1929, he formed part of the Sburătorul literary circle. During the interwar period, his writings appeared in Adevărul literar, Convorbiri Literare, Viața literară, Universul literar and Slove. After 1964, he wrote for Luceafărul, Gazeta literară and România Literară. His late works, delicate and naive, appeared in Poezii (1968), Moara albastră (1978) and Lumini târzii (1984).
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP] Flag of Gagauzia  The flag of Gagauzia (, , ) has served as an official symbol of the Gagauz Territorial Unit since 1995, and is recognized as a regional symbol by Moldova. Popularly known as the "Sky Flag", it is a triband of blue-white-red, with a wider blue stripe, charged with three yellow stars arranged in triangular pattern. The overall symbolism is debated, but the stars may represent the three Gagauz municipalities within Moldova. The tricolor is reminiscent of the Russian flag, which is also popular in Gagauzia; the issue has created friction between Gagauz and Moldovan politicians.  Before their mass migration into Bessarabia and the Budjak, Gagauz people were associated with several polities—including the Despotate of Dobruja—which, according to Gagauz tradition, had a rooster flag. The emergence of Gagauz nationalism dates back to the 1860s, when the Gagauz and the Bessarabian Bulgarians rejected both Tsarist autocracy and Romanian nationalism. A Gagauz quasi-state, the "Comrat Republic", was formed during the Russian Revolution of 1905, but its leaders only used the generic red flag, publicizing their loyalty toward the All-Russian Peasant Union. Separate symbols for the Gagauz and their territory are comparatively new, first emerging as marks of the resistance to Russification in the Soviet Union. Several ethnic and semi-official flags were recorded for Gagauz separatists during the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991, generally featuring the grey wolf ().   The unrecognized Gagauz Republic adopted wolf symbolism in various forms; the device was featured on its official flag, which reportedly existed in only one copy. Despite their initial popularity, grey-wolf flags were tainted by controversy, being read as references to Pan-Turkism and the eponymous far-right group. They fell out of use in 2000–2010, but reemerged as popular in the following decade. In 2017, Governor Irina Vlah proposed the introduction of a flag bearing the wolf's head in red as a "historical flag" with official status. If adopted, this resolution would not replace the "Sky Flag".
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP]
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP] Maia Sandu  Maia Sandu (; born 24 May 1972) is a Moldovan politician who has been the President of Moldova since 24 December 2020. She is the former leader of the Party of Action and Solidarity (PAS) and former Prime Minister of Moldova from 8 June 2019 until 14 November 2019. On 12 November 2019, Sandu's government collapsed after a vote of no-confidence, with 63 (deputies from PSRM and PDM) of the 101 MPs having voted on the motion submitted by the PSRM. Sandu was Minister of Education from 2012 to 2015 and member of the Parliament of Moldova from 2014 to 2015, and again in 2019.  She was selected as the joint candidate of the pro-European PPDA and PAS parties for president of Moldova in the 2016 election. However, she was defeated in the subsequent runoff by the pro-Russian PSRM candidate, Igor Dodon, losing the popular vote by a margin of 48% to 52%. In a rematch between Dodon and Sandu in the 2020 election, she won the subsequent runoff, 58% to 42%, defeating Dodon. She is the first female president of Moldova.
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP] Romanians  The Romanians (, ; dated exonym "Vlachs") are a Romance-speaking ethnic group. Sharing a common Romanian culture and ancestry, and speaking the Romanian language, they live primarily in Romania and Moldova. The 2011 Romanian census found that just under 89% of Romania's citizens identified themselves as ethnic Romanians.  In one interpretation of the 1989 census results in Moldova, the majority of Moldovans were counted as ethnic Romanians. Romanians also form an ethnic minority in several nearby countries of Central and Eastern Europe.  Estimates of the number of Romanian people worldwide vary from 24 to 30 million, in part depending on whether the definition of the term "Romanian" includes natives of both Romania and Moldova, their respective diasporas, and native speakers of both Romanian and other Balkan Romance languages. Other speakers of the latter languages are the Aromanians, the Megleno-Romanians, and the Istro-Romanians, which may be considered Romanian subgroups or separated yet related ethnicities.
What is Petru Vlah's occupation? [SEP] Gagauzia  Gagauzia or Gagauz-Yeri, officially the Autonomous Territorial Unit of Gagauzia (ATUG), is an autonomous territorial unit of Moldova. Its autonomy is ethnically motivated by the predominance in the region of the Gagauz people, who are primarily Orthodox Turkic-speaking people.  At the end of World War I, all of the territory of Gagauzia became part of the Kingdom of Romania, before being carved up into the Soviet Union in June 1940. From 1941 to 1944 it was again part of Romania, after which it was incorporated into the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic. As the Soviet Union began to disintegrate, Gagauzia declared independence in 1990 as the Gagauz Republic, but was integrated into Moldova in 1994.  "Gagauz Yeri" literally means "place of the Gagauz".
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP]  Jean Philippe Abraham (born June 21, 1982) is a former Canadian football linebacker for the Edmonton Eskimos. In his single season with the Eskimos, he appeared in 9 regular season games and made a single tackle.
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP]  Hippolyte Pierre "Pol" Abraham (11 March 1891 in Nantes, France &ndash; 21 January 1966 in Paris) was a French architect. He graduated in 1920 from the atelier of Jean-Louis Pascal at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris, then followed a course in the Ecole du Louvre from 1921 to 1924. He was a member of the Société des Architectes Diplômés par le Gouvernement (SADG) and magazine editor from 1923 to 1924. After the First World War, he participated in reconstruction work in northern France. Then in 1923, he opened his office in Paris, in association with Paul Sinoir, and produced many public and private buildings in the Île-de-France: His mastery of construction techniques and concrete, in particular, is
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP]  Abraham François (born 7 June 1977) is a Canadian retired footballer. He competed in the 1997 Canada Games with Quebec, winning the competition. He was then selected to represent Canada at the Francophonie Games in Madagascar, also winning the competition. His career spanned from 1998 to 2016.
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP]  Pierre Abraham Lorillard was born in Montbéliard (France) in 1742, the son of Jean Lorillard (b. 1707) and Anne Catherine Rossel. He had five brothers, Jean George, George David, Charles Christophe, Jean Abraham, and Leopold Frederick, and a sister, Anne Marguerite. The naturalization recorded in New York on April 21, 1762, of 'Peter Louillard', a stocking weaver and French Protestant, is probably that of Lorillard. This followed the naturalization on October 27, 1760, of John George Lorillard, described as a French Protestant yeoman of New York City.
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] As writer
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] Pierre Abraham Lorillard  Pierre Abraham Lorillard (1742 – 1776) was a French-American tobacconist who founded the business which developed into the Lorillard Tobacco Company, which claimed to be the oldest tobacco firm in the United States and in the world. His name is also sometimes given as Peter Abraham Lorillard, Peter Lorillard and Pierre Lorillard I.
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] Pierre Lorillard II  Pierre Abraham Lorillard II or Peter Abraham Lorillard II (September 7, 1764 – May 23, 1843), also known as Peter Lorillard, Jr., was an American tobacco manufacturer, industrialist, banker, businessman, and real estate tycoon.
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] Pierre Kartner  Petrus Antonius Laurentius Kartner (11 April 1935 – 8 November 2022) was a Dutch musician, singer-songwriter and record producer who performed under the stage name Vader Abraham ("Father Abraham"). He wrote around 1600 songs.<ref name=MT/>
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] Peter Abrahams  Peter Henry Abrahams Deras (3 March 1919 – 18 January 2017), commonly known as Peter Abrahams, was a South African-born novelist, journalist and political commentator who in 1956 settled in Jamaica, where he lived for the rest of his life. His death at the age of 97 is considered to have been murder.<ref>Olivier Stephenson,
What is Pierre Abraham's occupation? [SEP] Pierre-Esprit Radisson  Pierre-Esprit Radisson (1636/1640–1710) was a French fur trader and explorer in New France. He is often linked to his brother-in-law Médard des Groseilliers. The decision of Radisson and Groseilliers to enter the English service led to the formation of the Hudson's Bay Company. His career was particularly notable for its repeated transitions between serving Britain and France.  There is no image of him other than that provided in his writings and those of the people who encountered him in New France, in Paris on the fringes of the court, on remote Hudson Bay, and in late Stuart London. Radisson should be considered in multiple contexts; for his achievement as a narrator of his own life, the range of his explorations, his experiences among the Indigenous peoples, and his social formation, both as a man of the early modern period for whom personal honour was an important value and as a working trader participating in the mercantile projects of the era. Radisson's life and writings have been interpreted from many different perspectives. Many French Canadians until the twentieth century accepted the verdict of his French contemporaries that he was a traitor to France.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP]  Penner is of Canadian ancestry. He has three children, one daughter and two sons.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP]  Elvin Penner is a Belizean politician who served in the House of Representatives from 2008 to 2015 representing the Cayo North East constituency. He is a member of the United Democratic Party. Penner was the first Belizean Mennonite elected to national office. Penner was initially appointed as Minister of Natural Resources and the Environment in 2008. Following a cabinet reshuffling in March 2009, Penner transitioned to the Ministry of Public Utilities, Information and Broadcasting. After being re-elected in 2012, Penner was appointed Minister of State in the Ministry of National Security (with responsibility for immigration and border protection).
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP]  Alden Penner (born 12 January 1983) is a Canadian musician and producer best known for his work with the Unicorns, Clues, and for his solo output.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP]  actor in the Mediacorp stable in Singapore ; Elvin Nimrod (born 1943), politician from the island of Grenada ; Elvin Papik, the 26th head football coach for the Doane College Tigers located in Crete, Nebraska ; Elvin Penner, Belizean politician ; Elvin Ramírez (born 1987), Major League Baseball pitcher for the Washington Nationals ; Elvin Santos (born 1963), Vice President of Honduras 2006–2008 ; Elvin C. Stakman (1885–1979), American plant pathologist ; Elvin Tibideaux, fictional character on The Cosby Show ; Elvin Yunusov (born 1994), Azerbaijani football player Elvin is a given name. Notable people with the name include:
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP]  Jeffrey Ryan Penner (born April 13, 1987) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey defenceman who played two National Hockey League (NHL) games with the Boston Bruins during the 2009–10 season.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP] Private prosecution  A private prosecution is a criminal proceeding initiated by an individual private citizen or private organisation (such as a prosecution association) instead of by a public prosecutor who represents the state. Private prosecutions are allowed in many jurisdictions under common law, but have become less frequent in modern times as most prosecutions are now handled by professional public prosecutors instead of private individuals who retain (or are themselves) barristers.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP] Whiskey Howl  Whiskey Howl was a Toronto-based Canadian blues band, most popular between 1969 and 1972. The band is notable as being one of the early Canadian bands promoting and developing blues music in Canada.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP] John Wooden  John Robert Wooden (October 14, 1910 – June 4, 2010) was an American basketball coach and player. Nicknamed the Wizard of Westwood, he won ten National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) national championships in a 12-year period as head coach for the UCLA Bruins, including a record seven in a row. No other team has won more than four in a row in Division I college men's or women's basketball. Within this period, his teams won an NCAA men's basketball record 88 consecutive games. Wooden won the prestigious Henry Iba Award as national coach of the year a record seven times and won the AP award five times.  As a 5'10" guard, Wooden was the first player to be named basketball All-American three times, and the 1932 Purdue team on which he played as a senior was retroactively recognized as the pre-NCAA tournament national champion by the Helms Athletic Foundation and the Premo-Porretta Power Poll. He played professionally in the National Basketball League (NBL). Wooden was inducted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame as a player (1960) and as a coach (1973), the first person ever enshrined in both categories.  One of the most revered coaches in the history of sports, Wooden was beloved by his former players, among them Lew Alcindor (later Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) and Bill Walton. Wooden was renowned for his short, simple inspirational messages to his players (including his "Pyramid of Success") many of which were directed at how to be a success in life as well as in basketball. Wooden's 29-year coaching career and overwhelming critical acclaim for his leadership have created a legacy not only in sports but also extending to business, personal success, and organizational leadership.<ref name="AP obit"/>
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP] Kareem Abdul-Jabbar  Kareem Abdul-Jabbar ( ; born Ferdinand Lewis Alcindor Jr.; April 16, 1947) is an American former professional basketball player who played 20 seasons in the National Basketball Association (NBA) for the Milwaukee Bucks and the Los Angeles Lakers. During his career as a center, Abdul-Jabbar was a record six-time NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), a record 19-time NBA All-Star, a 15-time All-NBA Team member, and an 11-time NBA All-Defensive Team member. He was a member of six NBA championship teams as a player and two more as an assistant coach, and was twice voted NBA Finals MVP. He was named to three NBA anniversary teams (35th, 50th, and 75th). Widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time,  Abdul-Jabbar was known as Lew Alcindor ( ) when he played at parochial high school Power Memorial in New York City, where he led their team to 71 consecutive wins. He was recruited by Jerry Norman, the assistant coach at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he played for coach John Wooden on three consecutive national championship teams. He was a record three-time MVP of the NCAA Tournament. Drafted with the first overall pick by the one-season-old Bucks franchise in the 1969 NBA draft, Alcindor spent six seasons in Milwaukee. After leading the Bucks to its first NBA championship at age 24 in 1971, he took the Muslim name Kareem Abdul-Jabbar. Using his trademark skyhook shot, he established himself as one of the league's top scorers. In 1975, he was traded to the Lakers, with whom he played the final 14 seasons of his career in which they won five additional NBA championships. Abdul-Jabbar's contributions were a key component in the Showtime era of Lakers basketball. Over his 20-year NBA career, his teams succeeded in making the playoffs 18 times and got past the first round 14 times; his teams reached the NBA Finals on ten occasions.  At the time of his retirement at age 42 in 1989, Abdul-Jabbar was the NBA's all-time leader in points (38,387), games played (1,560), minutes (57,446), field goals made (15,837), field goal attempts (28,307), blocked shots (3,189), defensive rebounds (9,394), career wins (1,074), and personal fouls (4,657). He remains the all-time leader in points scored, field goals made, and career wins. He is ranked third all-time in both rebounds and blocked shots. the greatest player in college basketball history in 2008, and the second best player in NBA history (behind Michael Jordan) in 2016. Abdul-Jabbar has also been an actor, a basketball coach, a best-selling author, and a martial artist, having trained in Jeet Kune Do under Bruce Lee and appeared in his film "Game of Death" (1972). In 2016, President Barack Obama awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
What is Elvin Penner's occupation? [SEP] Elmer Fudd  Elmer J. Fudd is an animated cartoon character in the Warner Bros. "Looney Tunes"/"Merrie Melodies" series and the archenemy of Bugs Bunny. He has one of the more disputed origins in the Warner Bros. cartoon pantheon (second only to Bugs himself). But it was evidenced that the true origins of Elmer was that he was actually created by Fred "Tex" Avery in 1937, as a "Running Gag" character with small, sometimes squinty eyes, with a derby hat and with a green suit.' His aim is to hunt Bugs, but he usually ends up seriously injuring himself and other antagonizing characters. He speaks in an unusual way, replacing his Rs and Ls with Ws, so he often refers to Bugs Bunny as a "scwewy" or "wascawwy (rascally) wabbit". Elmer's signature catchphrase is, "Shhh. Be vewy vewy quiet, I'm hunting wabbits", as well as his trademark laughter.  The best known Elmer Fudd cartoons include Chuck Jones' work "What's Opera, Doc?" (one of the few times Fudd bested Bugs, though he felt bad about it), the Rossini parody "Rabbit of Seville", and the "Hunting Trilogy" of "Rabbit Season/Duck Season" shorts ("Rabbit Fire", "Rabbit Seasoning", and "Duck! Rabbit, Duck!") with Fudd, Bugs Bunny, and Daffy Duck. An earlier prototype of character named Elmer set some of the recognizable Elmer's aspects before the character's more conspicuous features were set.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP]  Rodrigo Arocena Linn (born February 23, 1947 in Montevideo) is an Uruguayan mathematician, and rector of the University of the Republic since July 2006.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP]  Son of Germán Arocena Capurro and Mercedes Linn Davie, he comes from an Uruguayan upper-class family. His only brother Ignacio Arocena Linn disappeared on 20 August 1978 in Argentina, under circumstances surrounding the military regime. He began his academic life in the Faculty of Engineering at the University of the Republic of Uruguay. After a short time he began to teach at the Institute of Mathematics and Statistics, today called "Rafael Laguardia". During the military dictatorship in Uruguay, Arocena was exiled from the country, after spending a period in prison. After a journey to Buenos Aires he obtained his doctorate in Mathematics in 1979 from the Central University of Venezuela, under the direction of Mischa Cotlar in the area of functional analysis. More recently, Arocena changed the direction of his studies, dedicating himself to social sciences, obtaining a second doctorate in development studies, in 1990. He acted as Professor of Science and Development at the Faculty of Science until his election as vice-chancellor of the University of the Republic of Uruguay. In 2007 the LGBT collective "Ovejas Negras" (Black Sheep) recognized him as Person of the Year.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP]  He is the author of more than 30 articles in the area of social science, dedicated to the study of the science in Uruguay and Latin America, and the themes of exile and technology. He has published 16 books (as author, co-author, or editor) regarding similar social themes. In the area of mathematics, between the years 1979 and 1998, he published some 40 articles about functional and harmonic analysis, unary operators and advancements.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP]  Rodrigo Arocena was elected vice-chancellor of the University of the Republic of Uruguay in the third vote (the last possible moment) in the General Assembly of the Senate. After the withdrawal of several candidates, opinions were divided between Rodrigo Arocena and Roberto Markarian, another mathematician who also began teaching in the Rafael Laguardia Institute of Mathematics and Statistics at the same time as Arocena. Arocena counted on the support of the majority of the students from the Federation of University Students of Uruguay in the General Assembly of the Senate to boost his candidacy, while Markarian had backing from the Teacher's Association of the University of the Republic (ADUR).
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP]  Rodrigo Maroni (born 21 July 1981) is a Brazilian politician, as well as a yoga instructor and animal rights activist. He has spent his political career representing Rio Grande do Sul, having served in the state legislature since 2019.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP] Rodrigo Arocena  Rodrigo Arocena Linn (born February 23, 1947 in Montevideo) is an Uruguayan mathematician, and rector of the University of the Republic since July 2006.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP] Argentine university reform of 1918  The Argentine university reform of 1918 was a general modernization of the universities, especially tending towards democratization, brought about by student activism during the presidency of Hipolito Yrigoyen, the first democratic government. The events started in Córdoba and spread to the rest of Argentina, and then through much of Latin America. The reform set up the freedom for universities to define their own curriculum and manage their own budget without interference from the central government. This has had a profound effect on academic life at the universities through the nationalization process that boasts academic freedom and independence throughout the university life.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP] Italian Uruguayans  Italian Uruguayans (Spanish: "ítalo-uruguayos"; Italian: "italo-uruguaiani") are Uruguayan-born citizens who are fully or partially of Italian descent or Italian-born people in Uruguay. It is estimated that more than one third of Uruguayans are of Italian descent.  Along with its neighboring country, Argentina, Italian immigration to Uruguay is one of the largest, if not the largest, ethnic groups towards Uruguay's modern culture and society, along with Spanish Uruguayans, exhibiting significant connections to Italian culture in terms of language, customs and traditions. Outside of Italy, Uruguay has one of the highest percentages of Italians in the world.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP] Montevideo  Montevideo () is the capital and largest city of Uruguay. According to the 2011 census, the city proper has a population of 1,319,108 (about one-third of the country's total population) in an area of . Montevideo is situated on the southern coast of the country, on the northeastern bank of the Río de la Plata.  The city was established in 1724 by a Spanish soldier, Bruno Mauricio de Zabala, as a strategic move amidst the Spanish-Portuguese dispute over the platine region. It was also under brief British rule in 1807, but eventually the city was retaken by Spanish criollos who defeated the British invasions of the River Plate. Montevideo is the seat of the administrative headquarters of Mercosur and ALADI, Latin America's leading trade blocs, a position that entailed comparisons to the role of Brussels in Europe.  The 2019 Mercer's report on quality of life, rated Montevideo first in Latin America, a rank the city has consistently held since 2005. , Montevideo was the 19th largest city economy in the continent and 9th highest income earner among major cities. In 2022, it has a projected GDP of $53.9 billion, with a per capita of $30,148.  In 2018, it was classified as a beta global city ranking eighth in Latin America and 84th in the world. Montevideo hosted every match during the first FIFA World Cup, in 1930. Described as a "vibrant, eclectic place with a rich cultural life", and "a thriving tech center and entrepreneurial culture",  It is the hub of commerce and higher education in Uruguay as well as its chief port. The city is also the financial hub of Uruguay and the cultural anchor of a metropolitan area with a population of around 2 million.
What is Rodrigo Arocena's occupation? [SEP] List of French Argentines  French Argentines are Argentines of full or partial French descent, or French-born people who reside in Argentina. Most of French immigrants settled in Argentina from the 1870s until WW1, though consistent immigration started in the 1820s and continued until the late 1940s. Half of these immigrants came from Southwestern France, especially from the Basque Country and Béarn (former Basses-Pyrénées accounted for more than 20% of immigrants), as well as Bigorre and Rouergue, but also from Savoy and the Paris region. As early as in the 1840s, Argentina also received immigrants with French background from neighboring countries, notably Uruguay. In 2006, it was estimated that around 6 million Argentines had some degree of French ancestry (up to 17% of the total population).
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]  Fidel Antuña Batista (born 27 April 1972) is a Mexican politician from the National Action Party. From 2008 to 2009 he served as Deputy of the LX Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Yucatán.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]  Víctor Ivo Acuña Velázquez (1966–2007) was a Cuban Communist and Lieutenant Colonel in the Revolutionary Armed Forces. In 1983 Acuña Velázquez enrolled in the General Carlos Rolof Military Academy, from which he graduated as a communications engineer. In his military career, he occupied various posts linked to the specialty of communications, and he rose successively in rank until attaining that of lieutenant colonel. Acuña Velázquez was murdered in 2007 when he tried to stop two hijackers of an airplane at José Martí International Airport. He was then awarded the Antonio Maceo Medal of Valor posthumously by Raúl Castro.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]  Piñeiro participated in student protests or demonstrations against the 10 March 1952 coup d'état, which brought dictator Fulgencio Batista to power. In September 1953, his relatively prosperous family (he was the son of a Bacardí executive) sent him to study business management at Columbia University in New York, to take him away from the political turmoil of the time. While studying in the US, he began to oppose the social, racial, and political discrimination that he saw in the United States at that time and he felt the need to return to Cuba. He returned to his hometown in 1955 and became a founder of the July 26 Movement. Soon after his comeback, Piñeiro was arrested by Batista's security agencies because of his subversive or underground political activities. After his release, he continued his clandestine activities in Havana. Upon discovering that he was under police surveillance, he decided that it was better to leave for the Eastern Sierra Maestra and join the guerrilla columns headed by Fidel Castro.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]  arbitrator on Caso Cerrado ; Manny Puig, Cuban-born wildlife entertainer ; Enrique Ros (1924–2013), Cuban-born businessman and activist opposed to Cuban president Fidel Castro ; Andrea Louise Simon, community leader ; Alfred-Maurice de Zayas, Cuban-born lawyer; writer; historian; expert in the field of human rights and international law; retired high-ranking United Nations official; peace activist; since 2012 the United Nations Independent Expert on the Promotion of a Democratic and Equitable International Order (also known as Special Rapporteur), appointed by the United Nations Human Rights Council ; Jose Battle, Cuban-born refugee whom was a police officer during the Batista regime. He was the founder and head of an organized crime syndicate known as the corporation, also referred to as the "Cuban Mafia". Battle controlled bolita rackets within the Cuban-American community.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]  Harry "Pombo" Villegas (10 May 1940 – 29 December 2019) was a Cuban Communist guerrilla. He was born in Yara, Cuba, and was a descendant of African slaves. He fought alongside Che Guevara in battles from the Sierra Maestra to the Bolivian insurgency. From 1977 to 1979, and again from 1981 to 1988, Villegas was part of the leadership of Cuba's volunteer military mission in Angola, fighting alongside Angolan and Namibian forces against aggression by South Africa's apartheid regime. Villegas was a Central Committee member of the Communist Party of Cuba from 1997 to 2011, a deputy of Cuba's National Assembly, and executive vice president of the Association of Combatants of the Cuban Revolution. Villegas was also a published writer. He died, aged 79, in Havana, Cuba.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP] Fabio Grobart  Fabio Grobart (born Abraham Grobart, August 30, 1905 – 22 October 1994; also known as Antonio Blanco and Abraham Simjovitch) was a Marxist-Leninist revolutionary and politician who played an important role in the 1959 Cuban Revolution that overthrew Fulgencio Batista and led to Fidel Castro's rise to power.
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP]
What is Fidel Antuña Batista's occupation? [SEP] Víctor Ivo Acuña Velázquez Víctor Ivo Acuña Velázquez (1966–2007) was a Cuban Communist and Lieutenant Colonel in the Revolutionary Armed Forces. In 1983 Acuña Velázquez enrolled in the General Carlos Rolof Military Academy, from which he graduated as a communications engineer. In his military career, he occupied various posts linked to the specialty of communications, and he rose successively in rank until attaining that of lieutenant colonel. Acuña Velázquez was murdered in 2007 when he tried to stop two hijackers of an airplane at José Martí International Airport. He was then awarded the "Antonio Maceo Medal of Valor" posthumously by
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP]  Thomas Gifford (June 1, 1854 &ndash; February 19, 1935) was a politician in British Columbia, Canada. Born in 1854 in Lockerbie, Scotland, the son of William Gifford and Margaret Stewart, he was educated there and apprenticed as a jeweller. He opened his own store in Lockerbie around 1876. In 1877, he married Annie Stoddart. Thomas and his wife, along with sons William (b. 3 Jul 1878) and Thomas Stuart (b. 3 Jun 1880), emigrated to St. Paul, Minnesota in 1881. Here, they had a daughter Margaret (b. 6 Apr 1882) and another son, James Stoddart (b. 26 Sep 1888), before moving again to New Westminster, British Columbia, Canada, where Gifford
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Sir Thomas Gifford, 1st Baronet (died 1662)
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP]  Christopher Gifford (born March 20, 1966 in Vancouver, British Columbia) is a former field hockey striker from Canada, who currently is working in management for a neutraceutical company. Married in August 1998 to his wife Sandra, he now has three children, Carson, Vanessa and Myles.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP]  Gifford was born in Ashburton, Devon, to Edward Gifford and Elizabeth Cain. His father, a glazier and house painter, had run away as a youth with vagabond Bampfylde Moore Carew, and he remained a carouser throughout his life. He died when William was thirteen; his mother died less than a year later. He was left in the care of a godfather who treated him with little consistency. Gifford was sent in turn to work as a plough boy, a ship's boy, student, and cobbler's apprentice. Of these, Gifford cared only for the life of a student, and he continued to write verses as he learned the cobbler's trade. Gifford's fortunes changed when his
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP]  Richard Gifford (1725–1807), was an English poet and Church of England clergyman.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Gifford  Thomas Eugene Gifford (May 16, 1937 – October 31, 2000) was a best-selling American author of thriller novels. He was a graduate of Harvard University.  He gained international fame with the crime novel "The Glendower Legacy" and later with the Vatican thriller "The Assassini". The books posited George Washington as a British spy and the Roman Catholic Church as a criminal organization. "The Glendower Legacy" was made into a movie in 1981 under the name "Dirty Tricks".  Gifford also published under the names Dana Clarins and Thomas Maxwell.  He died of cholangiocarcinoma in his home in Dubuque, Iowa, on Halloween 2000.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Elean Thomas  Elean Thomas (18 September 1947 – 27 May 2004) was a Jamaican poet, novelist, journalist and activist. She was active in the struggle for women's rights in the Caribbean and the movement for Jamaican national independence, as well as working in Latin America, Eastern and Western Europe and Africa.<ref name=DofA /> She was married (1988–97) to human rights barrister Anthony Gifford.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Gifford Pinchot  Gifford Pinchot (August 11, 1865October 4, 1946) was an American forester and politician. He served as the fourth chief of the U.S. Division of Forestry, as the first head of the United States Forest Service, and as the 28th governor of Pennsylvania. He was a member of the Republican Party for most of his life, though he joined the Progressive Party for a brief period.  Born into the wealthy Pinchot family, Gifford Pinchot embarked on a career in forestry after graduating from Yale University in 1889. President William McKinley appointed Pinchot as the head of the Division of Forestry in 1898, and Pinchot became the first chief of the U.S. Forest Service after it was established in 1905. Pinchot enjoyed a close relationship with President Theodore Roosevelt, who shared Pinchot's views regarding the importance of conservation. After William Howard Taft succeeded Roosevelt as president, Pinchot was at the center of the Pinchot–Ballinger controversy, a dispute with Secretary of the Interior Richard A. Ballinger that led to Pinchot's dismissal. The controversy contributed to the split of the Republican Party and the formation of the Progressive Party prior to the 1912 presidential election. Pinchot supported Roosevelt's Progressive candidacy, but Roosevelt was defeated by Democrat Woodrow Wilson.  Pinchot returned to public office in 1920, becoming the head of the Pennsylvania's forestry division under Governor William Cameron Sproul. He succeeded Sproul by winning the 1922 Pennsylvania gubernatorial election. He won a second term as governor through a victory in the 1930 Pennsylvania gubernatorial election, and supported many of the New Deal policies of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. After the repeal of the Eighteenth Amendment, Pinchot led the establishment of the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board, calling it "the best liquor control system in America". He retired from public life after his defeat in the 1938 Pennsylvania gubernatorial election, but remained active in the conservation movement until his death in 1946.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Hardy  Thomas Hardy (2 June 1840 – 11 January 1928) was an English novelist and poet. A Victorian realist in the tradition of George Eliot, he was influenced both in his novels and in his poetry by Romanticism, including the poetry of William Wordsworth. He was highly critical of much in Victorian society, especially on the declining status of rural people in Britain, such as those from his native South West England.  While Hardy wrote poetry throughout his life and regarded himself primarily as a poet, his first collection was not published until 1898. Initially, he gained fame as the author of novels such as "Far from the Madding Crowd" (1874), "The Mayor of Casterbridge" (1886), "Tess of the d'Urbervilles" (1891), and "Jude the Obscure" (1895). During his lifetime, Hardy's poetry was acclaimed by younger poets (particularly the Georgians) who viewed him as a mentor. After his death his poems were lauded by Ezra Pound, W. H. Auden and Philip Larkin.  Many of his novels concern tragic characters struggling against their passions and social circumstances, and they are often set in the semi-fictional region of Wessex; initially based on the medieval Anglo-Saxon kingdom, Hardy's Wessex eventually came to include the counties of Dorset, Wiltshire, Somerset, Devon, Hampshire and much of Berkshire, in southwest and south central England. Two of his novels, "Tess of the d'Urbervilles" and "Far from the Madding Crowd", were listed in the top 50 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.
What is Thomas Gifford's occupation? [SEP] Anthony Gifford, 6th Baron Gifford  Anthony Maurice Gifford, 6th Baron Gifford, KC (born 1 May 1940), is a British hereditary peer and senior barrister. He inherited the title of Baron Gifford on the death of his father, the 5th Baron, in April 1961.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP]  Pietro Marcenaro (born 2 June 1946 ) is an Italian politician and trade unionist of the centre-left Democratic Party. Since 29 April 2008 he has been President, Commission on Human Rights.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP]  Having worked at FIAT in the years following 1975, he joined the Italian Communist Party in 1989 and was secretary of the Piedmont Division of the Italian General Confederation of Labour as well as the Federazione Impiegati Operai Metallurgici , another Italian trade union. He subsequently became regional secretary of the Democrats of the Left Party.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP]  In 2006 he won a seat in the Italian Chamber of Deputies (the Italian lower house) as a candidate for the l'Ulivo Party, which joined other centre-left parties to form the Democratic Party. He was then elected for the XVI. legislation of the Italian Senate (the Italian upper house)starting on 29 April 2008, his party now forming part of the opposition. During this legislation, he is also part, besides the extraordinary commission for the safeguard and promotion of human rights which he presides, of the senate commission for foreign affairs. Likewise, he is member of the ''parliamentary delegation of Italy to the Council of Europe as well as vice-president of the parliamentary delegation to the Assembly of the Western European Union.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP]  Marcantonio Michiel (1484–1552) was a Venetian noble from a family prominent in the service of the State who was interested in matters of art. His notes on the contemporary art collections of Venice, Padua, Milan and other northern Italian centres (Notizie d'opere del disegno), written sporadically between 1521 and 1543 and preserved in the Biblioteca Marciana, provide a major primary source for art historians and a less thoroughly inspected source for historians of décor. Michiel never worked up his notes into a publishable itinerary of art collections; "his publication record is poor and mainly posthumous," Jennifer Fletcher has noted, "and letters from friends hint at a certain lack of perseverance." His diary was never intended to be read by the public, and his history of Venice was an endless project. Pietro Aretino wrote him a flattering letter praising his interests in painting, architecture
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP]  Giuseppe Marcinò was born in Caltagirone on 24 October 1859 to Pietro Marcinò and Laura Barone. He studied in a school that the Jesuits ran and finished his studies in 1607 at the time he entered the novitiate of the Order of Friars Minor. He change his name to "Innocenzo from Caltagirone" after his formal profession as a member of the order. He continued his studies in both philosophical and theological studies in the monasteries of places such as Malta. It was there in 1613 that he was ordained to the priesthood. He studied Hebrew in Rome after this until 1615 and returned to his home to teach Hebrew at a high school. He taught theological studies from 1619 until a decade later at Capuchin
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP] Pietro Marcenaro  Pietro Marcenaro (born 2 June 1946) is an Italian politician and trade unionist of the centre-left Democratic Party. Since 29 April 2008 he has been President, Commission on Human Rights.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP] Vittorio Foa  Vittorio Foa (18 September 1910 – 20 October 2008) was an Italian politician, trade unionist, journalist and writer.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP] Francesco Repetto  Monsignor Francesco Repetto (Genoa, 1914–1984) was an Italian priest and librarian. He is honored by Jews as a Righteous Among the Nations for his leading role in the clandestine DELASEM organization, which contributed to the saving of thousands of Jews during the Holocaust in Italy during the German occupation.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP] 1580s  The 1580s decade ran from January 1, 1580, to December 31, 1589.
What is Pietro Marcenaro's occupation? [SEP] 1590s  The 1590s decade ran from January 1, 1590, to December 31, 1599.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]  William Australia Graham (22 November 1841 – 9 May 1916) was a New Zealand surveyor, mediator, farmer, politician and mayor. He was born in Auckland, New Zealand, on 22 November 1841, the third son of George Graham. He went to Clewer House School, Windsor, and Hele's School, Exeter and returned home in 1854. William was a Government surveyor, and produced a plan for Hamilton East in 1864, just after the invasion of the Waikato. In 1865 his father was instructed to contact Wiremu Tamihana. William acted as interpreter for General Carey, leading to Wiremu's submission to the Queen and acquiescence to the invasion of the Waikato. King
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]  William Grahame (1 January 1841 – 29 May 1906) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from 1889 until 1894 and a member of the Protectionist Party. Grahame was born in Edinburgh, Scotland and after a minimal education worked as a labourer. He migrated to Australia in 1858 and laboured on road work until he found employment as a tenant farmer and contractor. He eventually kept a jewellery shop in Newcastle and served as an alderman on Wickham Municipal Council and as a member of the local water and sewage board. At the 1889 election, he was the third candidate on the Protectionist list and won the last position in the multi-member seat of Newcastle. However, Grahame was forced to resign from parliament in October 1889 when he became insolvent and he was defeated by James Curley at the subsequent by-election. He regained his seat in April 1891 at a by-election caused by the death of James Fletcher. Grahame was defeated at the 1894 election. He did not hold ministerial or party office.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]  William Grahame (1808 – 26 November 1890) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from 1865 until 1869 and from 1872 until 1874. He was also a life member of the New South Wales Legislative Council from 1875 until 1889. Grahame was born in Stirlingshire, Scotland and migrated to Australia in 1828. He initially worked as a sheep hauler but rapidly acquired a large amount of land in the Monaro area. He failed in an attempt to win the seat of Monaro at the 1864–65 election but was elected to parliament unopposed at a subsequent by-election when it was found that the winner of the seat, the Premier, James Martin, had been elected to two seats. Grahame was defeated at the 1869–70 election but regained his seat at the subsequent election in 1872. He retired from the Legislative Assembly at the 1874–75 election and became a nominated life-time appointee in the Legislative Council. His seat on the council was declared vacant on 27 February 1889 because he had been absent from the council for 2 continuous sessions. He did not hold ministerial or party office.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]  William Graham JP FRICS (born 18 November 1949 in Newport, Monmouthshire) is a Welsh Conservative politician, former Shadow Leader of the House in the National Assembly for Wales, Opposition Chief Whip and Shadow Minister for Social Services.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]  Sir James Graham (29 July 1856 – 8 March 1913) was a Scottish-born physician and politician, active in Australia. He was Mayor of Sydney in 1901. Graham was born in Edinburgh, son of Thomas Graham, marble polisher, and his wife Jane ( née Square). Graham graduated M.A. at University of Edinburgh in 1879 and M.B. and C.M. in 1882. Graham migrated to Sydney in 1884 but then returned to Europe in August 1888 and studied at Berlin, Vienna and Paris. In 1888, he obtained the M.D. degree of Edinburgh Medical School with gold medal for his thesis on "Hydatid Disease in its Clinical Aspects". Returning to Sydney he was appointed superintendent of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital which, largely by
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP] William Australia Graham  William Australia Graham (22 November 1841 – 9 May 1916) was a New Zealand surveyor, mediator, farmer, politician and mayor. He was born in Auckland, New Zealand, on 22 November 1841, the third son of George Graham. He went to Clewer House School, Windsor, and Hele's School, Exeter and returned home in 1854.  William was a Government surveyor, and produced a plan for Hamilton East in 1864, just after the invasion of the Waikato. In 1865 his father was instructed to contact Wiremu Tamihana. William acted as interpreter for General Carey, leading to Wiremu's submission to the Queen and acquiescence to the invasion of the Waikato. King Mahuta presented him with a patu parāoa, in recognition of his mediation. In 1887 he advocated for fair treatment of Māori land.  From the mid-1860s to 1882, he and his brother, Samuel, developed over at Tamahere, on former Ngāti Haua land. In 1882 he was secretary of Waikato Farmers' Cooperative and, from 1884, chairman of the North New Zealand Farmers' Co-operative Association, formed to establish a sugar beet industry. He influenced Julius Vogel to introduce the Beet-root Sugar Act 1884.  On 5 March 1872 William married Alice, eldest daughter of Walter Coombes, of the shipping company Coombes and Daldy. That day ships in Auckland harbour were decorated with bunting. Their 3 sons and 6 daughters included a son born on 11 February 1897, Alice Australia Buckleton, Hilda Herberta Blanche Hume, Mrs J. H. Hume, Mrs C. L. & Mrs A. C. Macdiarmid. and Cedric Kenny Onslow Graham, who was born on 21 December 1889 and died on 16 September 1916 at the battle of the Somme, having ignored his father's advice to come home. Alice shared her husband's interest in the Anglican church and charitable work.<ref name=":4"/>  He represented Waikato on Auckland Provincial Council from 24 November 1873 to 1876 and was elected Mayor of Hamilton on 27 November 1884, by 84 votes to 56. As mayor he gained Hamilton of endowments from the government. when he was insulted by a request for a public meeting to review a decision.<ref name=":4"/>  He was also appointed borough representative on Auckland Hospital and Charitable Aid Board in 1885 and became chairman of the Waikato Board, when it was formed in 1886. He opposed attempts to establish cottage hospitals around Waikato, still used by Waikato Hospital.<ref name=":4"/> He retired from the hospital board in December 1888.<ref name=":4"/>  In 1882 run by Mrs Watts, built on what had been Ngāti Wairere's Kirikiriroa pā. a magistrate (1893) and continued his church work.  He was reported as having a lengthy illness in 1904. He was badly injured in a buggy accident
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP]
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP] Graham Henry  Sir Graham William Henry (born 8 June 1946) is a New Zealand rugby union coach, and former head coach of the country's national team, the All Blacks. Nicknamed 'Ted', he led New Zealand to win the 2011 World Cup.  Henry played rugby union for Canterbury and cricket for Canterbury and Otago in the Plunket Shield. Before becoming a full-time coach, Henry worked as a school teacher and headmaster.  He coached successful Auckland and Auckland Blues teams in the 1990s, winning National Provincial Championship titles in 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996 with Auckland, and the first Super 12 title with the Blues in 1996. He coached Wales from 1998 to 2002, with some success, including an 11-match winning streak. He was head coach of the British & Irish Lions in their 2001 tour of Australia, in which they lost the test series 2–1.  He was appointed head coach of New Zealand in 2004, and had several successful seasons, including a series victory over the British & Irish Lions in 2005. Henry was heavily criticised following the All Blacks' quarterfinal exit at the 2007 Rugby World Cup and was reappointed amid some controversy. He subsequently led the All Blacks to win the 2011 Rugby World Cup final. He stepped down as All Blacks coach in 2011 after 140 matches in a career that also included five Tri Nations titles.  In 2012, Henry joined Argentina as an advisor, and acted as an assistant coach to the Argentina national team. In 2013, he re-committed to Argentina for the 2013 Rugby Championship.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP] Will Graham (evangelist)  William Franklin Graham IV (born January 30, 1975) is an American Christian evangelist. He is the executive director of the Billy Graham Training Center at The Cove and associate evangelist of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association. Graham is the third generation of Grahams to preach under the banner of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association (BGEA). He is a grandson of Billy Graham and the oldest son of Franklin Graham.
What is William Australia Graham's occupation? [SEP] Bill Graham (Australian politician)  Bruce William Graham, OBE (22 August 1919 – 18 February 1995) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the Liberal Party and served in the House of Representatives for over 20 years, representing the New South Wales seats of St George (1949–1954, 1955–1958) and North Sydney (1966–1980).
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]  Richard E. Myers (born October 29, 1934) is an American politician in the state of Iowa. Myers was born in Iowa City, Iowa. He attended Iowa State University, the University of Iowa, and Kirkwood Community College and is a businessman. A Democrat, he served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1993 to 2005 (49th district from 1995 to 2003 and 30th district from 1993 to 1995 and in 2003).
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]  Richard Myers (or Richard L. Myers) is an American experimental filmmaker based in northeast Ohio. He holds a Bachelor of Fine Arts degree (1959) and a Master of Arts degree (1961), both from Kent State University in Kent, Ohio. Myers taught at Kent State University in the art department beginning in 1964 and is particularly known for his 1970 film Confrontation at Kent State, which he filmed in Kent during the week following the Kent State shootings of May 4, 1970; it is an important document of the period. Myers began to produce independent films in the early 1960s. Many of his films are highly personal, with non-narrative or loose narrative structures derived from his dreams. Although some films (as, for example, his 1993 film Tarp) feature no actors at all, instead focusing entirely on inanimate objects, most films feature nonprofessional actors and are produced on very small budgets. Myers is the recipient of two (due to a name spelling error) Guggenheim Fellowships as well as grants from the American Film Institute and the National Endowment for the Arts. The Academy Film Archive preserved several of Richard Myers' films, including Akran, The Path, and Allison Beth Krause.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]  Richard Ernest Myers II (born 1967) is the Chief United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina. He is a former law professor at the University of North Carolina School of Law.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]  Myers was born in Kingston, Jamaica, and moved to Wilmington, North Carolina, as a child. His voter registration states that he belongs to "two or more races." Myers earned his Bachelor of Arts, summa cum laude, and his Master of Arts from the University of North Carolina at Wilmington. He worked as a reporter for the Star-News from 1991 to 1995, where he covered the murder of James R. Jordan Sr., the father of Michael Jordan. In 1998, he received his Juris Doctor, magna cum laude, from the University of North Carolina School of Law, where he served as an Articles Editor on the North Carolina Law Review. He graduated Order of the Coif.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]  fuelled his alienation anorexia and self-harm," and the New Humanist describes Ben Myers as "a sensitive, thoughtful writer...His greatest skill is the atmospheric evocation of landscape and place." According to Marie Claire magazine, “Myers' recreation of Edward's life is sensitively handled – an exploration of a troubled, articulate man who was shy and withdrawn.” Time Out writes that “Richard is not a provocation, nor does it claim to solve the Richey mystery. It is a sympathetic and sad imagining of the boy who became a reluctant pop idol before that notion became oxymoronic.” bookmunch.com has described Richard as "a novel for our celebrity-obsessed age, a thorough
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP] Dick Myers  Richard George Myers (born 6 July 1950) is a former New Zealand rugby union player. A loose forward, Myers played for Leamington RFC in Cambridge and is the only All Black to have played for the club. He represented Manawatu and Waikato at a provincial level, and was a member of the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, in 1977 and 1978. He played five matches for the All Blacks including one international. On his test debut for New Zealand he played at Number 8 against the Wallabies where his opposite number Greg Cornelsen scored 4 tries in a 30–16 victory for Australia.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP] Richard E. Myers  Richard E. Myers (born October 29, 1934) is an American politician in the state of Iowa.  Myers was born in Iowa City, Iowa. He attended Iowa State University, the University of Iowa, and Kirkwood Community College and is a businessman. A Democrat, he served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1994 to 2005 (49th district from 1994 to 2003 and 30th district in 2003). Myers was first elected to the state house in a February 1994 special election called after Robert Dvorsky resigned to contest a state senate seat. During the Democratic Party primaries later that year, Myers defeated David Johnson and won his first full term as a state representative.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP] Rick Scott  Richard Lynn Scott ( Myers, born December 1, 1952) is an American politician serving as the junior United States senator from Florida since 2019. A member of the Republican Party, he was the 45th governor of Florida from 2011 to 2019.  Scott is a graduate of the University of Missouri–Kansas City and the Dedman School of Law at Southern Methodist University. In 1987, after serving in the United States Navy and becoming a law firm partner, he co-founded Columbia Hospital Corporation. Columbia later merged with another corporation to form Columbia/HCA, which eventually became the nation's largest private for-profit health care company. Scott was pressured to resign as chief executive of Columbia/HCA in 1997. During his tenure as chief executive, the company defrauded Medicare, Medicaid, and other federal programs. The Department of Justice won 14 felony convictions against the company, which was fined $1.7 billion in what was at the time the largest healthcare fraud settlement in U.S. history. Following his departure from Columbia/HCA, Scott became a venture capitalist and pursued other business interests. In 2009, he founded Conservatives for Patients' Rights.  Scott ran for governor of Florida in 2010. He defeated Bill McCollum in a vigorously contested Republican primary election, and then narrowly defeated Democratic nominee Alex Sink in the general election. Scott was reelected in 2014, defeating former governor Charlie Crist. He was barred by term limits from running for reelection in 2018, and instead ran for the United States Senate.  Scott won the 2018 US Senate election, defeating Democratic incumbent Bill Nelson. The initial election results were so close that they triggered a mandatory recount. The recount showed that Scott had won by 10,033 votes; Nelson then conceded the race. Scott took office following the expiration of his term as governor of Florida on January 8, 2019.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP] Chocolate Myers  Danny "Chocolate" Myers (born October 17, 1948) is an American stock car racing personality. A long-time staffer for Richard Childress Racing, he was the fueler on six of the team's NASCAR championships (Dale Earnhardt Sr., 1986–87, 1990–91, 1993–94) and is the current curator of the team's museum. He is a radio host on Sirius Satellite Radio.
What is Richard Myers's occupation? [SEP]
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]  Rutger Castricum (born in The Hague on 29 May 1979) is a Dutch journalist and presenter, who was known as reporter for the PowNews television programme by the Dutch broadcaster PowNed and previously for the blog Geenstijl.
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP] Frits Agterberg (born 1936), Dutch-born Canadian geologist ; Frederik Frits Korthals Altes (born 1931), Dutch politician and former Minister of Justice ; Frits Bernard (1920–2006), Dutch clinical psychologist and sexologist ; Frits Beukers (born 1953), Dutch mathematician ; Frits van Bindsbergen (born 1960), Dutch road cyclist ; Frits Bolkestein (born 1933), Dutch politician ; Frits Bülow (1872–1955), Danish politician and Justice Minister ; Frits Castricum (1947–2011), Dutch journalist and Labour Party politician ; Frits Clausen (1893–1947), Danish collaborator with Nazi Germany ; Frits Dantuma (born 1992), Dutch footballer ; Frits van Dongen (born 1946), Dutch architect ; Frits Dragstra (1927–2015), Dutch politician ; Frits Eijken (1893–1978), Dutch rower ; Frits
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]  Sietse Rindert Fritsma (born 31 March 1972 in Franeker) is a Dutch politician and former civil servant. As a member of the Party for Freedom (Partij voor de Vrijheid) he has been a member of the House of Representatives since 1 September 2020. He previously served in the House between 30 November 2006 and 31 October 2019. He focuses on matters of social affairs, employment, political asylum and immigration. From March 2010 till January 2011 he was also a member and PVV fraction leader of the municipal council of The Hague. He previously worked for the Dutch Immigration and Naturalisation Service (IND). Fritsma studied human geography at the University of Groningen. He obtained a master's degree in spatial science, specializing in regional geography of developing countries. Around 1990 he lived for a year in an Israeli kibbutz.
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]  Olympics ; Frederik Muller (1817–1881), Dutch bibliographer, book seller, and print collector ; Frits Niessen (1936–2020), Dutch politician ; Frits van Oostrom (born 1953), Dutch historic philologist ; Frits van Paasschen (born 1961), Dutch and American chief executive ; Frits Pannekoek (born 1947), Canadian historian and university dean ; Frits Peutz (1896–1974), Dutch architect ; Frits Philips (1905–2005), Dutch chairman of Philips electronics and Righteous Among the Nations ; Frits Pirard (born 1954), Dutch retired professional road bicycle racer ; Frits Poelman (born ca. 1930), Dutch-born New Zealand footballer ; Frits Potgieter (born 1974), South African retired discus thrower and shot putter ; Frits Purperhart (1944–2016), Surinamese football player and
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP] Arjan de Zeeuw (born 1970 in Castricum) a retired Dutch footballer with 553 club caps ; Eddy Putter (born 1982 in Akersloot) a Dutch football player with over 200 club caps ; Kees Luijckx (born 1986 in Beverwijk) a Dutch footballer with over 270 club caps
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP] Ruud Vreeman  Rudolf Lourens "Ruud" Vreeman (born 31 December 1947) is a Dutch politician of the Labour Party (PvdA) and trade union leader.
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP]
What is Frits Castricum's occupation? [SEP] Abraham Louis Schneiders  Abraham Louis “Bram” Schneiders (1 October 1925 — 2 July 2020) was a Dutch writer and diplomat. He was ambassador of the Netherlands to Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Central African Republic, Gabon, Chad (1979-1982), Zimbabwe (1982-1986); New Zealand, Fiji, Tonga; Samoa (1986-1990) and Tuvalu (1987-1990).  As writer he had pseudonyms Drievoeter and A. van Anders.
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]  Per Risvik (born 4 September 1937 in Herøy, Møre og Romsdal) is a Norwegian politician (FrP). He was elected to the Stortinget from Sør-Trøndelag in 1989.
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP] 1989 – 1993 part of the Transport and Communication committee
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]  Rikard Olsvik (6 February 1930 in Aure – 21 August 2017) was a Norwegian politician for the Labour Party.
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]  Rikard was the son of Hans Olsvik (1897-1974) and Anna Rosvoll (1897-1977).
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]  He died on 21 August 2017 at the age of 87.
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP] Food choice  Research into food choice investigates how people select the food they eat. An interdisciplinary topic, food choice comprises psychological and sociological aspects (including food politics and phenomena such as vegetarianism or religious dietary laws), economic issues (for instance, how food prices or marketing campaigns influence choice) and sensory aspects (such as the study of the organoleptic qualities of food).  Factors that guide food choice include taste preference, sensory attributes, cost, availability, convenience, cognitive restraint, and cultural familiarity. In addition, environmental cues and increased portion sizes play a role in the choice and amount of foods consumed.  Food choice is the subject of research in nutrition, food science, food psychology, anthropology, sociology, and other branches of the natural and social sciences. It is of practical interest to the food industry and especially its marketing endeavors. Social scientists have developed different conceptual frameworks of food choice behavior. Theoretical models of behavior incorporate both individual and environmental factors affecting the formation or modification of behaviors. Social cognitive theory examines the interaction of environmental, personal, and behavioral factors.
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP]
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP] Deaths in March 2021  The following is a list of notable deaths in March 2021.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What is Per Risvik's occupation? [SEP] permanent under-secretary of State in the Ministry of the Environment, being granted a leave of absence from 1999 to 2001. He was also a member of the board of the European Environment Agency. Harald Rensvik Harald Rensvik (born 4 March 1946) is a Norwegian civil servant. He was born in Arendal, and grew up in Ålesund and Valdres. He graduated as a siv.ing from the Norwegian Institute of Technology. He worked as a head of department in the Norwegian Pollution Control Authority from 1982 to 1986. In 1987 he took over as director of the Pollution Control Authority. He served
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP]  Alan Bjerga (born 1973) is an American journalist, author of the book Endless Appetites: How the Commodities Casino Creates Hunger and Unrest. He also covers global food policy for Bloomberg News and is a journalism instructor at Georgetown University, where in 2016 he received a department award for dedication to student learning. In 2010 he served as president of the National Press Club and was president of the North American Agricultural Journalists in 2010-2011. He has been recognized for his work with awards from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, the New York Press Club, the Kansas Press Association, the North American Agricultural Journalists, and the Overseas Press Club. He has commented on food and agriculture for Bloomberg
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP]  under 40, and in 2013 received Concordia College's annual "Sent Forth" award given to an outstanding young alumnus. Bjerga began his career with the St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minn.) and also reported for the Sioux Falls (S.D.) Argus Leader and The Wichita Eagle (Kan.). Alan Bjerga was a contestant on the game show, "Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?" where he won $50,000. He was a second-place finisher on Jeopardy!' At his National Press Club inaugural on January 30, 2010, he played guitar and sang lead vocals with "Honky Tonk Confidential", a retro/alt country band with songs written by former CBS Face the Nation anchor, Bob Schieffer. He has also competed for the standup comedy title of "DC's Funniest Journalist."
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP]  National Public Radio, the BBC and PBS Newshour, among other programs. Bjerga won the NAAJ's top writing award in 2005 while working for the Knight-Ridder Washington Bureau, where as a Midwest correspondent also covered foreign policy issues including defense contracting and intelligence related to the Iraq war. Bjerga, who grew up on a farm near the town of Motley, Minnesota, went to Concordia College (Minnesota) where he earned a bachelor's degree in history and English literature and edited the student newspaper, The Concordian. He earned a master's degree in mass communication from the University of Minnesota, where he was the managing editor of The Minnesota Daily. In 2012 he was an inaugural winner of the university's award for outstanding journalism
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP]  Ola Bjerkaas (born 1952) is a Norwegian politician. He served as the acting County Governor of Nordland county from 2008 until 2009 while Hill-Marta Solberg was finishing up her term in the Parliament of Norway.
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP] Alan Bjerga  Alan Bjerga (born 1973) is an American journalist, author of the book "Endless Appetites: How the Commodities Casino Creates Hunger and Unrest." He also covers global food policy for Bloomberg News and is a journalism instructor at Georgetown University, where in 2016 he received a department award for dedication to student learning. In 2010 he served as president of the National Press Club and was president of the North American Agricultural Journalists in 2010-2011. He has been recognized for his work with awards from the Society of American Business Editors and Writers, the New York Press Club, the Kansas Press Association, the North American Agricultural Journalists, and the Overseas Press Club. He has commented on food and agriculture for Bloomberg Television, National Public Radio, the BBC and PBS Newshour, among other programs. Bjerga won the NAAJ's top writing award in 2005 while working for the Knight-Ridder Washington Bureau, where as a Midwest correspondent also covered foreign policy issues including defense contracting and intelligence related to the Iraq war.  Bjerga, who grew up on a farm near the town of Motley, Minnesota, went to Concordia College (Minnesota) where he earned a bachelor's degree in history and English literature and edited the student newspaper, "The Concordian". He earned a master's degree in mass communication from the University of Minnesota, where he was the managing editor of The Minnesota Daily. In 2012 he was an inaugural winner of the university's award for outstanding journalism alumni under 40, and in 2013 received Concordia College's annual "Sent Forth" award given to an outstanding young alumnus.  Bjerga began his career with the St. Paul Pioneer Press (Minn.) and also reported for the Sioux Falls (S.D.) Argus Leader and The Wichita Eagle (Kan.).  Alan Bjerga was a contestant on the game show, "Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?" where he won $50,000. He was a second-place finisher on "Jeopardy!"' At his National Press Club inaugural on January 30, 2010, he played guitar and sang lead vocals with "Honky Tonk Confidential", a retro/alt country band with songs written by former CBS Face the Nation anchor, Bob Schieffer. He has also competed for the standup comedy title of "DC's Funniest Journalist."
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP] Tim Davis (activist)  Timothy A. Davis (born September 24, 1955) is an American cannabis rights activist, cyclist, gardener, politician, writer, retired warehouse laborer, and disc jockey. A founding member of the Grassroots Party in 1986, Davis was their candidate for Minnesota Lieutenant Governor in 1994, and United States Senator in 1996 and 2012.<ref name="ShafferPioneerPress"/>  Davis, who helped establish a Saint Louis, Missouri, chapter of the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws in the 1970s, headed the Minnesota branch of the organization during the 1980s and 1990s.<ref name="Reader"/><ref name="StarTribuneArchive"/>  Davis, a resident of Minneapolis, is state chairperson of the Minnesota Legal Marijuana Now Party.
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP] John Burkel  John Burkel (born April 6, 1967) is an American farmer and politician serving as a Republican member of the Minnesota House of Representatives for District 1A since 2021. The district includes all of Kittson, Roseau, and Marshall as well as portions of Pennington counties in northwestern Minnesota.
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP] New Riverside Cafe  The New Riverside Cafe was a coffeehouse and vegetarian restaurant located near the University of Minnesota in the West-Bank neighborhood of Minneapolis, Minnesota, from 1970 to 1997. It became a center for political and social movements around revolutionary politics.<ref name="00523.xml" />
What is Alan Bjerga's occupation? [SEP] Kouhyar Goudarzi  Kouhyar Goudarzi () is an Iranian human rights activist, journalist and blogger who was imprisoned several times by the government of Iran. He previously served as an editor of Radio Zamane. He is a member of Committee of Human Rights Reporters (CHRR), serving as the head from 2005-2009.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]  Ruth Rose (born 1944) is a Quebec educator and feminist. The daughter of Arnold Marshall Rose and Caroline Baer, both American sociologists, she was educated at the University of California at Berkeley and the University of Chicago. Rose taught economics at the Université du Québec à Montréal from 1970, but is now retired. Her areas of interest include labour economics, income security, post-Keynesian economics, the Quebec economy and the relationship between women and the economy. Her research contributed to the development of daycare services, benefits for parents, policies in support of families and improved working conditions in Quebec. Rose was awarded the Prix Idola Saint-Jean in 1999. She was named a Knight in the National Order of Quebec in 2011. She married Michel Lizée.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]  Rose Beaudet (born Eliza Lang; 1862&ndash;1947) was an American actress and opera singer of the late 19th and early 20th century who regularly appeared in musical theatre. She was born as Eliza Lang, the daughter of Councilman Lewis H. Lang (1836-1912) of Stockton near San Francisco, and his wife Mary Ann Lang (1848 -1878). She married S. Arlant Edwards on 15 January 1891, but had divorced him by 1902. She appeared with the C. D. Willard Company in 1903. A mezzo-soprano, Beaudet's appearances on Broadway included Eva in The Beggar Student at the Casino Theatre (1883 - 1884), Amorita at the Casino Theatre (1885), Captain Delauney in Erminie at the Casino Theatre (1886), a role played
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]  Raponda was born in 1964 in Libreville. Raponda is a member of the Mpongwe people. Raponda received a degree in economics and public finance from the Gabonese Institute of Economy and Finance.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]  Rose Beuret, born Marie Rose Beuret on 9 June, 1844 in Vecqueville (Haute-Marne) and died on 14 February, 1917 in Meudon, was a French seamstress and laundress, known to have been one of the muses and, for 53 years, the companion of Auguste Rodin, whom she married just weeks before her own death, in 1917.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]  Rose Christiane Ossouka Raponda (born 1964) is a Gabonese politician who is currently serving as Prime Minister of Gabon since 16 July 2020, making her the first female prime minister of the country. She previously served as the Mayor of Libreville and later as the country's Defense Minister from February 2019 to July 2020.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP] Rose Beaudet  Rose Beaudet (born Eliza Lang; 1862–1947) was an American actress and opera singer of the late 19th and early 20th century who regularly appeared in musical theatre.  She was born as Eliza Lang, the daughter of Councilman Lewis H. Lang (1836-1912) of Stockton near San Francisco, and his wife Mary Ann Lang (1848 -1878). She married S. Arlant Edwards on 15 January 1891, but had divorced him by 1902. She appeared with the C. D. Willard Company in 1903.  A mezzo-soprano, Beaudet's appearances on Broadway included Eva in "The Beggar Student" at the Casino Theatre (1883 - 1884), "Amorita" at the Casino Theatre (1885), Captain Delauney in "Erminie" at the Casino Theatre (1886), a role played in the original London production by Kate Everleigh, " The Kitchen Belle" (1889), Mrs St Mirim in "Miss Innocence Abroad" at the Bijou Theatre (1894), Catherine in "Lost, Strayed or Stolen" at the Fifth Avenue Theatre (1896), "All on Account of Eliza" at the Garrick Theatre and Wallack's Theatre (1900 - 1901), "The Cardinal" at the Garden Theatre (1902), Mrs Jefferson Briscoe in "The County Chairman" at Wallack's Theatre (1903 - 1904), Marcie Brook in "Miss Jack" at the Herald Square Theatre (1911), and Mrs Kennion in "The Younger Generation" and in "Half an Hour" at the Lyceum Theatre (1913).  She died in 1947 and is buried in Stockton Rural Cemetery with her father, mother and sister.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP] Verna Felton  Verna Arline Felton (July 20, 1890December 14, 1966) was an American actress, best known for providing many voices in numerous Disney animated films.  She also provided the voice for Fred Flintstone's mother-in-law, Pearl Slaghoople in Hanna-Barbera's "The Flintstones" (1962–1963) and had roles in live-action films. However, she was most active in radio programs, where her characters were known for their husky voices and no-nonsense attitudes. Two of her most famous roles were as Dennis Day's mother, Mrs. Day on "The Jack Benny Program" (1939–1962) and as Hilda Crocker on the CBS sitcom "December Bride" (1952–1959).  Felton's television appearances include those in "The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show", "I Love Lucy", "Where's Raymond?", "Pete and Gladys" and "Dennis the Menace".
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP] 2018 Quebec general election  The 2018 Quebec general election was held on October 1, 2018, to elect members to the National Assembly of Quebec. The election saw a landslide victory for the Coalition Avenir Québec (CAQ) led by François Legault, which won 74 of 125 seats, giving the party a majority and unseating the Quebec Liberal Party. The Liberals became the Official Opposition with 31 seats.  This election was the first won by the CAQ, which had previously been the third party in the legislature. It was also the first since 1966 that had been won by a party other than the Liberals or Parti Québécois.
What is Rose Beaudet's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]  Gabriel-Marie was born in Paris, France on 8 January 1852. He studied at the Conservatoire de Paris and held a prominent position in the local musical world. He died unexpectedly on 29 August 1928 in Puigcerdà, Girona, Spain. He was the father of the composer Jean Gabriel Marie.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]  Jean Gabriel Marie (1907–1970) was a French composer.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]  Jean Gabriel Prosper Marie (8 January 1852 – 29 August 1928) was a French romantic composer and conductor.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]  His father, Jean Gabriel-Marie, was also a composer.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]  He directed of the Institut Gabriel-Marie in Marseille for many years until his death at age 63.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP] Jean Gabriel Marie (1907–1970)  Jean Gabriel Marie (1907–1970) was a French composer.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP] Jean Monnet  Jean Omer Marie Gabriel Monnet (; 9 November 1888 – 16 March 1979) was a French civil servant, entrepreneur, diplomat, financier, administrator, and political visionary. An influential supporter of European unity, he is considered one of the founding fathers of the European Union.  Jean Monnet has been called "The Father of Europe" by those who see his innovative and pioneering efforts in the 1950s as the key to establishing the European Coal and Steel Community, the predecessor of today's European Union. Although Monnet was never elected to public office, he worked behind the scenes of American and European governments as a well-connected "pragmatic internationalist".  For three decades, Jean Monnet and Charles de Gaulle had a multifaceted relationship, at some times cooperative and at other times distrustful, from a first encounter in London during the Battle of France in mid-June 1940 until De Gaulle's death in November 1970. Monnet and De Gaulle have been referred to together as "probably the two most outstanding Frenchmen of the 20th century" ().<ref name=Casa2003/>  Jean Monnet was the first-ever individual to be designated as an Honorary Citizen of Europe in 1976. On the hundredth anniversary of his birth in 1988, his native country of France honoured Monnet's memory by transferring his mortal remains to the Panthéon in Paris.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP] Jean-Gabriel Pageau  Jean-Gabriel "J-G" Pageau (; born November 11, 1992) is a Canadian professional ice hockey player for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL).   He was selected by the Ottawa Senators in the fourth round, 96th overall, of the 2011 NHL Entry Draft with whom he spent the first part of his NHL career prior to his trade to the Islanders in 2020.
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jean Gabriel Marie's occupation? [SEP] Jean Gabriel Maurice Rocques  Jean Gabriel Maurice Rocques, comte de Montgaillard (November 16, 1761 – February 8, 1841) was a French political agent of the Revolution and First Empire era.
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP]  George Birnie Esslemont (1860 – 2 October 1917) was a Scottish Liberal politician. He was elected as Member of Parliament for Aberdeen South in 1907, and held the seat until he resigned in 1917. He married Clementine Macdonald who became President of the Aberdeen Women's Liberal Association. Their daughter was Mary Esslemont who became a leading doctor and was born in Aberdeen in 1891.
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP] Anna Esslemont, Welsh folk musician, member of Uiscedwr ; George Birnie Esslemont (1860-1917), British politician ; Ian Cameron Esslemont (born 1962), Canadian writer ; John Esslemont (1874-1925), Scottish Bahá'í ; Mary Esslemont (1891-1984), Scottish doctor ; Peter Esslemont (1834-1894), Scottish politician ; Sonny Esslemont (born 1993), Scottish rugby player Esslemont is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP]  Esslemont began his medical career in Aberdeen but moved to Australia in 1902. There he took a position at Ararat Hospital and became the District Surgeon and Health Officer for Alexandar County. He returned to Aberdeenshire in 1903 and, later that same year, left for South Africa in the hopes that the climate would be beneficial to his health. He worked in South Africa for five years, serving as Medical Officer of a government hospital and then as the District Surgeon at Kroonstad. He returned to Britain in 1908 and took a position as the Resident Medical Officer of the Home Sanatorium in Bournemouth, England. This was one of many facilities established for the care and
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP]  of tuberculosis patients, as the disease was quite common at the time. In addition to his role as a medical provider, John organized events for his patients in order to raise their morale, and spent long hours comforting those at the very end of their lives. Esslemont was also involved in the conceptualization of a comprehensive national health service. He helped establish the State Medical Service Association, producing recommendations which became the foundation of the British National Health Service. The combination of increasing health issues and his focus on the work of the Baháʼí Faith precluded the continuation of his medical career, and in the spring of 1923, Esslemont left Bournemouth and returned to Aberdeen..
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP]  Ian Cameron Esslemont was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. He has lived and worked in Southeast Asia, including four years spent in Thailand and Japan. He is currently working on a new trilogy set in the Malaz world. He lives in Alaska with his wife, novelist Gerri Brightwell, and their three sons.
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP] List of stewards of the Manor of Northstead  The office of Crown Steward and Bailiff of the Manor of Northstead functions as a procedural device to allow a member of Parliament (MP) to resign from the House of Commons of the United Kingdom. As members of the House of Commons are forbidden from formally resigning, a legal fiction is used to circumvent this prohibition: appointment to an "office of profit under The Crown" disqualifies an individual from sitting as an MP. As such, several such positions are maintained to allow MPs to resign. Currently, the offices of Steward of the Manor of Northstead and Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds are used, and are specifically designated for this purpose under the House of Commons Disqualification Act 1975; several other offices have also been used historically.<ref name="hcio" /> The appointment is traditionally made by the chancellor of the Exchequer. The position was reworked in 1861 by William Ewart Gladstone, who was worried about the honour conferred by appointment to people such as Edwin James, who had fled to the United States over £10,000 in debt. As such, the letter by the chancellor was rewritten to omit any references to honour.  The office was first used in this way on 20 March 1844 to allow Sir George Henry Rose, MP for , to resign his seat. Appointees to the offices of Steward of the Manor of Northstead and Steward of the Chiltern Hundreds are alternated so that two MPs can resign at once (as happened on 23 January 2017 when Tristram Hunt and Jamie Reed resigned). However, every new appointment revokes the previous one, so there is no difficulty in situations in which more than two resign, such as the 1985 walkout of Ulster Unionist MPs when several separate appointments were made on a single day.  The incumbent steward of the Manor of Northstead is Kate Green, formerly the Labour MP for Stretford and Urmston.<ref name="Parish"/>
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP]
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP] 1955 Birthday Honours  The Queen's Birthday Honours 1955 were appointments in many of the Commonwealth realms of Queen Elizabeth II to various orders and honours to reward and highlight good works by citizens of those countries. The appointments were made to celebrate the official birthday of The Queen.  They were announced on 3 June 1955, for the United Kingdom and Colonies, Australia, New Zealand, Ceylon, Pakistan, and for various members of Commonwealth forces in recognition of services in Korea during 1954–1955.  The recipients of honours are displayed here as they were styled before their new honour, and arranged by honour, with classes (Knight, Knight Grand Cross, "etc.") and then divisions (Military, Civil, "etc.") as appropriate.
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP] George Edwin Bissell George Edwin Bissell (February 16, 1839 – August 30, 1920) was an American sculptor. Bissell was born New Preston, Connecticut, the son of a quarryman and marble-cutter. During the American Civil War he served as a private in the 23rd Connecticut Volunteers in the Department of the Gulf (1862–1863), and on being mustered out became acting assistant paymaster in the South Atlantic Squadron. At the close of the war he joined his father's marble business in Poughkeepsie, New York. He studied the art of sculpture abroad in 1875–1876, and lived much in Paris during the years 1883–1896,
What is George Birnie Esslemont's occupation? [SEP] (1859-1927), a successful merchant, and Margaret Esslemont (née Davidson). He came from an eminent family and was educated at Ferryhill School, Robert Gordon's College, and the University of Aberdeen. Esslemont is related to 19th Century Liberal Member of Parliament Peter Esslemont - John's great-grandfather is Peter's grandfather. He graduated in medicine in 1898 with honorable distinction. Unfortunately, Esslemont had contracted tuberculosis during his college days and this caused him to give up his promising career in medical research. He traveled internationally and married Jean Fraser to whom he was drawn by their mutual interest in music. On return to Britain
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP]  Shorty Hamilton (September 9, 1879 &ndash; March 7, 1925) was an American actor and silent film comedian who appeared in more than 80 films, mostly westerns, from 1909 to 1925. His birth name was William John Schroeder, and he was also known as "Jack Hamilton." He had served in the United States Cavalry for several years and worked as a cowboy in Montana and Texas. He was best known for the "Adventures of Shorty" series of two-reel silent films that were released from 1912 to 1917.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP]  Before becoming an actor, Hamilton served six years in the United States Cavalry and worked as a cowboy for five years in Montana and Texas. As an actor, he appeared in many of the western films produced by Thomas H. Ince, including The Great Smash. He was described as "an extremely likeable little chap who combines the wonderful riding, lassoing, cow-punching stunts of the true westerner with the polished, quick-wittedness of the New York society man."
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP]  Hamilton was best known for the "Adventures of Shorty" series of two-reel comedies in which he starred from 1914 to 1917. There were more than 35 two-reel films featuring Hamilton as the "Shorty" character, a cowboy with a trained horse&mdash;his "remarkably intelligent horse, Beauty." W. H. Clifford continued the series at his short-lived film company. Hamilton was not the only big talent associated with the "Shorty" pictures; the films were produced by Thomas H. Ince, many were written by the noted screenwriter C. Gardner Sullivan, and the directors included Francis Ford. Aside from the trained horse, Hamilton's co-stars in the "Shorty" pictures included Enid Markey and Charles Ray.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP]  The last of the "Adventures of Shorty" films was released in 1917. However, Hamilton continued to appear in western genre films. In March 1925, Hamilton died at age 45 when his automobile crashed into a steam shovel standing in a street in Hollywood.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP]  Hamilton's popularity drew attention to his personal life as well as his screen performances. In the fall of 1914, less than six months after the release of Shorty Escapes Matrimony, Hamilton married Ethel Spurgin. Hamilton met Spurgin, who was a fan of Hamilton's work, at an appearance at a movie theater in Venice, Los Angeles, California. The two married less than two months after they met.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP] Shorty Hamilton  Shorty Hamilton (September 9, 1879 – March 7, 1925) was an American actor and silent film comedian who appeared in more than 80 films, mostly westerns, from 1909 to 1925. His birth name was William John Schroeder, and he was also known as "Jack Hamilton." He had served in the United States Cavalry for several years and worked as a cowboy in Montana and Texas. He was best known for the "Adventures of Shorty" series of two-reel silent films that were released from 1912 to 1917.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP] Martin Short  Martin Hayter Short (born March 26, 1950) is a Canadian-American actor, comedian, and writer.<ref name=moviestimes/> He has received various awards including two Primetime Emmy Awards, and a Tony Award. In 2019 Short became an Officer of the Order of Canada.  He is known for his work on the television programs "SCTV" and "Saturday Night Live". Short created the characters Jiminy Glick and Ed Grimley. He also acted in the sitcom "Mulaney" (2014–2015), the variety series "Maya & Marty" (2016), and "The Morning Show" (2019). He has also had an active career on stage, starring in Broadway productions including Neil Simon's musicals "The Goodbye Girl" (1993) and "Little Me" (1998–1999). The latter earned him a Tony Award for Best Actor in a Musical and the former a nomination in the same category.  He has starred in comedy films such as "Three Amigos" (1986), "Innerspace" (1987), "Three Fugitives" (1989), "Captain Ron" (1992), "Clifford" (1994), "Mars Attacks!" (1996), "Jungle 2 Jungle" (1997), and "" (2006). Short also provided voice-work for films like "The Pebble and the Penguin" (1995), "The Prince of Egypt" (1998), "Treasure Planet" (2002), "" (2003), "The Spiderwick Chronicles" (2008), "", "Frankenweenie" (both 2012), and "The Wind Rises" (2013).  In 2015, Short started touring nationally with fellow comedian Steve Martin. In 2018, they released their Netflix special "An Evening You Will Forget for the Rest of Your Life" for which they received three Primetime Emmy Award nominations. Since 2021, he has co-starred in the Hulu comedy series "Only Murders in the Building" alongside Martin and Selena Gomez. For his performance he has earned nominations for the Primetime Emmy Award, the Golden Globe Award, the Screen Actors Guild Award, and the Critics Choice Television Award.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP] Hamilton Camp  Hamilton Camp (Born Robin S. Camp, 30 October 1934 – 2 October 2005) was a London-born singer, songwriter and actor, He is known for his work as a folk singer during the 1960s, and eventually branched out into acting in films and television.
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP] Steven Weber  Steven Robert Weber (born March 4, 1961) is an American actor and comedian. He is best known for his role as Brian Hackett on the television series "Wings" which aired from April 1990 to May 1997 on NBC, as Sam Blue in "Once and Again", and Jack Torrance in the TV miniseries adaptation of Stephen King's "The Shining". He had a recurring role on "iZombie" as Vaughn du Clark. He played Mayor Douglas Hamilton on "" in a recurring role, and as Sergeant First Class Dennis Worcester in "Hamburger Hill" (1987).
What is Shorty Hamilton's occupation? [SEP] Alex Sawyer  Alexander James Sawyer (born 13 February 1993) is an English actor, singer, songwriter and director. He is best known for his roles as Alfie Lewis in "House of Anubis" and Topher in "The End of the F***ing World". In 2018, he began portraying David Oumou in "Get Shorty".
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]  Nándor Balaskó (August 30, 1918 – June 28, 1996) was a sculptor from Romania. Balaskó graduated from Silvania National College in 1937. He studied at the Bucharest National University of Arts (1937–40) and the Hungarian University of Fine Arts (1940–43). Then he worked with Ion Andreescu Institute of Fine and Decorative Art in Cluj Napoca. In 1958 he took part in the International Auschwitz-contest. In 1970, Balaskó emigrated to Sintra, Portugal.
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]  Nándor Litter (born 18 September 1953) is a Hungarian operating engineer and politician (MSZP), who served as Mayor of Nagykanizsa from 2002 to 2006. Formerly he had interests in the oil industry and worked for the MOL Group.
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]  Nándor Steven Tánczos (, Tánczos Nándor; born 29 May 1966) is a New Zealand social ecologist, researcher, educator, activist and political commentator. He is currently a councillor in the Whakatāne District. He is also co-director of He Puna Manawa social and political change agency. Tánczos was a member of the New Zealand Parliament from 1999 to 2008, and represented the Green Party as a list MP.
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP] Adherence (medicine)  In medicine, patient compliance (also adherence, capacitance) describes the degree to which a patient correctly follows medical advice. Most commonly, it refers to medication or drug compliance, but it can also apply to other situations such as medical device use, self care, self-directed exercises, or therapy sessions. Both patient and health-care provider affect compliance, and a positive physician-patient relationship is the most important factor in improving compliance. Access to care plays a role in patient adherence, whereby greater wait times to access care contributing to greater absenteeism. The cost of prescription medication also plays a major role.<ref name=Harris/>  Compliance can be confused with concordance, which is the process by which a patient and clinician make decisions together about treatment.  Worldwide, non-compliance is a major obstacle to the effective delivery of health care. 2003 estimates from the World Health Organization indicated that only about 50% of patients with chronic diseases living in developed countries follow treatment recommendations with particularly low rates of adherence to therapies for asthma, diabetes, and hypertension. Efforts to improve compliance have been aimed at simplifying medication packaging, providing effective medication reminders, improving patient education, and limiting the number of medications prescribed simultaneously. Studies show a great variation in terms of characteristics and effects of interventions to improve medicine adherence. It is still unclear how adherence can consistently be improved in order to promote clinically important effects.<ref name=":2" />
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP] Final Fight Championship  Final Fight Championship (FFC) is an international fighting sports promotion company founded in 2003 by the FFC owner and CEO Orsat Zovko. The company has its headquarters in Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, as well as a European office in Zagreb, Croatia.  FFC started as a kickboxing promotion, in 2013 FFC introduced MMA fights in its events as well as boxing matches in 2016.
What is Nandor Balazs's occupation? [SEP]
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]  Maurice Georges Eugène Le Boucher (25 May 1882 – 9 September 1964), was a French organist, composer, and pedagogue. Le Boucher was born in Isigny-sur-Mer. In 1904, he entered the Conservatoire de Paris, where he was a student of Gabriel Fauré. In 1907, Le Boucher won the prestigious Grand Prix de Rome. Later, he became professor at the École Niedermeyer and organist at St. Germain-l'Auxerrois in Paris. He wrote an Organ Symphony in E major, which was published in 1917 by Éditions Leduc, Paris. He wrote a drama on Oscar Wilde la Duchesse de Padoue which was published by Salabert in 1931. In 1920, he was appointed as director of the Montpellier Conservatory, a post he held for 22 years. His students included André David. Le Boucher died in 1964 in Paris.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]  Born in Causapscal, Quebec, Canada, he was raised in poverty in the Hochelaga-Maisonneuve borough of inner-city Montreal, where his family moved when he was two years old. Boucher had seven siblings with his father working as a construction worker while his mother stayed at home to raise their eight children. Boucher's father was an alcoholic who frequently beat his wife and children, and his mother was described as the main source of love during his childhood. In the 1960s–1970s, the construction industry in Quebec was dominated by the Mafia-linked union boss André "Dédé" Desjardins, known as le roi de la construction
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]  He was born on June 8, 1933 in Sayabec, Bas-Saint-Laurent. He became a social worker in Riviere-du-Loup.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]  king of construction"), who ran the Conseil des métiers de la construction union quite brutally. The world that Boucher grew up was a world where violence was commonplace and where corruption was accepted as normal. Boucher's school reports describe him as an indifferent student and he dropped out of school in grade 9 to work odd jobs. In April 1973, the 19-year-old Boucher committed his first known crime, when he stole $200 from a dépanneur. In July 1974, Boucher got a certificate allowing him to work in the construction industry, but he only lasted a week before being fired due to
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]  Narcisse Henri Édouard Faucher (April 18, 1844 – April 1, 1897) was a Canadian author, journalist, army officer, and politician who published books under the name Faucher de Saint-Maurice.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP] Maurice Boucher  Maurice Boucher (21 June 1953 – 10 July 2022) was a Canadian gangster, convicted murderer, reputed drug trafficker, and outlaw biker—once president of the Hells Angels' Quebec Nomads chapter. Boucher led Montreal's Hells Angels against the rival Rock Machine biker gang during the Quebec Biker War () of 1994 through 2002 in Quebec, Canada. In 2002, Boucher was convicted of ordering the murders of two Quebec prison officers in an effort to destabilize the Quebec Justice system.   He was sent to serve three life sentences at Canada's only supermax prison, in Sainte-Anne-des-Plaines. While imprisoned there, Boucher survived several assassination attempts motivated by his infamy, and was placed in a special unit of the prison to isolate him. Authorities transferred him in June 2022 to the nearby Archambault Institution under conditions of secrecy so he could receive palliative care following the metastasis of his throat cancer. He died 10 July 2022.   Boucher had two children, Alexandra Mongeau and Francis Boucher, who have also been involved in organized crime.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP] Maurice Quentin de La Tour  Maurice Quentin de La Tour (5 September 1704 – 17 February 1788) was a French Rococo portraitist who worked primarily with pastels. Among his most famous subjects were Voltaire, Rousseau, Louis XV and Madame de Pompadour.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP] Henri Nibelle  Henri Jules Joseph Nibelle (6 November 1883 – 18 November 1967) was a French organist, choral conductor and composer.
What is Maurice Le Boucher's occupation? [SEP]
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP]  T. P. Poonatchi is an Indian politician and incumbent member of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly from the Manachanallur constituency. He represents the Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam party.
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP]  P.T Punnoose was born on 20 November 1911 at Thiruvalla in Travancore. His father was I. Thomas. He was educated at Changanacherry and Trivandrum.
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP]  Podimannil Thomas Chandapilla was the only son of a Christian preacher Chiramannil Chadaplilla Thomas and his wife Sosamma Thomas. His parents were members of the Mar Thoma Church, working in tribal areas with no regular income, trusting to God to supply their needs. Despite the family's poverty, Chandapilla was educated in Mar Thoma Boarding school and Gurukulam High School, finishing his schooling in 1942.
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP]  Podimannil Thomas Chandapilla (18 March 1926 – 4 December 2010) was the Vicar General of St. Thomas Evangelical Church of India. He ministered to the university students in India and the Church at large through new mission initiatives, including the founding of Jubilee Memorial Bible college at Chennai, India.
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP]  Thomas hails from a middle-class family from Alappuzha district. A brilliant student right from his school days, Thomas is a post-graduate in Physics and later took his Masters in Economics. Thomas joined the Indian Administrative Service as one of the toppers in the Civil Services Examination in the year 1973. His elder brother, Johny Joseph, is also an IAS officer. As an IAS officer, Thomas has held important assignments in Kerala as the Chief Electoral Officer of the state, and as Secretary in Finance, Industry, Agriculture, Law and Justice and Human Resource Development Departments. As the chief electoral officer, Thomas was instrumental in introducing electronic voting
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP] P. Uthayakumar Uthayakumar s/o Ponnusamy (Tamil: உதயகுமார் பொன்னுசாமி) (born 7 November 1961) is a Malaysian lawyer of Tamil origin. He is the older brother of P. Waytha Moorthy, HINDRAF (the Hindu Rights Action Force) lawyer who headed a team of lawyers to file a class action suit against the United Kingdom for "abandoning minority Indians to the mercy of majoritarian Malay rule while granting independence on August 31, 1957". Although Uthayakumar is only a legal advisor of HINDRAF, a coalition of several non-governmental organisations, he is regarded as the de facto leader of HINDRAF. Uthayakumar was born on 7 November
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP] from a middle-class family from Alappuzha district. A brilliant student right from his school days, Thomas is a post-graduate in Physics and later took his Masters in Economics. Thomas joined the Indian Administrative Service as one of the toppers in the Civil Services Examination in the year 1973. His elder brother, Johny Joseph, is also an IAS officer. As an IAS officer, Thomas has held important assignments in Kerala as the Chief Electoral Officer of the state, and as Secretary in Finance, Industry, Agriculture, Law and Justice and Human Resource Development Departments. As the chief electoral officer, Thomas was instrumental
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP] assisted with relief, rescue and rehabilitation efforts. Today, the Urur Olcott Kuppam Vizha is now Chennai Kalai Theruvizha, a new avatar that will begin exploring new locations around the city in collaboration with local communities. T. M. Krishna Thodur Madabusi Krishna (born 22 January 1976) is a Carnatic music vocalist, writer and author, and socio-political activist. As a vocalist, he has courted controversy by making a large number of innovations in both the style and substance of his concerts. As an activist, he has championed a number of causes connected to the environment, the caste system, communalism, religious reform, reform
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP] 1988. An eloquent preacher, he was described in 1997 with the words, "He lives like Mother Teresa but thinks like John Calvin." www.chandapilla.blogspot.in Blog: A Tribute to Very Rev. P. T. Chandapilla P. T. Chandapilla Podimannil Thomas Chandapilla (18 March 1926 – 4 December 2010) was the Vicar General of St. Thomas Evangelical Church of India. He ministered to the university students in India and the Church at large through new mission initiatives, including the founding of Jubilee Memorial Bible college at Chennai, India. Podimannil Thomas Chandapilla was the only son of a Christian preacher Chiramannil Chadaplilla Thomas and his
What is T. P. Poonatchi's occupation? [SEP] C. M. Poonacha Cheppudira Muthana Poonacha usually referred to as C. M. Poonacha was Chief Minister of Coorg, Minister in Mysore State, Member of Parliament (Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha), Union Railway Minister of India and Governor of Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. C. M. Poonacha was a descendant of the Coorg Dewans. During the Freedom Movement he was sentenced to imprisonment twice during the Salt Satyagraha in 1932 and 1933. He was again imprisoned in 1940–41. and in 1942–44. He became a member of All-India Congress Committee in 1938. Also, in 1938 he was elected to Coorg District Board, became
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]  René Bégin (July 2, 1912 &ndash; November 18, 1981) was a Canadian politician and wholesaler. He was elected to the House of Commons of Canada in the 1957 election as a Member of the Liberal Party for the riding of Quebec West. He lost the 1953 election as an Independent Liberal candidate and lost the elections of 1958 and 1962 as a Member of the Liberal Party. He was born in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada.
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]  René Revol (born November 22, 1947 in La Mure, Isère) is a French politician and a member of the Left Party (PG). He is mayor of Grabels, a working-class suburb of Montpellier (Hérault) since 2008. A former member of the Socialist Party's left-wing, he joined Jean-Luc Mélenchon and Marc Dolez's Left Party in 2008. In 2010, he was selected to be the Left Front's candidate in Languedoc-Roussillon for the 2010 regional elections. His list also received the support of the New Anticapitalist Party (NPA), despite negotiations between the NPA and Left Front failing nationally.
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]   Paul Bégin (born May 15, 1943 in Dolbeau-Mistassini, Quebec) is a former Quebec politician and Cabinet Minister. Member of the Parti Québecois, he served as the province's Justice Minister from 1994 to 1997 and from 2001 to 2002. Begin is a graduate from the Université Laval obtaining a law degree. He was admitted to the Barreau du Québec in 1969 and practiced law for 25 years mostly at the law firm Pinsonneault Pothier Begin Delisle. He was first elected in the Louis-Hébert riding in the 1994 elections when the Parti Québécois re-claimed power after 9 years of Liberal governance under
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]  Begin was born at Metz on 24 April 1802 to François-Nicolas Bégin, a prominent physician, and Marie Victorine Ledoux. Begin received his medical training at the University of Strasbourg. During the Siege of Paris (1870–71), he treated the wounded, which earned him the Legion of Honor. In 1874, he was appointed assistant librarian at the Bibliothèque nationale de France a position that allowed him to continue his historical research. In 1881, Émile Bégin was appointed chief librarian at the Bibliothèque nationale de France. Émile Bégin died on 31 May 1888, after visiting his hometown annexed by the German Empire. He is buried in the cemetery of Montrouge in Paris.
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]  René Röspel (born 9 July 1964) is a German biologist and politician of the Social Democratic Party (SPD) who has been serving as a member of the Bundestag from the state of North Rhine-Westphalia since 1998.
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP] J.-Wilfrid Dufresne  J.-Wilfrid Dufresne (5 August 1911 – 30 June 1982) was a Progressive Conservative party member of the House of Commons of Canada. Born in Quebec City, Quebec, he held various other jobs such as interior decorator, promoter, teacher, a Quebec provincial public servant, a federal statistician for the Minimum Wages Commission.<ref name=CPG />  Dufresne attended schools at the Saint-Sauveur orphanage, Saint-Sauveur Academy and St. Mary's College.<ref name=CPG57 />  He was elected to Parliament at the Quebec West riding in the 1953 general election as a Progressive Conservative, defeating Liberal party incumbent Charles Parent. Dufresne served only one term in Parliament before Liberal René Bégin won the riding back in the 1957 election. His next attempt to win a House of Commons seat was made in the 1972 election where he was a Social Credit candidate at Langelier riding, but was unable to unseat incumbent Jean Marchand. His last federal campaign was in the 1979 election at Québec-Est where he returned to the Progressive Conservative party, but was again unsuccessful. Section::::References. <references />
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]
What is René Bégin's occupation? [SEP]
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]  The son of a wealthy Belgian textile industrialist, Robert Jonckheere developed early in life an enthusiasm for astronomy. At age 12, he began to travel in England to learn the language and the textile industry. He attended secondary school at the lycée of Tourcoing and attended college at Notre Dame des Victoires de Roubaix. With his family fortune, he built a private observatory on the roof of the family home in 1905 and became a member of l'société astronomique de France. In 1907, he found a site for a new observatory on a hill 20 meters above the surrounding land, which is now in the city of Hem near Lille. Construction started in December 1907 and ended with the installation of the telescope under the dome in 1909.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]  Jonckheere's observatory was not totally devoted to astronomy. The building complex had several offices, a residential house, a library, and a weather station.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]  Jonckheere was born in Hem, near Lille in France, in a house attached to an observatory. His father was Robert Jonckhèere, a French astronomer known for discovering 3350 double stars. Jonckheere took a first class degree in psychology with statistics in 1949 and a PhD in 1956, both from UCL.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]  Michiel Jonckheere (born 3 January 1990) is a Belgian footballer who currently plays for Kortrijk in the Belgian Pro League.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]  During World War I, Robert Jonckheere with his wife and children took refuge in England. During this period, the Royal Observatory, Greenwich allowed him to continue his study of double stars and published a catalogue presenting his results. For this catalogue, l'Académie des Sciences awarded him the Prix Lalande for 1917. In order to support his family, Jonckheere worked in the optical department of the Royal Arsenal in Woolwich. After the end of the war, he returned to France to find the family business in ruins. In 1920, he took over the business from his father but the 1920s were bad times for the business and the observatory. In 1929, Jonckhèere sold the telescope and equipment to the University of Lille for use by the Observatory of Lille.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP]
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP] Flemish literature  Flemish literature is literature from Flanders, historically a region comprising parts of present-day Belgium, France and the Netherlands. Until the early 19th century, this literature was regarded as an integral part of Dutch literature. After Belgium became independent from the Netherlands in 1830, the term Flemish literature acquired a narrower meaning and refers to the Dutch-language literature produced in Belgium. It remains a part of Dutch-language literature.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP] Kragujevac massacre  The Kragujevac massacre was the mass murder of between 2,778 and 2,794 mostly Serb men and boys in Kragujevac by German soldiers on 21 October 1941. It occurred in the German-occupied territory of Serbia during World War II, and came as a reprisal for insurgent attacks in the Gornji Milanovac district that resulted in the deaths of ten German soldiers and the wounding of 26 others. The number of hostages to be shot was calculated as a ratio of 100 hostages executed for every German soldier killed and 50 hostages executed for every German soldier wounded, a formula devised by Adolf Hitler with the intent of suppressing anti-Nazi resistance in Eastern Europe.  After a punitive operation was conducted in the surrounding villages, during which over 400 males were shot and four villages burned down, another 70 male Jews and communists who had been arrested in Kragujevac were killed. Simultaneously, males between the ages of 16 and 60, including high school students, were assembled by German troops and local collaborators, and the victims were selected from amongst them. The selected males were then marched to fields outside the city, shot with heavy machine guns, and their bodies buried in mass graves. Contemporary German military records indicate that 2,300 hostages were shot. After the war, inflated estimates ranged as high as 7,000 deaths, but German and Serbian scholars have now agreed on the figure of nearly 2,800 killed, including 144 high school students. As well as Serbs, massacre victims included Jews, Romani people, Muslims, Macedonians, Slovenes, and members of other nationalities.  Several senior German military officials were tried and convicted for their involvement in the reprisal shootings at the Nuremberg trials and the subsequent Nuremberg trials. The massacre had a profound effect on the course of the war in Yugoslavia. It exacerbated tensions between the two guerrilla movements, the communist-led Partisans and the royalist, Serbian nationalist Chetniks, and convinced Chetnik leader Draža Mihailović that further attacks against the Germans would only result in more Serb civilian deaths. The Germans soon found mass executions of Serbs to be ineffectual and counterproductive, as they tended to drive the population into the arms of insurgents. The ratio of 100 executions for one soldier killed and 50 executions for one soldier wounded was reduced by half in February 1943, and removed altogether later in the year. The massacre is commemorated by the October in Kragujevac Memorial Park and the co-located 21 October Museum, and has been the subject of several poems and feature films. The anniversary of the massacre is commemorated annually in Serbia as the Day of Remembrance of the Serbian Victims of World War II.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP] Ostend  Ostend (, ; ; ; ) is a coastal city and municipality, located in the province of West Flanders in the Flemish Region of Belgium. It comprises the boroughs of Mariakerke, Raversijde, Stene and Zandvoorde, and the city of Ostend proper – the largest on the Belgian coast.
What is Robert Jonckheere's occupation? [SEP] 1520s  The 1520s decade ran from January 1, 1520, to December 31, 1529.
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]  General Arafan Camara (1948 &ndash; 6 January 2008) was a politician and military official in Guinea. Camara was named Defense Minister on 28 March 2007 after mass protests forced a new government. He was dismissed as minister on 12 May 2007 after soldiers rioted concerning better working conditions and the re-instatement of sacked military leaders. He was replaced by retired Army General Bailo Diallo. He died on 6 January 2008 at the age of 60.
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]  Gilberto Câmara (born 29 March 1956) is a Brazilian computer scientist and is currently serving as the Secretariat Director for the Group on Earth Observations (GEO). He is a former director of Brazil's National Institute for Space Research (INPE) (from 2006 to 2013). He was head of INPE's Image Processing Division from 1991 to 1996 and Director for Earth Observation from 2001 to 2005. He is a researcher in the areas of Geographical Information Science, Spatial Databases, Spatial Analysis and Environmental Modelling. Gilberto is the principal investigator on the area of Spatial Databases and Spatial Environmental Models in the GEOMA research network for Environmental Modelling of
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]  He was born in Albelda de Iregua, La Rioja. He later moved to Madrid and graduated from the Dramatic Art School. He worked as an usher at the Figaro Theatre in Madrid.
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]  Camara was born in the Senegalese interior, though his exact date and place of birth are not known. His ethnicity has been described as Soninke, but a French contemporary described Camara as having "a mix of Moor and Berber blood" and notes that he spoke the Toucouleur language. Camara was recruited as a laptot or colonial soldier, probably in the early 1870s. In Dakar, January 1880, he volunteered to join an expedition led by Franco-Italian explorer Pierre Savorgnan de Brazza from the coast of Gabon to the Congo River. The mission included 11 other West African soldiers, 4 Gabonese interpreters, and 4 Frenchmen including Brazza. Camara quickly proved his worth on
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]  Juan del Carmen Cámara Mesa (born 13 February 1994) is a Spanish professional footballer who plays as a winger for Azerbaijani club Sabah FC on loan from Jagiellonia Białystok.
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP] Susu people  The Susu people are a Mande-speaking ethnic group living primarily in Guinea and Northwestern Sierra Leone, particularly in Kambia District. Influential in Guinea, smaller communities of Susu people are also found in the neighboring Guinea-Bissau and Senegal.  The Susu are a patrilineal society, predominantly Muslim, who favor endogamous cross-cousin marriages with polygynous households.  The Susu people are also referred to as Soosoo, Sossoé, Sosoe, Sosso, Soso, Sousou, Susso, Sussu, or Soussou.
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP] Irrfan Khan  Irrfan Khan () (born Sahabzade Irfan Ali Khan; 7 January 196729 April 2020), also known simply as Irrfan, was an Indian actor who worked in Indian cinema as well as British and American films. Widely regarded as one of the finest actors in Indian cinema, Khan's career spanned over 30 years and earned him numerous accolades, including a National Film Award, an Asian Film Award, and six Filmfare Awards. In 2011, he was awarded the Padma Shri, India's fourth highest civilian honour. In 2021, he was posthumously awarded the Filmfare Lifetime Achievement Award.  Khan made his film debut with a small role in "Salaam Bombay!" (1988), which was followed by years of struggle. He acted in a few Film and Television Institute of India student films such as "Reconnaissance" (1990), which was directed by Sandeep Chattopadhyay. After starring in the British film "The Warrior" (2001), he had his breakthrough with starring roles in the dramas "Haasil" (2003) and "Maqbool" (2004). He went on to gain critical acclaim for his roles in "The Namesake" (2006) for which he was nominated for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Supporting Male, "Life in a... Metro" (2007), and "Paan Singh Tomar" (2011). For portraying the title character in the last of these, he won the National Film Award for Best Actor. Further success came for his starring roles in "The Lunchbox" (2013), "Piku" (2015), and "Talvar" (2015) and he had supporting roles in the Hollywood films "The Amazing Spider-Man" (2012), "Life of Pi" (2012), "Jurassic World" (2015), and "Inferno" (2016). His other notable roles were in "Slumdog Millionaire" (2008), "New York" (2009), "Haider" (2014), and "Gunday" (2014), and the television series "In Treatment" (2010). His highest-grossing Hindi film release came with the comedy-drama "Hindi Medium" (2017), and his final film appearance was in its sequel "Angrezi Medium" (2020), both of which won him the Filmfare Award for Best Actor in 2018 and 2021. He made his single appearance in Telugu cinema in Sainikudu.  As of 2017, his films had grossed () at the worldwide box office. and died on 29 April 2020, at 53 years old, due to a colon infection caused by the disease.<ref name="death" /> Khan was described by Peter Bradshaw of "The Guardian" as "a distinguished and charismatic star in Hindi and English-language movies whose hardworking career was an enormously valuable bridge between South Asian and Hollywood cinema".<ref name="guardian" />
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP]
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP] Gangubai Kathiawadi  Gangubai Kathiawadi is a 2022 Indian Hindi-language biographical crime drama film directed by Sanjay Leela Bhansali and produced by Bhansali and Jayantilal Gada. The film stars Alia Bhatt as the titular character with Ajay Devgn, Shantanu Maheshwari, Vijay Raaz, Indira Tiwari, Seema Pahwa and Varun Kapoor in pivotal roles.  The film is loosely based on the true story of Ganga Jagjivandas Kathiawadi, popularly known as Gangubai Kothewali, whose life was documented in the book "Mafia Queens of Mumbai" written by S. Hussain Zaidi. The film depicts the rise of a simple girl from Kathiawad who had no choice but to embrace the ways of destiny and swing it in her favour. "Gangubai Kathiawadi" premiered at the 72nd Berlin International Film Festival on 16 February 2022, and was released in theatres on 25 February 2022.  "Gangubai Kathiawadi" received critical acclaim for its production value and Bhatt's performance. In its theatrical run the film grossed 153.69 core at the domestic box office and 209.77 globally emerging as a commercial success. Numerous publications listed "Gangubai Kathiawadi" and Bhatt's performance in the film on various year-end best films and performances lists of 2022,
What is Arafan Camara's occupation? [SEP] Ashraf Marwan  Ashraf Marwan (‎, 2 February 1944 – 27 June 2007) was an Egyptian billionaire, who worked as a spy for Israeli Mossad.   Egyptian officials claim he was a double agent who also worked for them.  From 1969, Marwan worked at the Presidential Office, first under Gamal Abdel Nasser and then as a close aide to his successor, President Anwar Sadat. In 2002, it became known that Marwan was recruited by Egyptian Intelligence and may have fed the Israeli Mossad with misleading information during the period leading up to the 1973 Arab-Israeli War.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Lewis spent the 1947–48 season back in the Third Division South with Brighton & Hove Albion before joining Dartford, where he remained until 1952, when he took up a position as groundsman.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  .
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  George Lewis Igaba-Ishimwe Maniraguha (born 16 June 2000) is a professional footballer who plays as a forward for club Arsenal.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Born in Kigali, Rwanda, Lewis moved to Tanzania at the age of one. He then moved to Norway the age of four, starting his career at local side Stakkevollan IF, before moving to Tromsdalen, and later Tromsø in 2015. He mostly played for the reserve teams of both clubs, notably notching 32 goals in 35 appearances over three seasons for Tromsdalen's reserve team.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP]  Attribution
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP] George Lewis (clarinetist)  George Lewis (born Joseph Louis Francois Zenon; July 13, 1900 – December 31, 1968) was an American jazz clarinetist who achieved his highest profile in the later decades of his life.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP] George E. Lewis  George Emanuel Lewis (born July 14, 1952) is an American composer, performer, and scholar of experimental music. He has been a member of the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians (AACM) since 1971, when he joined the organization at the age of 19. He is renowned for his work as an improvising trombonist and considered a pioneer of computer music, which he began pursuing in the late 1970s; in the 1980s he created Voyager, an improvising software he has used in interactive performances. and his book "A Power Stronger Than Itself: The AACM and American Experimental Music" received the American Book Award.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP] Twin Shadow  George William Lewis Jr. (born March 30, 1983), better known by his stage name Twin Shadow, is a Dominican-American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actor based in Los Angeles. He has released five studio albums to date: "Forget" (2010), "Confess" (2012), "Eclipse" (2015), "Caer" (2018), and "Twin Shadow" (2021).
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP] George Lewis Scott  George Lewis Scott (1708–1780) was a mathematician and literary figure who was tutor to the future George III from 1751 to 1755. A friend of the historian Edward Gibbon, the poet James Thomson and other members of the Georgian era literary world, he was described as 'perhaps the most accomplished of all amateur mathematicians who never gave their works to the world'.  He was married for a short time to the writer Sarah Scott but they separated after less than a year. His younger brother Caroline Frederick Scott was an army officer, who gained a reputation for brutality in the aftermath of the  1745 Jacobite Rising.
What is George Lewis's occupation? [SEP] SG Lewis  Samuel George Lewis (born 9 July 1994) is an English singer-songwriter, musician and record producer. He is mostly known for collaborating with many artists from Tove Lo, Dua Lipa, Victoria Monét, Jessie Ware, JP Cooper, Raye and Ray BLK to Bruno Major, Frances, Clairo and LANY.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP]  Louis Edward O'Dea (died 19 February 1955) was an Irish politician and solicitor. He was first elected to Dáil Éireann as a Sinn Féin Teachta Dála (TD) for the Galway constituency at the 1923 general election. He did not take his seat in the Dáil due to Sinn Féin's abstentionist policy. He did not contest June 1927 general election. In 1944 as a member of Fianna Fáil, he was elected to the 5th Seanad on the Cultural and Educational Panel.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP]  Denis O'Dea (26 April 1905 – 5 November 1978) was an Irish stage and film actor. He was born in Dublin and attended Synge Street CBS. When very young he and his mother Kathleen (from County Kerry) moved in with her sister, who kept a boarding house at 54 South Richmond Street. He worked in insurance until taking up acting. O'Dea was a leading member of Dublin's Abbey Theatre where he had a great acting career from 1929 to 1953; a list of his performances can be found in the Abbey archives. He also appeared in numerous plays by Irish playwright Teresa Deevy, some of which toured New York and England. His work led to a number of notable film roles, including two
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP]  Louis Francis DaPron (February 13, 1913, in Indiana &ndash; July 21, 1987, in Agoura, California) was an American dancer, choreographer and dance instructor. He worked often with tap dancer Donald O'Connor.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] Addison O'Dea – Documentary filmmaker ; Ann O'Dea – Irish journalist and businesswoman ; Ben O'Dea – New Zealand beach volleyball player ; Bob (Robert John) O'Dea – New Zealand rugby union player ; Brian O'Dea – Canadian smuggler and author ; Chris O'Dea – American documentary filmmaker. ; Cornelius (Connor) O'Dea, Bishop of Limerick (Appointed 1400; resigned 1426). ; Danny O'Dea – British actor ; Darrell O'Dea – Canadian musician and recording engineer ; Darren O'Dea – Soccer manager and retired Irish footballer. ; Denis O'Dea – Actor and father of Donnacha, below. ; Donnacha O'Dea – Olympic swimmer and professional poker player. ; Ebony O'Dea – Australian rules football player ; Edward John O'Dea (1856–1932), Bishop of dioceses Nesqually and
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP]  Louis O'Neill (April 25, 1925 – October 23, 2018) was a Canadian university professor, writer, priest and politician. O'Neill was a member of the National Assembly of Quebec from 1976–1981 and held two cabinet posts.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] Willie O'Dea  Willie O'Dea ( ; born 1 November 1952) is an Irish Fianna Fáil politician who has been a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Limerick City constituency since 2011, and previously from 1982 to 2011 for the Limerick East constituency. He has served as Minister for Defence from 2004 to 2010, and was a Minister of State in different departments from 1992 to 1994, and again from 1997 to 2004.  He resigned as Minister for Defence due to a controversy over a defamation case.<ref name=IT_20100218/>
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] Ken O'Dea  James Kenneth O'Dea (March 16, 1913 – December 17, 1985) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a catcher for the Chicago Cubs (1935–38), New York Giants (1939–41), St. Louis Cardinals (1942–46), and Boston Braves (1946).  O'Dea had the misfortune of playing on the same teams alongside some of the best catchers in the National League, which limited his playing time. Although he played most of his 12-year MLB career as a backup catcher, O'Dea was considered one of the best defensive catchers in the major leagues prior to World War II.<ref name="Backstop: a history of the catcher and a sabermetric ranking of 50 all-time greats"/>
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] Taylor Mays  Taylor Mays (born February 7, 1988) is a former American football safety. He won Washington state titles in track in both the 100-meter dash and 200-meter dash as a high school sophomore, before leaving track and field to dedicate himself to football. He played college football at USC, and was a three-time All-American. He was drafted by the San Francisco 49ers in the second round of the 2010 NFL Draft and also played in the NFL for the Cincinnati Bengals and Oakland Raiders, playing in 66 regular season NFL games.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] Field goal  A field goal (FG) is a means of scoring in gridiron football. To score a field goal, the team in possession of the ball must place kick, or drop kick, the ball through the goal, i.e., between the uprights and over the crossbar. The entire ball must pass through the vertical plane of the goal, which is the area above the crossbar and between the uprights or, if above the uprights, between their outside edges. American football requires that a field goal must only come during a play from scrimmage (except in the case of a fair catch kick) while Canadian football retains open field kicks and thus field goals may be scored at any time from anywhere on the field and by any player. The vast majority of field goals, in both codes, are place kicked. Drop kicked field goals were common in the early days of gridiron football but are almost never done in modern times. In most leagues, a successful field goal awards three points (a notable exception is six-man football in which, due to the small number of players available to stop the opposing team from blocking the kick, a field goal is worth four points).  A field goal may also be scored through a fair catch kick, but this is extremely rare. Since a field goal is worth only three points, as opposed to a touchdown, which is worth six points, it is usually only attempted in specific situations (see Strategy).  The goal structure consists of a horizontal crossbar suspended above the ground, with two vertical goalposts apart extending vertically from each end of the crossbar. In American football, the goals are centered on each end line; in Canadian football, they are centered on each goal line.
What is Louis O'Dea's occupation? [SEP] List of -gate scandals and controversies  This is a list of scandals or controversies whose names include a "-gate" suffix, by analogy with the Watergate scandal, as well as other incidents to which the suffix has (often facetiously) been applied. This list also includes controversies that are widely referred to with a "-gate" suffix, but may be referred to by another more common name (such as the New Orleans Saints bounty scandal, known as "Bountygate"). Use of the "-gate" suffix has spread beyond American English to many other countries and languages.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP]  Canon Derek Ingram Hill (11 September 1912 – 20 October 2003) was an Anglican priest, notable as a pastor, administrator and historian, active mainly in the south-east of England and particularly in the city of Canterbury and its cathedral.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP]  Derek Ingram Hill was born in Wimbledon, London but moved to Margate in 1916 for health reasons. At the age of 11, he was sent to The King's School, Canterbury, where he first formed a strong attachment to the cathedral and its pattern of worship and wrote a short guide to it. He then went to Trinity College, Oxford, to study modern history. At Trinity he developed a wider interest in the medieval churches of England. He visited every cathedral in the country by bicycle and wrote a study of the stained glass of Oxford. Moving to Wells Theological College to study for ordination, he again wrote a study of stained glass in local churches.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP]  Ingram Hill was ordained in 1935 and became curate at Buckland-in-Dover. This facilitated his developing interest in the cathedrals and abbeys of northern France, which he explored each summer, as usual by bicycle. However, he also built a growing reputation for his parish work, moving to a further curacy at St Andrew's, Croydon, in 1939, and later taking over as priest-in-charge and then vicar at Holy Innocents, South Norwood. This was at a time of constant danger during the London Blitz, but he made a great success of Holy Innocents, where he ministered for 14 years. Ingram Hill was invited to return to Canterbury by Archbishop Geoffrey
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP]  In 1964, while still at St Gregory's, Ingram Hill was appointed a member of the college of Six Preachers – originally a body charged by Archbishop Thomas Cranmer with preaching against Roman Catholicism, but by this time an honorific appointment, allowing the holder to sit with the Dean and Canons in cathedral services. He was made an Honorary Canon of the Cathedral in 1970. In 1976 Archbishop Donald Coggan appointed Ingram Hill a Canon Residentiary, a full-time member of the Cathedral Chapter. He held this position until his retirement in 1983. He was noted for his enthusiasm in promoting community interest in the cathedral itself and the churches of the surrounding city and countryside, as well as his punctilious
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP]  Derek Ingram Hill was married to Violet, who died in 1998. They had a daughter, who died in 2002, and a son.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP] Francis James Holland  Francis James Holland,(20 January 1828 – 27 January 1907) was a canon in the Church of England.  He was born in St. George, Middlesex, a son of Sir Henry Holland and Margaret Emma Caldwell. He went to Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge in 1846, graduating BA in 1850 and MA in 1853. Ordained in 1851, he was appointed vicar of St Dunstan's, Canterbury (1853–1861) and then minister at the Quebec Chapel, Marylebone (Middlesex) (1861–1883). He was also a Six Preacher (1859–1882) at Canterbury Cathedral and subsequently Canon Residentiary (1882–1907). He was sometime chaplain to Queen Victoria and honorary chaplain to King Edward VII.  In around 1880 he established a trust fund for two independent girls schools in London (see Francis Holland School for more information).  His career is also covered by the "Barchester Chronicles" by Clive Dewey published in London in 1991.  He married Mary Sybilla Lyall in 1855. She was a sister of Alfred Comyn Lyall and later converted to Catholicism. They had four sons (one of whom died young), and two daughters.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP] Kerry Ingram  Kerry Danielle Ingram (born 26 May 1999) is an English actress, known for her roles as Shireen Baratheon in the HBO series "Game of Thrones" and Rebecca 'Becky' Sidebottom in the Netflix series "Free Rein".
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP] Tyreek Hill  Tyreek Hill (born March 1, 1994) is an American football wide receiver for the Miami Dolphins of the National Football League (NFL). Hill was drafted by the Kansas City Chiefs in the fifth round of the 2016 NFL Draft. He played college football at Garden City Community College, Oklahoma State, and West Alabama.  Hill was primarily a return specialist as a rookie but has transitioned to strictly playing wide receiver. Following his rookie year, he received the nickname "Cheetah" in reference to his speed. He has been selected to seven Pro Bowls in his seven years in the league, won a Super Bowl title in Super Bowl LIV, and was named to the NFL 2010s All-Decade Team as a punt returner.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP] List of Still Game characters  "Still Game" is a Scottish sitcom series, following the lives of a group of pensioners who live in Craiglang, a fictional area of Glasgow. The show was created by and stars Ford Kiernan and Greg Hemphill, and first aired on BBC One Scotland on 6 September 2002.  The main characters are Jack Jarvis and Victor McDade, two lifelong friends who are neighbours in Osprey Heights, a block of flats. They like to visit their local pub together where their friends Winston Ingram, Tam Mullen and Eric often hang about. Other main characters include: Boabby the barman, Navid Harrid, owner of the local corner shop, and Jack and Victor's nosy neighbour Isa Drennan.  Many of the main characters' relatives make recurring appearances in the show such as; Navid's wife Meena, Tam's wife Frances and Isa's ex-husband Harry. Jack's daughter and Victor's son John make few appearances in the show, but have major plot roles in the few episodes they do appear in. Other recurring characters include: Chris the Postie, Stevie the Bookie and several other pub-goers.
What is Derek Ingram Hill's occupation? [SEP] Parade All-America Boys Basketball Team  The "Parade" All-America Boys Basketball Team was an annual selection by "Parade" that nationally honored the top high school boys' basketball players in the United States. It was part of the "Parade" All-American series that originated with boys basketball before branching to other sports. Started by the Sunday magazine in 1957, it had been the longest ongoing selection of high school basketball All-Americans in the country at the time of its final selections in 2015. Many of the honorees went on to star as college and professional basketball players.  At its onset, the selections were handled by a New York-based public relations firm, Publicity Enterprises, which was led by Haskell Cohen, who was a former sportswriter as well as the publicity director for the NBA at the time (1950–1969). The first All-America team in 1957 consisted of three five-player teams, and the first-team selections appeared on television on "The Steve Allen Show". The following year, 20 players were selected and participated in the first annual "Parade" All-American high school game. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, known then as Lew Alcindor, became the first sophomore in 1963 to be named a "Parade" All-American. Fifteen years later, Earl Jones became the next sophomore to earn first-team honors, and subsequently joined Abdul-Jabbar as the first two players to be named to the first team on three occasions. "It was a real thrill for me to make it on the "Parade" list early, when I was just a sophomore. The recognition is a great thing for kids to shoot for," said Abdul-Jabbar as part of the announcement for the 2000 team.  Starting in 2011, the selections were compiled in conjunction with "Sporting News" and their writer, Brian McLaughlin. Candidates also began to be limited to players in their senior year. McLaughlin described the selections as mostly Division I college-bound players that had a stellar senior year in high school. Additionally, "Parade" differentiated itself from most other All-American teams by not focusing solely on a player's standing among college recruiters. For example, some selectors might choose top recruits that had been injured much of their senior year. "Parade" discontinued its boys' basketball All-America selections after 2015.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP]  Sebaki Devi Das Tatma (सबकी देवी दास तात्मा) is a Nepalese politician, belonging to the Madhesi Janadhikar Forum. During the campaigns of MJF for Madhesi autonomy, Tatma took parts in rallies of the movement. Following the 2008 Constituent Assembly election, she was selected by MJF from the Proportional Representation quota to represent the party in the assembly. Prior to becoming a Constituent Assembly member, the 32-year-old Tatma worked as a domestic servant. She has four children.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP]  group base of over 700 artisan groups, collectively comprising over 1 lakh craftspeople. Under the aegis of Dastkar, Tyabji has worked with Self-Employed Women's Association of India (SEWA), a similar non-governmental organization founded by renowned Gandhian, Ela Bhatt, URMUL, Sandur Kushal Kala Kendra, Rangsutra, SASHA, Berozgar Mahila Kalyan Samiti, and many others. Other major DASTKAR projects are in Kashmir for the social reestablishment of the victims of terrorism, in Ranthambore, for the rehabilitation of the people who were evacuated for the National Park and in Bellary for the revival of the dying art of Lambani embroidery. She is associated with
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP]  working in women's organizations, toiling peoples' movements including agricultural laborers' movement, and social work. She is the core leader Stree Mukti Sangharsh Chalwal with several other rural women fighting against violence and for survival and livelihoods. Through this work she led the struggle of parityakta (abandoned/deserted) women. This movement of parityakta women for ration cards, alimony, and recognition of their rights has gone on since 1988 in Satara, Sangli and Kolhapur districts. This was one of her special contributions. After her son Bharat Patankar became a full-time activist in the movement, she has been supporting him morally and economically, along with his wife Gail Omvedt, and has taken leading role and part in every activity of Shramik Mutki Dal.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP]  Born on 27 March 1915 to Rameswar Saikia and Swarnalata in North Lakhimpur in Assam, Das did her schooling at Panbazar Girls High School. She started her political activities from school days and was the secretary of an organization by name,  Mukti Sangha. In 1931, she and her comrades organized a protest against the hanging of the revolutionary, Bhagat Singh by the British Raj and was expelled from school. She continued her studies as a private student and passed the matriculation examination in 1934, after which she joined Benaras Hindu University to complete her intermediate course. Later, she graduated from Andhra University and secured post-graduate degree from the same university in 1938. Subsequently, she enrolled herself for studies in Law at Earle Law College, Guwahati where continued her student politics; she was the secretary of the college union in 1940. It was during this time, Gandhiji called for Individual Satyagraha, as a part of civil disobedience movement and as a precursor to the Quit India Movement which would be launched two years later, and Das participated in the movement. She was incarcerated which effectively cut short her law studies.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP]  In 1942, Indutai left her parental home at the age of 16 and joined the 1942 Independence movement against the British rule, organizing women and spreading the Rashtra Seva Dal. She gradually started taking part in the underground movement of the prati sarkar by 1943, carrying arms (pistols and revolvers) to the fighters. She married Krantivir Babuji Patankar on 1 January 1946, with whom she had fallen in love during her work with the 'Prati Sarkar'. Both were leading activists in the 'Prati Sarkar' or the parallel government movement that was part of the India's independence movement in the Satara District in the
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP] Tattama  The Tattama are Hindu caste found in the state of Bihar in India.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP] formal training. Later, she trained Ras Leela at Govindaji Nartanalaya (Government of Manipur Dance College) from the age of 10, passing the degrees, "visharad" and "acharya" and also trained under gurus such as Maishnam Amubi Singh, Amudon Sharma, H. Tomba, A. Tomba Singh, Lourembam Tombi Devi and R. K. Tomalsana before starting to perform professionally. She has performed at many art festivals in India and other countries such as Canada, West Germany, London, Dubai and USA. Thouranisabi Devi is associated with Jawaharlal Nehru Manipur Dance Academy and has directed one of its ballet productions, "Radha Sati". She taught at the
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP] her responsibilities as Country Representative Bhutan, Chief of Health Section, UNICEF India and Chief Upper India Office responsible for Bihar and Uttar Pradesh and State Representative, U.P. She co-founded SEWA, Lucknow, along with Runa Banerjee in 1984, which has been involved in organising women engaged in chikankari industry. It was given the 2006 Best Practices Award by UN-HABITAT. In 2000, she became a founding member of BETI Foundation, established in Lucknow and working in the areas of Bahraich, Balrampur, Barabanki, Gonda, Kheri, Lalitpur, Lucknow, Shravasti, Sitapur. She was a member of the National Advisory Council during the tenure of 2005-2008.
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP] She is also a member of the executive committee of the National Mission for the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan, for universalization of elementary education in India. Sehba Hussain Sehba Hussain is an Indian social activist. She is the co-founder and honorary treasurer of Self-Employed Women's Association (SEWA) in Lucknow. and founding Board member and Executive Director of Lucknow-based, BETI (Better Education Through Innovation) Foundation, established in 2000. Sehba Hussain was born in Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. She did her post graduate studies from University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, as a Fulbright Scholar, and also did her Masters in Medical & Psychiatric Social Work
What is Sebaki Devi Das Tatma's occupation? [SEP] and protests were subsequently held in Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Hyderabad, Thiruvananthapuram, Bhopal and Bengaluru. Saba Dewan Saba Dewan is an Indian documentary film maker based in New Delhi. Her films are based on sexuality, gender, identity, communalism and culture. Her notable works include "Dharmayuddha" (Holy War, 1989), "Nasoor" (Festering Wound, 1991), "Khel" (The Play, 1994), "Barf" (Snow, 1997) and "Sita's Family" (2001). She is best known for her trilogy on stigmatized female performers, "Delhi-Mumbai-Delhi" (2006), "Naach" (The Dance, 2008) and "The Other Song" (2009). Saba was born and brought up in New Delhi. She finished her schooling in 1982 and
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP]  Howard Thomas Fowles (24 January 1894 – 17 May 1973) was an Australian politician. He was a member of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly from  1941 until 1968 and a member of the Labor Party (ALP). He was the acting Speaker of the New South Wales Legislative Assembly for 3 months in 1962. Fowles was born in Merrylands, New South Wales. He was the son of a blacksmith, was  educated to elementary level at state schools. From the age of 14 he worked as a linesman for the New South Wales Government Railways and was an official in the Electrical Trades Union until 1941. In later life, he was also a poultry farmer. Fowles was elected to the New South Wales Parliament as the Labor member for the seat of Illawarra at the 1941 state election. . The sitting Labor member Billy Davies successfully contested the new seat of Wollongong-Kembla at that election. He retained the seat for the next 8 elections and retired at the 1968 state election.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP]  Edwin Wesley Howard Fowles (17 June 1871 – 29 December 1945) was a barrister, journalist, and member of the Queensland Legislative Council.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP]  Fowles was born in 1978 and grew up in Hawthorn. His father was a business owner and his mother was a primary school teacher, who has since retrained as a nurse. He attended Saint Joseph’s Primary School and then Scotch College. He has three younger brothers. Fowles began his studies at Monash University in 1997, completing his Bachelor of Commerce in 2001 and his Bachelor of Laws in 2003. Fowles was elected President of the Monash Student Association for 2000, from a ticket composed primarily of Labor students.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP]  Will Fowles (born 27 July 1978) is an Australian politician. He has been a Labor Party member of the Victorian Legislative Assembly since November 2018, representing the seat of Burwood in Melbourne's Eastern suburbs. During his time in office, Fowles has voiced support for growing social housing and mental health reform. He is a member of the Legislative Assembly Environment and Planning Committee and has a commercial background extending from hospitality to finance, property and strategic communication.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP]  Joining the community, Fowles served as the curator of the Lyme Regis Museum from 1979 to 1988, retiring from the museum after having a mild stroke. Fowles was occasionally involved in local politics, writing letters to The Times advocating preservation. Despite this involvement, he was generally considered reclusive.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP] Edwin Fowles  Edwin Wesley Howard Fowles (17 June 1871 – 29 December 1945) was a barrister, journalist, and member of the Queensland Legislative Council.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP] John Fowles  John Robert Fowles (; 31 March 1926 – 5 November 2005) was an English novelist of international renown, critically positioned between modernism and postmodernism. His work was influenced by Jean-Paul Sartre and Albert Camus, among others.  After leaving Oxford University, Fowles taught English at a school on the Greek island of Spetses, a sojourn that inspired "The Magus" (1965), an instant best-seller that was directly in tune with 1960s "hippy" anarchism and experimental philosophy. This was followed by "The French Lieutenant's Woman" (1969), a Victorian-era romance with a postmodern twist that was set in Lyme Regis, Dorset, where Fowles lived for much of his life. Later fictional works include "The Ebony Tower" (1974), "Daniel Martin" (1977), "Mantissa"  (1982), and "A Maggot" (1985).  Fowles's books have been translated into many languages, and several have been adapted as films.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP] Harold Pinter  Harold Pinter (; 10 October 1930 – 24 December 2008) was a British playwright, screenwriter, director and actor. A Nobel Prize winner, Pinter was one of the most influential modern British dramatists with a writing career that spanned more than 50 years. His best-known plays include "The Birthday Party" (1957), "The Homecoming" (1964) and "Betrayal" (1978), each of which he adapted for the screen. His screenplay adaptations of others' works include "The Servant" (1963), "The Go-Between" (1971), "The French Lieutenant's Woman" (1981), "The Trial" (1993) and "Sleuth" (2007). He also directed or acted in radio, stage, television and film productions of his own and others' works.  Pinter was born and raised in Hackney, east London, and educated at Hackney Downs School. He was a sprinter and a keen cricket player, acting in school plays and writing poetry. He attended the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art but did not complete the course. He was fined for refusing national service as a conscientious objector. Subsequently, he continued training at the Central School of Speech and Drama and worked in repertory theatre in Ireland and England. In 1956 he married actress Vivien Merchant and had a son, Daniel, born in 1958. He left Merchant in 1975 and married author Lady Antonia Fraser in 1980.  Pinter's career as a playwright began with a production of "The Room" in 1957. His second play, "The Birthday Party", closed after eight performances but was enthusiastically reviewed by critic Harold Hobson. His early works were described by critics as "comedy of menace". Later plays such as "No Man's Land" (1975) and "Betrayal" (1978) became known as "memory plays". He appeared as an actor in productions of his own work on radio and film, and directed nearly 50 productions for stage, theatre and screen. Pinter received over 50 awards, prizes and other honours, including the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2005 and the French Légion d'honneur in 2007.  Despite frail health after being diagnosed with oesophageal cancer in December 2001, Pinter continued to act on stage and screen, last performing the title role of Samuel Beckett's one-act monologue "Krapp's Last Tape", for the 50th anniversary season of the Royal Court Theatre, in October 2006. He died from liver cancer on 24 December 2008.
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP] John Greenleaf Whittier  John Greenleaf Whittier (December 17, 1807 – September 7, 1892) was an American Quaker poet and advocate of the abolition of slavery in the United States. Frequently listed as one of the fireside poets, he was influenced by the Scottish poet Robert Burns. Whittier is remembered particularly for his anti-slavery writings, as well as his 1866 book "Snow-Bound".
What is Howard Fowles's occupation? [SEP] Colin Wilson  Colin Henry Wilson (26 June 1931 – 5 December 2013) was an English writer and novelist. He also wrote widely on true crime, mysticism and the paranormal,<ref>"Colin Wilson, author of The Outsider, dies aged 82"  BBC News, 13 December 2013. Retrieved 15 December 2013.</ref> eventually writing more than a hundred books. Wilson called his philosophy "new existentialism" or "phenomenological existentialism", and maintained his life work was "that of a philosopher, and (his) purpose to create a new and optimistic existentialism".
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]  For the Spanish painter, see Asensio Julià Julia de Asensi (4 May 1859 – 7 November 1921) was a Spanish journalist, translator and writer.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]  Asensi was born at Alicante. She studied journalism at the Autonomous University of Barcelona, and she later worked for three years in the service of news of Radio Alicante-SER and Radio Nacional de España (RNE, Spanish National Radio) as the person in charge of local and provincial news. She was also correspondent for Agencia EFE and provincial contributor in the newspapers La Verdad and Información.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]  For the Spanish writer, see Julia de Asensi Asensio Julià i Alvarracín, nicknamed El Pescadoret, the Little Fisherman (c.1759/60, Valencia - 22 February or 25 October 1832, Madrid) was a Spanish painter and engraver who was closely associated with Francisco de Goya.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]  María de las Nieves Asensio Liñán known as Neus Asensi (born 4 August 1965, in Barcelona) is a Spanish actress. She had a very complete training to become an actress. She studied classic dance for 5 years and jazz-dance. She studied drama in the centre "La Casona" and one speech therapy course. She has a feature role in the Spanish TV comedy Los hombres de Paco.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]  Julia Draganović (born 1963 in Hamburg, Germany) is a German curator and cultural manager. German-Italian cultural relations have been a recurring theme in her work. In July 2019 she became director of the German Academy in Rome Villa Massimo (Deutsche Akademie Rom Villa Massimo).
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP] Julia de Asensi  Julia de Asensi (4 May 1859 – 7 November 1921) was a Spanish journalist, translator and writer.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP] List of Spanish women writers  This is a list of women writers who were born in Spain or whose writings are closely associated with that country.
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP] List of women writers (A–L)  This is a list of notable women writers.  Abbreviations: b. (born), c. (circa), ch. (children's), col. (columnist), es. (essayist), fl. (flourished), Hc. (Holocaust), mem. (memoirist), non-f. (non-fiction), nv. (novelist), pw. (playwright), wr. (writer), TV (television), YA (young adult)
What is Julia de Asensi's occupation? [SEP]
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP]  Đurđa Ivezić (17 October 1936 – 11 December 2020) was a Croatian film, television and stage actress.
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP]  Lutovac Đurđević received the 153th position on the Progressive Party's Aleksandar Vučić — Future We Believe In electoral list for the 2014 Serbian parliamentary election and was elected when the list won a landslide victory with 158 out of 250 mandates. For the next two years, she served in parliament as a supporter of Vučić's government. She was promoted to the 147th position on the successor Aleksandar Vučić — Serbia is Winning list in the 2016 Serbian parliamentary election and was not immediately re-elected when the list won a second, narrower majority victory with 131 mandates. She returned to the assembly on 23 February 2019 as a replacement for Ivana Stojiljković, who had resigned.
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP]  She started her academic career at Faculty of Philosophy, University of Pristina in 1987. There she teaches the course Sociology II. Besides that, she teaches sociology and methodology of scientific research at University of Belgrade and is Vice-Dean in charge of postgraduate studies and scientific and research work at the University of Belgrade Faculty of Civil Defense. She also taught at the International Interdisciplinary Post-Graduate Studies "State Executive and Humanitarian Activities", organized by University of Belgrade in co-operation with La Sapienza University, Rome, and the University of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP]  She was born 21 July 1990 in Belgrade. Her father is Rajko Đurđević, a journalist, writer and publicist. She graduated from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Political Sciences. She distinguished herself as the leader of ultranationalist protests with the support of other right-wing organizations against the 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence, the arrest of Radovan Karadžić, Ratko Mladić, the ICTY verdicts and the implementation of agreements on border crossings between Serbia and Kosovo, and the Brussels Agreement. Protests were also organized against the arrival of former British Prime Minister Tony Blair and the ratification of the Agreement between Serbia and NATO on the cooperation in the field of logistical support. She participated at the rally in support of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and at the rally in support of the Russian Federation on the occasion of the annexation of Crimea and the War in Donbas. She was the leader of the list of the Serbian Party Oathkeepers for the 2014 Serbian parliamentary elections in a coalition with Borislav Pelevic, however the list did not pass the census. On 10 September 2017, she married Stefan Stamenkovski, president and founder of the Serbian Party Oathkeepers.
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP]  Violeta Lutovac Đurđević, formerly known as Violeta Lutovac, is a politician in Serbia. She served in the National Assembly of Serbia from 2014 to 2016 and returned to the assembly to begin a second mandate on 13 February 2019. Lutovac Đurđević is a member of the Serbian Progressive Party.
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP] together with other artists, she broke away from mainstream settings, pioneering video, conceptual photomontages and performance. Much of her work is centred on her own life and the place of women in today's society. She was the first artist in Croatia to label herself a feminist artist. She has been a key player at the Centre for Women's Studies in Zagreb since it opened in 1994. Iveković's activism extends beyond her art. She has founded or been engaged with Croatian women's organizations such as ELEKTRA-Women's Art Center, B.a.B.e., Autonomous Cultural Center—ATTACK!, Center for Women War Victims, and the Association of
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP] 2014 she was shortlisted for the Artes Mundi prize, exhibiting her photography-based works, "GEN XX (1997–2001)" and "The Disobedient (The Revolutionaries)" at the Turner House Gallery, Penarth, Wales. Sanja Iveković Sanja Iveković (born 1949 in Zagreb) is a Croatian photographer, sculptor and installation artist. Her work is known to tackle such issues as female identity, media, consumerism, and political strife. Considered to be one of the leading artists from the former Yugoslavia, she continues to inspire many young artists. Iveković was born in Zagreb in 1949, when it was still part of Yugoslavia under the rule of Marshal Josip Broz
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP] Sanda Rašković Ivić Dr. Sanda Rašković Ivić (; ; born on January 8, 1956 in Zagreb) is a Serbian psychiatrist, psychotherapist and politician. From 2014 to 2016, she was the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia. She was commissioner for refugees, the president of Coordination Center for Kosovo and Metohija, Serbian ambassador to Italy and member of the Serbian Parliament. In October 2017 she joined newly formed Vuk Jeremić's centre-right People's Party. She is a daughter of Dr. Jovan Rašković. She finished primary and high school in Šibenik and the School of Medicine of the University of Zagreb in
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP] "Occupation in 26 Pictures", a controversial 1976 film directed by Lordan Zafranović. The director noticed her talent and cast her in the main female role in his next film, "The Fall of Italy" where she played Veronika, the daughter of a wealthy local from the Dalmatia coast who sided with occupying Italian Fascists. This debut established Ena Begović as one of the sex symbols of 1980s Yugoslav cinema, a status that she later successfully maintained despite appearing in relatively few films as her acting career shifted towards theater. In the 1990s she was kept in the public eye more due
What is Đurđa Ivezić's occupation? [SEP] when she was thirty". In his embittered speech at the conference during which he resigned his post, Mićunović characterized the manner of Đinđić's takeover of DS as the "combination of Machiavellianism and revolutionary technique". In this internal party showdown with Mićunović, Đinđić also benefited from some discreet support in the Milošević-controlled state-run media. Though many DS members didn't like the way this transfer of power was executed, symbolically referring to it as "oceubistvo" (patricide). Đinđić managed to quickly move DS away from what he occasionally referred to in derisive terms as the "debate club" towards a modern and efficient organizational
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Widdrington (died 1664) ; Ralph Widdrington (died 1688) ; Ralph Widdrington (1640&ndash;1718)
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP]  Theo Jack Widdrington (born 6 April 1999) is an English professional footballer who plays for Gosport Borough, on loan from Havant & Waterlooville, as a midfielder.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP]  Thomas Elrington (1688–1732), was an English actor.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Widdrington (died 1664) ; Ralph Widdrington (died 1688) ; Ralph Widdrington (1640&ndash;1718)
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP]  steward of the king's inns of court. A post in the Quit-rent Office was also given him, and by Lord Mountjoy he was made "gunner to the train of artillery", a post of some emolument, which subsequently he was allowed to sell. Under his management Smock Alley Theatre prospered, and he enjoyed high social and artistic consideration. Elrington made occasional visits to London, playing, 24 January 1715, at Drury Lane, Cassius in Julius Cæsar, appearing subsequently as Torrismond in the Spanish Friar, Hotspur, Orestes, Sylla in Caius Marius, Mithridates, &c., and the first to play the Earl of Pembroke in Nicholas Rowe's Lady Jane Grey. On 6 October 1716 he
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] Tommy Widdrington  Thomas Widdrington (born 1 October 1971) is an English former football player and manager who is currently manager of club King's Lynn Town.  As a midfielder, he made 372 appearances in the English Football League in a 15-year career, before spending five years in non-league football. His career began at Southampton in 1990, where he spent the first six years of his career most of which were in the Premier League. In 1996, he moved to Grimsby Town, helping the "Mariners" to the League Trophy and promotion out of the Second Division in 1998. The next year he moved on to Port Vale for a two-year spell. Voted the club's Player of the Year in 2000, he captained the "Valiants" to the League Trophy in 2001. Later in the year he was transferred to Hartlepool United, helping the club to win promotion out of League Two in 2002–03, before he moved on to Macclesfield Town. In 2005 his career in the Football League ended back at Port Vale. He then spent 2005 to 2010 at non-league Salisbury City. As a player, he enjoyed promotion four times with three clubs, and lifted the Football League Trophy twice.  Player-manager at Salisbury City for the 2009–10 season, he returned to the Football League at Southend United, as assistant manager but left the position in December 2010. He was appointed Hemel Hempstead Town manager in October 2011, before he was put it charge at Eastbourne Borough in February 2012. He left Eastbourne Borough in April 2017 and went on to work as head of recruitment at Coventry City and Bristol Rovers, before becoming caretaker-manager of the latter in November 2020. He returned to full-time management at King's Lynn Town in December 2021.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] Second Protectorate Parliament  The Second Protectorate Parliament in England sat for two sessions from 17 September 1656 until 4 February 1658, with Thomas Widdrington as the Speaker of the House of Commons. In its first session, the House of Commons was its only chamber; in the second session an Other House with a power of veto over the decisions of the Commons was added.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] William Lenthall  William Lenthall (1591–1662) was an English politician of the Civil War period. He served as Speaker of the House of Commons for a period of almost twenty years, both before and after the execution of King Charles I.  He is best remembered for his dignified defiance of the king on 4 January 1642 when Charles entered the chamber of the House of Commons, supported by 400 armed men, in an attempt to seize five members whom he accused of treason. When Charles asked Lenthall where the five were, Lenthall famously replied "I have neither eyes to see nor tongue to speak in this place but as this House is pleased to direct me". It was the first time in English history that a speaker of the House of Commons had declared his allegiance to the liberty of parliament rather than the will of the monarch.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP] Bulstrode Whitelocke  Sir Bulstrode Whitelocke (6 August 1605 – 28 July 1675) was an English lawyer, writer, parliamentarian and Lord Keeper of the Great Seal of England.
What is Thomas Widdrington's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP]  Jean-Marie-Victor Viel (1796–1863) was a French architect who designed the Palais de l'Industrie, an exhibition hall located between the Seine River and the Champs-Élysées which was erected for the Paris World Fair in 1855.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] Alain Viel, French educator ; Cristián Viel (born 1967), Argentine rugby union player ; Felipe Viel (born 1971), Chilean actor ; Jean-Marie-Victor Viel (1796–1863), French architect ; Marguerite Viel, French screenwriter and film director ; Mattia Viel (born 1995), Italian cyclist ; Nicolas Viel (died 1625), French missionary ; Placide Viel (1815–1877), French nun and mother general ; Roger Viel (1902–1981), French athlete ; Sabrina Viel (born 1973), Italian ice hockey player ; Tanguy Viel (born 1973), French writer
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP]  Viel was born on January 28, 1997, in Rimouski, Quebec, Canada.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] Viel Bjerkeset Andersen (born 1963), Norwegian artist
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP]  Joseph-Marie Vien (sometimes anglicised as Joseph-Mary Wien; 18 June 1716 &ndash; 27 March 1809) was a French painter. He was the last holder of the post of Premier peintre du Roi, serving from 1789 to 1791.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] 1855 in architecture  The year 1855 in architecture involved some significant architectural events and new buildings.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] Horace de Viel-Castel  Marc-Roch-Horace de Salviac, comte de Viel-Castel, known as Horace de Viel-Castel (16 August 1802 Paris – 1 October 1864), was an art lover and collector, and director of the Louvre until 1863. A Bonapartist, he staunchly supported Napoleon III. He was an intimate of Princess Mathilde and of Alfred de Musset, the right arm of Nieuwerkerke until his disgrace on 12 March 1863. He was a great-nephew of Victor de Riqueti, marquis de Mirabeau.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral  Mary, Queen of the World Cathedral or in full Mary, Queen of the World and St. James the Great Cathedral () is a minor basilica in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, and the seat of the Roman Catholic archdiocese of Montreal. It is the third largest church in Quebec after Saint Joseph's Oratory (also in Montreal) and the Basilica of Sainte-Anne-de-Beaupré east of Quebec City. The building is 101 m (333 ft) in length, 46 m (150 ft) in width, and a maximum height of 77 m (252 ft) at the cupola, the diameter of which is 23 m (75 ft).  The church is located at 1085 Cathedral Street at the corner of René Lévesque Boulevard and Metcalfe Street, near the Bonaventure metro station and Central Station in downtown Montreal. It and the connected Archdiocese main buildings form the eastern side of Place du Canada, and occupies of dominant presences on Dorchester Square.
What is Jean-Marie-Victor Viel's occupation? [SEP] List of French films of 1934  A list of films released in France in 1934:
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP]  Virginia Haviland (May 21, 1911 – January 6, 1988) was an American librarian and writer who became an international authority in children's literature. She chaired the prestigious Newbery-Caldecott Award Committee, traveled and wrote extensively. Haviland is also well known for her Favorite Fairy Tales series, featuring stories from sixteen countries.
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP]  Virginia Haviland was born in Rochester, New York, to William J. Haviland and Bertha M. Esten. She grew up mainly in Massachusetts. During her childhood, she traveled abroad and spent time with two aunts who entertained international visitors in their home. The early influence of contact with international visitors may have influenced her adult interest in traveling and working with international colleagues. Haviland held a BA in economics and mathematics from Cornell University (1933). She became a children's librarian in 1934 for the Boston Public Library, under the tutelage of Alice Jordan, founder of children's services there. She was a branch librarian and children's librarian at Boston from 1948 to 1952, and a reader's adviser for children from 1952 to 1963. Haviland studied folklore
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP]  Russia. Some of these stories may seem violent or fantastical to our modern sensibilities, yet they often reflect the deepest yearnings and imaginings of the human mind and heart. Virginia Haviland traveled abroad frequently and was able to draw upon librarians, storytellers, and writers in countries as far away as Japan to help her make her selections. But she was also an avid researcher with a keen interest in rare books, and most of the stories she included in the series were found through a diligent search of old collections. Ms. Haviland was associated with the Boston Public Library for nearly
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP]  Haviland was awarded the Regina Medal "for continuous distinguished contribution to children's literature" from the Catholic Library Association in 1976, and the Grolier Award for "unusual contributions to the stimulation and guidance of reading by children and young people" by the ALA that same year. The ALA would also give her an Honorary Life Membership in 1982 "for her many accomplishments on behalf of children and for those professionals who work with children in the United States and throughout the world ... the Association joins her colleagues who have bestowed upon her the rank of Ambassador for Children's Books." Her "interest and participation in the international arena was ahead of her time and gave the United States an established place in international children's library and literature organizations. She left a worthy legacy for children's literature at the Library of Congress at the culmination of her career."
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP]  was invited to found the Center for Children's Literature at the Library of Congress in Washington DC. She became its first Head in 1963, and worked for the Library of Congress until her retirement in 1981. In a note to Haviland's cousin, author C. S. Haviland, fellow Regina Medal-winning author Jane Yolen wrote: "She was funny, acerbic, brilliant, and did not suffer fools at all. She was also gracious, never condescending, and saw her calling (as a librarian) as one of the highest callings of all. Her knowledge of American and British children's literature—and folklore in particular—was encyclopedic. It's been years since she died, but I still think of her." Virginia Haviland died of a stroke on January 6, 1988, in Washington, D.C.
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP] Virginia Haviland  Virginia Haviland (May 21, 1911 – January 6, 1988) was an American librarian and writer who became an international authority in children's literature. She chaired the prestigious Newbery-Caldecott Award Committee, traveled and wrote extensively. Haviland is also well known for her "Favorite Fairy Tales" series, featuring stories from sixteen countries.
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP] Laura Smith Haviland  Laura Smith Haviland (December 20, 1808 – April 20, 1898) was an American abolitionist, suffragette, and social reformer. She was a Quaker and an important figure in the history of the Underground Railroad.
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP] Willis Bradley Haviland  Commander Willis Bradley Haviland, (10 March 1890 – 28 November 1944) was a pioneer military pilot in World War I and a Naval Air Station Commanding Officer in World War II. As the sixteenth American volunteer in the Lafayette Escadrille, he was among the first air combat pilots to fight the Germans in World War I, before the United States officially entered the war. He would later become the first pilot to launch a plane from a battleship. Section::::Early life. Born on 10 March 1890 in Minneapolis, Minnesota, Willis was the only son of Dr. Willis Henry Haviland (10 Sep 1864 – 15 Jan 1939) by his first wife Grace Hynes. His parents divorced 28 Jun 1895, when he was only about 5 years old, and Dr. Haviland remarried to Mary Page Irvine on 22 Jul 1895 in Butte, Montana. Willis Bradley Haviland would remain close to his biological mother well into his adulthood.  He attended Kemper Military School and Iowa State College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts at Ames.  His father was elected a Montana State Senator in 1906 for one term in the Democratic Party. Meanwhile, young Willis B. Haviland enlisted in the United States Navy from 1907 to 1911. When war broke out in Europe, Willis joined the American Field Service (American Ambulance Corp, nicknamed "Friends of France") in 1915. There he drove ambulances for seventeen months at the Alsace front. When the Field Service and American Ambulance severed ties in the summer of 1916, Willis received a pilot's license on 7 September in that year and entered the American Escadrille (soon afterward renamed Lafayette Escadrille) becoming the sixteenth American volunteer pilot in the squadron.
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP] E. C. Spykman  Elizabeth Choate Spykman (b. Elizabeth Choate on July 17, 1896 in Southborough, Massachusetts - d. August 7, 1965) was an American author known primarily for her children's books.  Choate married geostrategist and founder of the Department of International Studies at Yale University Nicholas J. Spykman (pronounced "Speak-man") in her mid-thirties, and had two daughters. In 1955, at the age of 59, she published her first children's book, "A Lemon and a Star". Her second, "The Wild Angel", was published in 1957. "Terrible, Horrible Edie" was published in 1960, and her final children's book, "Edie on the Warpath", was published posthumously in 1966.  These four books are about the Cares children growing up in Summerton, Massachusetts in the 1910s. They are widely believed to be autobiographical fiction. Virginia Haviland, writing in "The Horn Book", said of "A Lemon and a Star", "A remarkable evocation of turn-of-the-century growing-up in a story with a strong feeling of particular family reminiscence and at the same time of universal childhood . . . Unusually well written."  Spykman also wrote a history of the Westover School in 1959. In this, she wrote of the Westover School architecture, "the building was intentionally kept free from luxury as unsuited to school life and out of harmony with the atmosphere of the village, and the quiet refinement which goes with straightforward simplicity."
What is Virginia Haviland's occupation? [SEP] Alice Dalgliesh  Alice Dalgliesh (October 7, 1893 – June 11, 1979) was a naturalized American writer and publisher who wrote more than 40 fiction and non-fiction books, mainly for children. She has been called "a pioneer in the field of children's historical fiction". Three of her books were runners-up for the annual Newbery Medal, the partly autobiographical "The Silver Pencil", "The Bears on Hemlock Mountain", and "The Courage of Sarah Noble", which was also named to the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award list.  As the founding editor (in 1934) of Scribner's and Sons Children's Book Division, Dalgliesh published works by award-winning authors and illustrators including Robert A. Heinlein, Marcia Brown, Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, Katherine Milhous, Will James, Leonard Weisgard, and Leo Politi. Her prominence in the field of children's literature led to her being appointed the first president of the Children's Book Council, a national nonprofit trade association of children's book publishers and presses.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP]  Frances Currey was born in Indianapolis, Indiana in 1925. She was raised on a farm in Jennings County, Indiana. In the mid-1960s, Currey was a school teacher, teaching third grade in Liberty, Indiana. She had earned her master's degree at Ball State University in Elementary Education. She also studied for her doctorate, studying Alzheimer's disease at Earlham College. She married and had three children.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP]  Frances Joseph-Gaudet (1861 – December 1934) was an American educator, social worker and prison reformer, honored as a saint in the Episcopal Church.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP]  Currey was a folk artist who painted depictions of her childhood in Indiana and every day life of living on a farm and small town. She had no formal training. Her work is story based. Currey would tell stories to visitors to the studio to accompany her paintings.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP]  Frances Currey (1925–2012; also known as Grandma Fran  and Frances Currey Brown) was an American folk art painter.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP]  Johny Joseph is married to Reena Joseph who is an active environmentalist and patron of several social causes.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP] Frances Josephy  Frances Louise Josephy (February 1900 – 1985) was a British Liberal politician, journalist and lecturer. Section::::Background. She was born in Broughty Ferry, Forfarshire. She was educated at Seymour Lodge School, Dundee, before going on to St. Andrews University and Newnham College, Cambridge. She graduated from Cambridge with a degree in Classics and English.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP] Franz Joseph I of Austria  Franz Joseph I or Francis Joseph I (, , 18 August 1830 – 21 November 1916) was Emperor of Austria, King of Hungary, and the other states of the Habsburg monarchy from 2 December 1848 until his death on 21 November 1916. In the early part of his reign, his realms and territories were referred to as the Austrian Empire, but were reconstituted as the dual monarchy of the Austro-Hungarian Empire in 1867. From 1 May 1850 to 24 August 1866, Franz Joseph was also President of the German Confederation.  In December 1848, Franz Joseph's uncle Emperor Ferdinand abdicated the throne at Olomouc, as part of Minister President Felix zu Schwarzenberg's plan to end the Revolutions of 1848 in Hungary. Franz Joseph then acceded to the throne. Largely considered to be a reactionary, he spent his early reign resisting constitutionalism in his domains. The Austrian Empire was forced to cede its influence over Tuscany and most of its claim to Lombardy–Venetia to the Kingdom of Sardinia, following the Second Italian War of Independence in 1859 and the Third Italian War of Independence in 1866. Although Franz Joseph ceded no territory to the Kingdom of Prussia after the Austrian defeat in the Austro-Prussian War, the Peace of Prague (23 August 1866) settled the German Question in favour of Prussia, which prevented the unification of Germany from occurring under the House of Habsburg.  Franz Joseph was troubled by nationalism during his entire reign. He concluded the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867, which granted greater autonomy to Hungary and created the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary. He ruled peacefully for the next 45 years, but personally suffered the tragedies of the execution of his brother Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico in 1867, the suicide of his son Crown Prince Rudolf in 1889, the assassination of his wife Empress Elisabeth ("Sisi") in 1898, and the assassination of his nephew and heir-presumptive, Archduke Franz Ferdinand, in 1914.   After the Austro-Prussian War, Austria-Hungary turned its attention to the Balkans, which was a hotspot of international tension because of conflicting interests of Austria with not only the Ottoman but also the Russian Empire. The Bosnian Crisis was a result of Franz Joseph's annexation in 1908 of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which had already been occupied by his troops since the Congress of Berlin (1878). On 28 June 1914, the assassination of his nephew Franz Ferdinand in Sarajevo resulted in Austria-Hungary's declaration of war against the Kingdom of Serbia, which was an ally of the Russian Empire. That activated a system of alliances declaring war on each other, which resulted in World War I. The Emperor died in 1916, after ruling his domains for almost 68 years. He was succeeded by his grandnephew Charles I & IV.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP] Saint Joseph  Joseph (; ) was a 1st-century Jewish man of Nazareth who, according to the canonical Gospels, was married to Mary, the mother of Jesus, and was the legal father of Jesus. The Gospels also name some brothers of Jesus who may have been: (1) the sons of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Joseph; (2) sons of Mary, the wife of Clopas and sister of Mary the mother of Jesus; or (3) sons of Joseph by a former marriage.  Joseph is venerated as Saint Joseph in the Catholic Church, Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Church and Anglicanism. His feast day is observed by some Lutherans. In Catholic traditions, Joseph is regarded as the patron saint of workers and is associated with various feast days. The month of March is dedicated to Saint Joseph. Pope Pius IX declared him to be both the patron and the protector of the Catholic Church, in addition to his patronages of the sick and of a happy death, due to the belief that he died in the presence of Jesus and Mary. Joseph has become patron of various dioceses and places. Being a patron saint of the virgins, too, he is venerated as "most chaste". A specific veneration is tributed to the most chaste and pure heart of Saint Joseph.  Several venerated images of Saint Joseph have been granted a decree of canonical coronation by a pontiff. Religious iconography often depicts him with lilies or spikenard. With the present-day growth of Mariology, the theological field of Josephology has also grown and since the 1950s centers for studying it have been formed.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP] John Tolkien (priest)  John Francis Reuel Tolkien (16 November 1917 – 22 January 2003) was an English Roman-Catholic priest and the eldest son of J. R. R. Tolkien. He served as a parish priest in Oxford, Coventry, Birmingham, and Stoke-on-Trent. He was also a chaplain at the University College of North Staffordshire and to two schools, as well as a governor of St Joseph's College. During his lifetime and after his death, there were a number of allegations of child sexual abuse against him: he was questioned by the police but never charged or convicted.
What is Frances Josephy's occupation? [SEP] Spain under Joseph Bonaparte  Napoleonic Spain was the part of Spain loyal to Joseph I during the Peninsular War (1808–1813) after the country was partially occupied by French forces. During this period, the country was considered a client state of the First French Empire.  The part of Spain which continued to resist French occupation remained loyal to Ferdinand VII and allied with Britain and Portugal to expel Napoleon's armies from Spain. The war would be much of a back and forth, till from 1812 to 1813 Allied victories at Salamanca and Vitoria meant the defeat of the Bonapartist régime and the expulsion of Napoleon's troops. The Treaty of Valençay recognized Ferdinand VII as the legitimate King of Spain.
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP]  John Williams Tobey (August 3, 1827 &ndash; February 4, 1909) was an American architect, carpenter and builder from Neenah, Wisconsin. He served as mayor of Neenah, and served one term as an independent member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Winnebago County.
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP]  Tobey was born in Hawley, Franklin County, Massachusetts on August 3, 1827, son of John and Sybil (Lathrop) Tobey. He received a public school education and went into the trades of architect, carpenter and builder. He moved to Cleveland, Ohio in 1846, and lived in Cuyahoga and Lorain counties in that state. During the American Civil War he tried to enlist in the Ohio National Guard, but was rejected by the examining surgeon. He moved to Wisconsin in 1864, settling in Neenah. He designed the plans for the Russell House in Neenah, and superintended the erection of it, as well as the Neenah High School and the Patten Mill at Appleton.
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP]  Tobey married Lucey D. Smith, also from Massachusetts, in Cuyahoga Co., Ohio, in 1853. Lucey Tobey died suddenly on May 31, 1890 at the age of 57, leaving John with two children, Isora and Mary. Isora died April 13, 1893 of "consumption". Tobey was a member of the Royal Arcanum. He died February 4, 1909, while in Cuyahoga County, Ohio; and was buried in Oak Hill Cemetery in Neenah.
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP]  Tobey held various local offices such as county supervisor and alderman, and was elected mayor of the City of Neenah in April, 1886. He described his political position as having been brought up in the "Jeffersonian and Jacksonian school of politics, and believes in law being founded on equal rights in the strictest sense, and fearlessly executed." Tobey was elected as an Independent to the second Winnebago County Assembly district (the Towns of Neenah, Menasha, Clayton, Winchester, Winneconne, and Vinland; and the Cities of Neenah and Menasha) in 1886, with 1,408 votes to 1,185 for former State Representative and State Senator William P. Rounds,
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP] Alton Tobey (1914–2005), American artist ; Charles W. Tobey (1880–1953), American politician from New Hampshire; U.S. Senator 1939–53 ; David Tobey (1898–1988), American professional basketball referee ; Edward Silas Tobey (1813–1891), American businessman, Postmaster of Boston, president of the American Missionary Association ; Franklin W. Tobey (1844–1878), New York politician ; John Williams Tobey, American politician ; Kenneth Tobey (1917–2002), American stage, film, and television actor ; Mark Tobey (1890–1976), American abstract expressionist painter ; Paul Tobey (b. 1962), Canadian jazz pianist and composer ; Ray Tobey (b. 1965), American computer and video game programmer ; William H. Tobey (1799–1878), New York politician Tobey is a surname, and may refer to:
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP] Tobey Maguire  Tobias Vincent Maguire (born June 27, 1975) is an American actor and film producer. He is best known for playing the title character from Sam Raimi's "Spider-Man" trilogy (2002–2007), a role he later reprised in "" (2021).  He started his career in supporting roles in the films "This Boy's Life" (1993), "The Ice Storm", "Deconstructing Harry" (both 1997), and "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas" (1998). His leading roles include "Pleasantville" (1998), "Ride with the Devil" (1999), "The Cider House Rules" (1999), "Wonder Boys" (2000), "Seabiscuit" (2003), "The Good German" (2006), "Brothers" (2009), "The Great Gatsby" (2013), and "Pawn Sacrifice" (2014).  He has received two Screen Actors Guild Award nominations for Outstanding Cast in a Motion Picture for "Cider House Rules" (1999) and "Seabiscut" (2003) as well as a Golden Globe Award nomination for Best Actor in a Motion Picture Drama for "Brothers" (2009). Maguire established his own production company in 2012 called Material Pictures, and co-produced "Good People" (2012), and "Pawn Sacrifice" (2014).
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP]
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP] Itzhak Perlman  Itzhak Perlman (; born August 31, 1945) is an Israeli-American violinist widely considered one of the greatest violinists in the world. Perlman has performed worldwide and throughout the United States, in venues that have included a State Dinner at the White House honoring Queen Elizabeth II, and at President Barack Obama's inauguration. He has conducted the Detroit Symphony Orchestra, the Philadelphia Orchestra, and the Westchester Philharmonic. In 2015, he was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom.<ref name="AmMstrs"/> Perlman has won 16 Grammy Awards, including a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award, and four Emmy Awards.<ref name="AmMstrs"/>
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP] List of Jewish American entertainers  This is a list of notable Jewish American entertainers. For other Jewish Americans, see Lists of Jewish Americans.
What is John Williams Tobey's occupation? [SEP] John Paesano  John Paesano (born July 2, 1977) is an American composer working primarily in film, television and video games. He is known for collaborating with director Wes Ball on the "Maze Runner" film series, as well as composing for the Marvel Television series "Daredevil" and "The Defenders." As a video game composer, he has contributed music to the acclaimed titles, "Detroit Become Human", "Marvel's Spider-Man" and "". For his work on "Miles Morales", Paesano won the BAFTA for Best music in a video game.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]  Schubert Jorge Pérez Denis (born March 29, 1954 in Montevideo), known for his sakename Jorge Traverso, is a Uruguayan journalist and newsanchor.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]   Cristian Alberto Traverso  (born 17 April 1972 in San Martín, Buenos Aires Province) is a retired Argentine footballer who played for a number of clubs both in Argentina and Latin America, including Argentinos Juniors, Boca Juniors and Puebla. Nicknamed "Tigre" Traverso was named the Chilean Footballer of the Year in 1995 while playing for Universidad de Chile, though despite this honour he never played for his country.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]  Christian Traverso (born August 19, 1971 in Buenos Aires, Argentina) is a former Argentine footballer who played for clubs of Argentina and Chile.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]  Traverso moved to Paraguay as a youth player and began his professional career with Rubio Ñú before moving to Nacional in the Primera División de Paraguay. He played on loan for Barcelona in Serie A de Ecuador. He also had a brief spell with Dundee in the Scottish Premier League. Traverso's career ended following a serious injury sustained in an automobile crash in Asunción in May 2004. His wife was also injured in the accident.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]  Juan María El Flaco Traverso (born 28 December 1950 in Ramallo, Buenos Aires Province ), is a retired racing driver from Argentina. He is a multiple champion in the most important championships in Argentina. He also raced in European Formula Two in 1979.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP] Jorge Ubaldo Traverso  Jorge Traverso (born 18 October 1947) is an Argentine former footballer.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP] Subrayado  Subrayado is the news program of the Uruguayan Channel 10. It airs from Monday to Friday at three different times, in addition to a broadcast on Sundays and holidays. It is presented by Blanca Rodríguez.  The first broadcast of "Subrayado" was in 1971 under the leadership of the journalist Omar Defeo, being its director until 1989. It is currently the most watched newscast in Uruguay. It has also been accoladed with the "Iris Award" for best newscast on several occasions.
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP]
What is Jorge Traverso's occupation? [SEP] Juan Grompone  Juan Arturo Grompone Carbonell (Montevideo, 1939) is a Uruguayan engineer and writer.  He is a member of the National Academy of Economics and also of the Academia Nacional de Letras (english: "National Academy of Letters").<ref name="shivav"/>
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]  Paolo Pellizzari (born 1956), is an Italian photographer living in Belgium. He specialises in crowds, human landscapes, he is a flaneur and observer of our world. He teaches author photography at La Cambre School of Art in Brussels and is a guest teacher at the ICP in New York.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]  Paolo Pellizzari was born on February 7, 1956. His photographic work finds its roots in the German School of photography. His panoramic pictures featuring crowds and human landscapes makes his work distinctive among others. He studied architecture at Université catholique de Louvain and Business at INSEAD (Fontainebleau). His work is shown in Museums and Art Galleries. Before being a photographer, starting 1981, Paolo Pellizzari worked in the business world: From 1981 to 1984, Pellizzari worked as a consultant at the Boston Consulting Group in France. From 1984 to 1989 Paolo was the founder and general manager of the Kiel Corporation in New Hampshire.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]  he designed hand-held computers with a touchscreen and a built-in modem. Ultimately, the company was sold to the Japanese company Murata. From 1989 to 1992, Pellizzari worked as an executive director of Neuhaus-Mondose in Belgium, overseeing the manufacturing of luxury chocolates. From 1992 to 1999, Pellizzari was the owner of Inducolor SA in Belgium and worked with the Venture Capital Arm of Li & Fung. After eight years of management, he sold Inducolor SA and quit the Business world. Starting in 1999 he dedicated all his time to photography.and became an independent photographer. Italian born he lives in Belgium. His first exhibition was
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]  of work called The Broad Way and exhibited at the Italian Pavilion at the World Expo in Shanghai. In 2011 after some time spend in Puerta del Sol in Madrid with the Indignados, he sponsored an initiative to create a dialogue web site called www.eskutcha.com. In 2013 his work was shown in New York at Anastasia Photo Gallery. Paolo Pellizzari teaches author photography at the International Center of Photography (ICP) in New York and at l'Ecole Nationale d'Art de Lacambre in Brussels Belgium. His work for the Press is distributed by Agence Vu in Paris and Contact Press Images in New York.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]  Brussels with Moving Art. He was awarded first prize for Grand Prix d’auteur Couleur de France. Followed an exhibition in Paris entitled Around the World and other group exhibitions on the same theme. In 2000 he published a book entitled La France du Tour and in 2005 "The Tours of the world". This book was awarded Best Sport Book of the year 2006. In 2001, he had a solo exhibition at the Museum of modern art in Hasselt and entered into an agreement to cover the Tour de France, in the newspaper, Libération. In 2002, Paolo had two group exhibitions with the
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP]
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP] Roberto Baggio  Roberto Baggio (; born 18 February 1967) is an Italian former professional footballer who mainly played as a second striker, or as an attacking midfielder, although he was capable of playing in several offensive positions. He is the former president of the technical sector of the Italian Football Federation. A technically gifted creative playmaker and set piece specialist, renowned for his curling free-kicks, dribbling skills, and goalscoring, Baggio is widely regarded as one of the greatest players of all time. In 1999, he came fourth in the FIFA Player of the Century internet poll, and was chosen on the FIFA World Cup Dream Team in 2002. In 1993, he was named FIFA World Player of the Year and won the Ballon d'Or. In 2004, he was named by Pelé in the FIFA 100, a list of the world's greatest living players.  Baggio played for Italy in 56 matches, scoring 27 goals, and is the joint fourth-highest goalscorer for his national team, alongside Alessandro Del Piero. He starred in the Italian team that finished third in the 1990 FIFA World Cup, scoring twice. At the 1994 World Cup, he led Italy to the final, scoring five goals, received the World Cup Silver Ball and was named in the World Cup All-Star Team. Although he was the star performer for Italy at the tournament, he missed the decisive penalty in the shootout of the final against Brazil.  In 2002, Baggio became the first Italian player in over 50 years to score more than 300 career goals; he is the fifth-highest scoring Italian in all competitions with 318 goals. In 2004, during the final season of his career, Baggio became the first player in over 30 years to score 200 goals in Serie A, and is the seventh-highest goalscorer of all time in Serie A, with 205 goals. In 1990, he moved from Fiorentina to Juventus for a world record transfer fee. Baggio won two Serie A titles, a Coppa Italia, and a UEFA Cup, playing for seven different Italian clubs during his career (Vicenza, Fiorentina, Juventus, AC Milan, Bologna, Inter Milan, and Brescia).  Baggio is known as "" ("The Divine Ponytail"), for the hairstyle he wore for most of his career, for his talent, and for his Buddhist beliefs. In 2002, Baggio was nominated Goodwill Ambassador of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. In 2003, he was the inaugural winner of the Golden Foot award. In recognition of his human rights activism, he received the Man of Peace award from the Nobel Peace Prize Laureates in 2010. In 2011, he was the first footballer to be inducted into the Italian Football Hall of Fame. Throughout his career, including friendlies, Baggio scored 425 goals.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP] Giorgio Chiellini  Giorgio Chiellini (; born 14 August 1984) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for Major League Soccer club Los Angeles FC. Considered one of the best defenders of his generation, Chiellini is known for his strength, aggressiveness and man-marking, as well as his ability to play in either a three or four-man defence. He has also played as a left-back earlier in his career.  At club level, Chiellini began his career with Livorno in 2000, also later playing for Fiorentina, before moving to Juventus in 2005. With Juventus, he has won a record-nine consecutive Serie A titles from 2012 to 2020, as well as five Coppa Italia titles and five Supercoppa Italiana titles, having also played two UEFA Champions League finals in 2015 and 2017. Chiellini has been named in the Serie A Team of the Year five times: in 2012–13, 2014–15, 2015–16, 2017–18 and 2018–19 and has been awarded the Serie A Defender of the Year also three times: in 2008, 2009 and 2010.  Having made his international debut for Italy in 2004, Chiellini was selected in the nation's squads for the 2004 Summer Olympics, winning a bronze medal, as well as for four UEFA European Championships, two FIFA World Cups and two FIFA Confederations Cups, helping the "Azzurri" to win UEFA Euro 2020, reach the final of UEFA Euro 2012, and achieve a third-place finish at the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup. He retired from international football in 2022 with 117 caps, making him Italy's joint fifth-highest appearance holder.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP] Diego Maradona  Diego Armando Maradona (; 30 October 196025 November 2020) was an Argentine professional football player and manager. Widely regarded as one of the greatest players in the history of the sport, he was one of the two joint winners of the FIFA Player of the 20th Century award. Maradona's vision, passing, ball control, and dribbling skills were combined with his small stature, which gave him a low centre of gravity allowing him to manoeuvre better than most other players. His presence and leadership on the field had a great effect on his team's general performance, while he would often be singled out by the opposition. In addition to his creative abilities, he possessed an eye for goal and was known to be a free kick specialist. A precocious talent, Maradona was given the nickname "El Pibe de Oro" ("The Golden Boy"), a name that stuck with him throughout his career. He also had a troubled off-field life and was banned in both 1991 and 1994 for abusing drugs.  An advanced playmaker who operated in the classic number 10 position, Maradona was the first player to set the world record transfer fee twice: in 1982 when he transferred to Barcelona for £5 million, and in 1984 when he moved to Napoli for a fee of £6.9 million. He played for Argentinos Juniors, Boca Juniors, Barcelona, Napoli, Sevilla, and Newell's Old Boys during his club career, and is most famous for his time at Napoli where he won numerous accolades.  In his international career with Argentina, he earned 91 caps and scored 34 goals. Maradona played in four FIFA World Cups, including the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, where he captained Argentina and led them to victory over West Germany in the final, and won the Golden Ball as the tournament's best player. In the 1986 World Cup quarter final, he scored both goals in a 2–1 victory over England that entered football history for two different reasons. The first goal was an unpenalized handling foul known as the "Hand of God", while the second goal followed a dribble past five England players, voted "Goal of the Century" by FIFA.com voters in 2002.  Maradona became the coach of Argentina's national football team in November 2008. He was in charge of the team at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa before leaving at the end of the tournament. He then coached Dubai-based club Al Wasl in the UAE Pro-League for the 2011–12 season. In 2017, Maradona became the coach of Fujairah before leaving at the end of the season. In May 2018, Maradona was announced as the new chairman of Belarusian club Dynamo Brest. He arrived in Brest and was presented by the club to start his duties in July. From September 2018 to June 2019, Maradona was coach of Mexican club Dorados. He was the coach of Argentine Primera División club Gimnasia de La Plata from September 2019 until his death in November 2020.
What is Paolo Pellizzari's occupation? [SEP] Hans T. Bakker  Hans T. Bakker (born 1948) is a cultural historian and Indologist, who has served as the Professor of the History of Hinduism and Jan Gonda Chair at the University of Groningen. He currently works in the British Museum as a researcher in project "Beyond Boundaries: Religion, Region, Language and the State".
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]  Petr Mlsna (born 13 November 1978) is a Czech politician, who served as Head of the Government Legislative Council and Minister without Portfolio of the Czech Republic from December 2012 to July 2013. He was appointed to Petr Nečas' Cabinet as an independent on 12 December 2012.
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]  He grew up in South Moravia in Boršice, near Buchlov Castle. From 1965 to 1969 he studied at the Secondary Technical School in Zlin leather. Upon graduation he worked at a shoe factory, Svit, as a production foreman. From 1970 to 1979 he studied at the Faculty of Technology VUT Brno. In 1979, he began working as a lecturer at the Faculty of Technology. He was Dean of the Faculty of Technology at Tomas Bata University in Zlin from 2007 to 2011. On June 15, 2007, he was elected to the position by the Academic Senate of FT and on July 1, 2007 he was appointed by
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]  Kolář graduated from Charles University in Prague in 1986 with majors in information technology, library science and ethnography. His interests are international politics, sport, literature, history, fine arts. Kolář is married and has two children.
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]  Petr Nárožný (born 14 April 1938 in Prague ) is a Czech actor and television presenter. Petr Nárožný attended Czech Technical University in Prague (civil engineering, graduate in 1968). He began his career as a presenter of the band Rangers in 1968. From 1973, he was engaged as an actor in the Semafor Theatre in Prague, together with Luděk Sobota and Miloslav Šimek. As of 2011, he is a member of The Drama Club.
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]  Putna was born in Písek, Czech Republic. Between 1986 and 1991 he studied Philology at the Charles University in Prague. Since 1992 he has worked at the Charles University. He also studied Theology at the University of South Bohemia in České Budějovice. He was visiting scholar at the University of Regensburg. He worked as a director of Vaclav Havel Presidential Library during the years 2009–2011. He is a regular contributor to the daily paper Lidové noviny, replacing Ludvík Vaculík as a core column author after Vaculík's death in 2015.
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP] Petr Mlsna  Petr Mlsna (born 13 November 1978) is a Czech politician, who served as Chairman of the Government Legislative Council and Minister without Portfolio of the Czech Republic from December 2012 to July 2013. He was appointed to Petr Nečas' Cabinet as an independent on 12 December 2012.
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP]
What is Petr Mlsna's occupation? [SEP] Czech Republic  The Czech Republic, or simply Czechia, is a landlocked country in Central Europe. Historically known as Bohemia, it is bordered by Austria to the south, Germany to the west, Poland to the northeast, and Slovakia to the southeast. The Czech Republic has a hilly landscape that covers an area of with a mostly temperate continental and oceanic climate. The capital and largest city is Prague; other major cities and urban areas include Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň and Liberec.  The Duchy of Bohemia was founded in the late 9th century under Great Moravia. It was formally recognized as an Imperial State of the Holy Roman Empire in 1002 and became a kingdom in 1198. Following the Battle of Mohács in 1526, the whole Crown of Bohemia was gradually integrated into the Habsburg monarchy. The Protestant Bohemian Revolt led to the Thirty Years' War. After the Battle of White Mountain, the Habsburgs consolidated their rule. With the dissolution of the Holy Empire in 1806, the Crown lands became part of the Austrian Empire.  In the 19th century, the Czech lands became more industrialized, and in 1918 most of it became part of the First Czechoslovak Republic following the collapse of Austria-Hungary after World War I. Czechoslovakia was the only country in Central and Eastern Europe to remain a parliamentary democracy during the entirety of the interwar period. After the Munich Agreement in 1938, Nazi Germany systematically took control over the Czech lands. Czechoslovakia was restored in 1945 and became an Eastern Bloc communist state following a coup d'état in 1948. Attempts to liberalize the government and economy were suppressed by a Soviet-led invasion of the country during the Prague Spring in 1968. In November 1989, the Velvet Revolution ended communist rule in the country, and on 1 January 1993, Czechoslovakia was dissolved, with its constituent states becoming the independent states of the Czech Republic and Slovakia.  The Czech Republic is a unitary parliamentary republic and developed country with an advanced, high-income social market economy. It is a welfare state with a European social model, universal health care and free-tuition university education. It ranks 16th in the UN inequality-adjusted human development, 32nd in the Human Development Index and 24th in the World Bank Human Capital Index. It ranks as the 8th safest and most peaceful country and 29th in democratic governance. The Czech Republic is a member of the United Nations, NATO, the European Union, the OECD, the OSCE, and the Council of Europe.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]  Lorena Corona Valdés (born 16 December 1972) is a Mexican politician from the Ecologist Green Party of Mexico. She serves as a federal deputy to the LXIII Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Durango and the first electoral region.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]  Corona received her law degree from the Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México (ITAM) in 1997 and worked primarily as a communications lawyer. Between 2001 and 2006, she was the legal director of Televisa Radio (Sistema Radiópolis, S.A. de C.V.); during this time, she obtained graduate degrees in intellectual property law and in operating broadcasting companies, and she was also named by Vicente Fox to serve on the Federal Telecommunications Commission. After she left Televisa Radio, she worked at Ecija Abogados from 2006 to 2007 and at Legal Media Advisers from 2007 to 2008. From 2009 to 2012, Corona spent her first term in the Chamber of Deputies for the LXI Legislature, where she sat on the Public Education and Educational Services Commission as well as those dealing with Government and National Defense. She returned to the chamber in 2015, again as a proportional representation deputy; she sits on the Economy, Constitutional Points, and Culture and Film Commissions.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]  Julia Emilia Valdés Borrero (born February 26, 1952 in Santiago de Cuba, Cuba) is a Cuban artist specializing in painting, drawing, engraving, and illustration. From 1967 to 1972, she studied in the Escuela Nacional de Arte (ENA), in Havana, Cuba. Between 1984 and 1989 she studied art history at the Universidad de Oriente in Santiago de Cuba.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]  Lorena Aida Benítes Valverde (born July 24, 1982 in Esmeraldas) is an Ecuadorian taekwondo practitioner. She represented Ecuador at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she competed and played for the women's heavyweight category (+67 kg), an event which was later dominated by Mexico's María Espinoza. She was eliminated in the first preliminary round of the competition, after being defeated by Australia's Carmen Marton, who only scored two points in the match.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]  Valdés studied at the Catholic University of Chile. She taught literature at that University (1965–1975) and, after 25 years working for the United Nations, went back to postgraduate teaching on arts at the University of Chile for some years after 2002. She writes on visual arts and literature. Two collections of her essays were published in book form, in 1996 and 2006. With Pedro Lastra she co-edited the posthumous book of Enrique Lihn, "Diario de muerte", in 1989. She was named a Fellow of the Chilean Academy of Language in 1993. In 2010 she became the first woman to serve as deputy director of the Academy.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP]
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP] Ignacio Coronel Villarreal  Ignacio "Nacho" Coronel Villarreal (1 February 1954 – 29 July 2010) was a Mexican suspected drug lord and a founding member of the Sinaloa Cartel, a criminal group based in Sinaloa. He worked alongside Joaquín "El Chapo" Guzmán, Mexico's most-wanted drug lord. His stronghold was Jalisco.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP] Maribel Guardia  Maribel Guardia (; born Maribel Del Rocío Fernández García on May 29, 1959, in San José, Costa Rica) is a Costa Rican-Mexican actress, model, singer and TV hostess. She was winner of Miss Costa Rica 1978 and contestant in Miss Universe 1978.
What is Lorena Corona Valdés's occupation? [SEP] List of Mexicans  This article contains a list of well-known Mexicans in science, publication, arts, politics and sports.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]  Sir Thomas Clarges (c. 1780-17 February 1834) was the son of Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet and Louisa Skrine. He was a pupil at Eton College, matriculated at Christ Church, Oxford in 1799, and graduated from Oxford University in 1802. He succeeded as the 4th Baronet Clarges, of St. Martin's in the Fields in the County of Middlesex, on 23 December 1782. From 1803 until his death, he was Constable of Durham Castle in the County Palatine. In addition to his landed estates (including Bitchfield and Norton Disney in Lincolnshire, and Sutton-on-Derwent, near York), he also owned a half-share in the Theatre Royal, Brighton, which he had purchased in 1807. He died on 17 February 1834 at Brighton, unmarried. On his death, his baronetcy became extinct. His will was proven (by probate) in March 1834.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]  Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet (1751–1782) was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1780 to 1782. Clarges was the son of Thomas Clarges of Aston, Hertfordshire and his wife Anne Shute of John Shute, 1st Viscount Barrington and was born on 4 October 1751. He succeeded his grandfather Sir Thomas Clarges, 2nd Baronet in the baronetcy on 19 February 1759. He was educated Eton College in 1765 and matriculated at Christ Church, Oxford in 1770. He married Louisa Skrine, daughter of William Skrine on 20 October 1777. Clarges was elected Member of Parliament for Lincoln at the 1780 general election and held the seat until his death on 23 December 1782.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]  Sir Thomas Clarges, 2nd Baronet (25 July 1688 – 19 February 1759), of Aston, near Stevenage, Hertfordshire, was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons from 1713 to 1715. Clarges was the eldest surviving son of Sir Walter Clarges, 1st Baronet, whom he succeeded circa 31 March 1706 and was educated at St Paul's School. Clarges was a Member of Parliament for Lostwithiel from 1713 to 1715. Clarges was appointed a Gentleman of the privy chamber by 1734 until his death. He married twice; firstly  Katherine, the daughter and coheiress of John Berkeley, 4th Viscount Fitzhardinge and secondly Frances, with whom he had a son Thomas, who predeased him. He was succeeded by his grandson Thomas.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]  Sir Thomas Clarges (c 1618 &ndash; 4 October 1695) was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons at various times between 1656 and 1695. He played an important part in bringing about the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]  Robert Clarges (c. 1693 - before 1727) was an English Tory MP. Clarges was the third son of Sir Walter Clarges, 1st Baronet, the first son of his marriage to Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Thomas Gould, Sheriff of London, widow of Sir Robert Wymondsell. He was educated at St Paul's School, London and Trinity College, Cambridge. His father died in 1706 whilst Clarges was still a minor and his inheritance of Stoke Poges Rectory Manor was held in trust for him until he became of age. He was elected MP for Reading from 1713 to 30 May 1716. Clarges was described as a Tory who might often vote Whig. He voted against the Septennial Act 1716. His election was declared void on 30 May 1716. He died unmarried apparently before April 1727 (he was not mentioned in his mother's will of that date). His estate was admininistered by his mother and elder brother. The Rectory Manor passed to his brother George.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP] Sir Walter Clarges, 1st Baronet  Sir Walter Clarges, 1st Baronet (4 July 1653 – March 1705/6) was an English Tory politician who served four separate terms in Parliament. An early ally of William of Orange, he inherited large holdings of land but no great ability from his father, Sir Thomas Clarges, and largely used his Parliamentary seat to advance his own business and financial interests.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP] Thomas Clarges  Sir Thomas Clarges (c 1618 – 4 October 1695) was an English politician who sat in the House of Commons at various times between 1656 and 1695. He played an important part in bringing about the Restoration of the Monarchy in 1660.
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]
What is Sir Thomas Clarges, 3rd Baronet's occupation? [SEP]
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]  Donald Robert Macgregor (1824 – 9 December 1889) was a Scottish politician. From 1874 to 1878 he was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the Leith Burghs constituency, near Edinburgh.
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]  Madras College, St Andrews from 1974 until 1999, when he retired from full-time teaching. Until 2006 he taught French and German part-time in the Business School of the University of Abertay Dundee and was also a German-language tour guide. He published a book of poetry, Stars and Spikes (2004, Nutwood Press), following in the footsteps of his father Forbes, who was a more prolific author and published among many other books with a Scottish theme, including the best-selling Greyfriars Bobby – the True Story at Last. More recently Donald was involved in research for John Bryant's books 3:59.4 (2004 – Random House) and The Marathon Makers (2008 – John Blake Publishing) and in photo caption translations for German books about
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]  Donald Forbes Macgregor (23 July 1939 – 3 June 2020) was a Scottish long-distance runner, teacher and politician. He competed in the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, representing Great Britain in the men's marathon event, in which he finished in seventh position in 2:16:34. He also competed for Scotland at the Commonwealth Games in 1970 in Edinburgh and 1974 in Christchurch, New Zealand. He had a personal best time of 2:14:15.4. Macgregor was born in Edinburgh, and studied at the University of St Andrews. He was chairman of the Royal Burgh of St Andrews Community Council until 2007, and served as a Liberal Democrat councillor on North East Fife District Council from 1988 to 1996. He was principal teacher of German
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]  Donald MacGregor (1839 – 20 July 1911) was a Scottish Liberal Party politician. From 1892 to 1895 he was a Member of Parliament (MP) for the Inverness-shire constituency. He is buried in London at St Mary Magdalen Roman Catholic Church Mortlake.
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]  Douglas Abbott Macgregor (born January 4, 1953, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is a U.S. Army Colonel (retired), government official, author, consultant, and television commentator. On July 27, 2020, the White House announced that President Donald Trump intended to nominate Macgregor to serve as the United States Ambassador to Germany. On November 11, 2020, a Pentagon spokesperson announced that Macgregor had been hired to serve as Senior Advisor to the Acting Secretary of Defense.
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP] Rob Roy MacGregor  Robert Roy MacGregor (; 7 March 1671 – 28 December 1734) was a Scottish outlaw, who later became a folk hero.
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP] Douglas Macgregor  Douglas Abbott Macgregor (born January 4, 1953) is a retired U.S. Army colonel and government official, and an author, consultant, and television commentator. He played a significant role on the battlefield in the 1990-91 Gulf War and the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. His 1997 book "Breaking the Phalanx" established him as an influential if unconventional theorist of military strategy. His thinking contributed to the US strategy in its 2003 invasion of Iraq.   After leaving the military in 2004, he became more politically active. In 2020, President Donald Trump proposed Macgregor as ambassador to Germany, but the Senate blocked the nomination. On November 11, 2020, a Pentagon spokesperson announced that Macgregor had been hired to serve as Senior Advisor to the Acting Secretary of Defense, a post he held for less than three months. Trump also appointed him to the board of West Point Academy, his alma mater. These appointments proved controversial due to his history of racist comments. He regularly contributes to Fox News, where his opinions on Russia have caused controversy.
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP] Robert Henry McGregor  Robert Henry McGregor, (March 1, 1886 – October 25, 1965) was a long-time Canadian parliamentarian.  MacGregor was a contractor and horticulturalist by profession. He grew up in the Todmorden area of suburban Toronto, and was once an Elementary School student of a teacher named William Thomas Diefenbaker.  His initial experience in politics began in 1912 when he was appointed a school trustee for York Township. Following the formation of North York Township, he eventually became the first reeve of East York. In 1922, R.H. McGregor Elementary School, located in the eventual centre of East York, was erected and named in his honour.  He was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada in the 1926 federal election and sat continuously in the chamber for thirty-six years until his defeat in the 1962 federal election when he was 79 years old.  Originally elected as the Conservative Member of Parliament for York South, he switched to the new Toronto riding of York East when it was created for the 1935 federal election. He won election a total of eight consecutive times  Despite his long tenure in the House of Commons he spoke rarely and was nicknamed "Silent Bob" McGregor. His only recorded Parliamentary speech occurred when being feted in the House on his 74th birthday. On that occasion he remarked "If a good many hon. Members made fewer speeches in the House, they would be here longer."<ref name=GMObit /><ref name = "milliken" />  Though never a member of Cabinet, he was elevated to the Queen's Privy Council for Canada on December 21, 1960 on Diefenbaker's recommendation in recognition of McGregor's long tenure of service.<ref>Silent Dean of Commons Takes Oath as Privy Council Member The Globe and Mail (1936-2016); Toronto, Ont. [Toronto, Ont]22 Dec 1960: 3</ref>
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP]
What is Donald Robert Macgregor's occupation? [SEP] Donald Pleasence  Donald Henry Pleasence (; 5 October 1919 – 2 February 1995) was an English actor. He began his career on stage in the West End before transitioning into a screen career, where he played numerous supporting and character roles including RAF Flight Lieutenant Colin Blythe in "The Great Escape" (1963), the villain Ernst Stavro Blofeld in the James Bond film "You Only Live Twice" (1967), SEN 5241 in "THX 1138" (1971), and the deranged Clarence "Doc" Tydon in "Wake in Fright" (1971).  Pleasence starred as psychiatrist Dr. Samuel Loomis in "Halloween" (1978) and four of its sequels, a role for which he was nominated for a Saturn Award for Best Actor. The series' popularity and critical success led to a resurgent career for Pleasence, who appeared in numerous American and European-produced horror and thriller films. He collaborated with "Halloween" director John Carpenter twice more, as the President of the United States in "Escape from New York" (1981), and as the Priest in "Prince of Darkness" (1987).
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]  Clement Baker (by 1470 – 1516), of New Romney, Kent, was an English politician. He was a Member of Parliament (MP) for New Romney in 1512 and 1515, and was chamberlain, commissioner of subsidy, and jurat of the town. He was also bailiff to Yarmouth.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]  Joseph Allen Baker (10 April 1852 – 3 July 1918) was a Canadian-born British engineer, specialising in machinery for the confectionery and bakery industries and later in transportation systems, who was also a Liberal Party politician in London.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]  Thomas Baker (9 October 1809 – 10 August 1864) was a Midlands landscape painter and watercolourist often known as "Baker of Leamington" or "Landscape Baker". Born in Harborne, Birmingham, Baker was a student of Vincent Barber (1788–1838) at the Barber family's Charles Street Academy in Birmingham. Exhibiting publicly with the Birmingham Society of Artists from 1827 onwards, he painted landscapes throughout Warwickshire, the Midlands and the Welsh border regions and occasionally producing depictions of the Lake District, Scotland and Ireland. More often than not Baker's landscapes include cattle, although sheep and human figures are also fairly common in his works. Baker kept comprehensive
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]  Charles Baker (5 October 1743—19 February 1835) was born in Virginia, and was a surveyor in Canada as his first recorded profession. Baker was in Nova Scotia in 1765 as a deputy surveyor in the Chignecto region. After the American Revolution, he was active in the surveys which settled loyalists. In 1788 he settled in Amherst Township on an 800 acre land grant he had received. There he became a justice of the peace and a clerk of the courts and by 1802 was a judge. History records him as being a good magistrate and public servant. Through his various activities, he contributed significantly to the settlement and development of the areas where he lived.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]  Bobby Baker (born 1950, Kent) is a multi-disciplinary artist and activist working across performance, drawing and multi-media. Baker is the artistic director of the arts organisation Daily Life Ltd. A hallmark of Baker's work is food being used as an artistic medium. As John Daniel writes, 'Food - shopping for it, cooking it, serving it, consuming it - is a consistent feature in Baker's work, which focuses on the seemingly mundane, everyday details of life' (2007:246) Drawing from her own personal and family experiences, her work explores the relationship between art and lived experience and addresses the splitting of women's domestic and professional lives. Claire MacDonald points out how her artistic trajectory - moving from early food sculptures to later performances and installations - reflects the changing agenda of women's movement.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP] Baker (surname)  Baker is a common surname of Old English (Anglo-Saxon) origin and Scotland where Gaelic was anglicized. From England the surname has spread to neighbouring countries such as Wales, Scotland and Ireland, and also to the English speaking areas of the Americas and Oceania where it is also common. The gaelic form of Baker in Scotland and Ireland is "Mac a' Bhacstair". Some people with the surname have used DNA to trace their origins to Celtic countries and specifically to the Baxter sept of the Clan MacMillan in Scotland. It is an occupational name, which originated before the 8th century CE, from the name of the trade, baker. From the Middle English "bakere" and Old English "bæcere", a derivation of "bacan", meaning "to dry by heat". The bearer of this name may not only have been a baker of bread. The name was also used for others involved with baking in some way, including the owner of a communal oven in humbler communities. The female form of the name is "Baxter", which is seen more in Scotland. The German form of the name is "Bäcker".  The name, Baker, appeared in many references, and from time to time, the surname was spelt "Baker", "Bakere" and these changes in spelling frequently occurred within the family name. Scribes and church officials spelt the name as it sounded, and frequently the spelling changed even during the person's own lifetime. The family name Baker entered Britain with the Anglo-Saxons, who traditionally are said to have settled Britain from the 5th century CE, although Germanic communities were already well established in Britain long before this time. Notable people with the surname include:
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP] Annie Baker  Annie Baker (born April 1981)<ref name=heller /> is an American playwright and teacher who won the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for her play "The Flick." Among her works are the Shirley, Vermont plays, which take place in the fictional town of Shirley: "Circle Mirror Transformation", "Nocturama", "Body Awareness", and "The Aliens." She was named a MacArthur Fellow in 2017.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP] Josephine Baker  Josephine Baker (born Freda Josephine McDonald; naturalised French Joséphine Baker; 3 June 1906 – 12 April 1975) was an American-born French dancer, singer and actress. Her career was centered primarily in Europe, mostly in her adopted France. She was the first black woman to star in a major motion picture, the 1927 silent film "Siren of the Tropics", directed by and .  During her early career, Baker was among the most celebrated performers to headline the revues of the in Paris. Her performance in the revue in 1927 caused a sensation in the city. Her costume, consisting of only a short skirt of artificial bananas and a beaded necklace, became an iconic image and a symbol both of the Jazz Age and the Roaring Twenties.  Baker was celebrated by artists and intellectuals of the era, who variously dubbed her the "Black Venus", the "Black Pearl", the "Bronze Venus", and the "Creole Goddess". Born in St. Louis, Missouri, she renounced her U.S. citizenship and became a French national after her marriage to French industrialist Jean Lion in 1937. She raised her children in France.  She aided the French Resistance during World War II. Baker sang: "I have two loves, my country and Paris."  Baker refused to perform for segregated audiences in the United States and is noted for her contributions to the civil rights movement. In 1968, she was offered unofficial leadership in the movement in the United States by Coretta Scott King, following Martin Luther King Jr.'s assassination. After thinking it over, Baker declined the offer out of concern for the welfare of her children.  On 30 November 2021, she was interred in the Panthéon in Paris, the first black woman to receive one of the highest honors in France. As her resting place remains in Monaco Cemetery, a cenotaph was installed in vault 13 of the crypt in the Panthéon.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP] Special Operations Executive  The Special Operations Executive (SOE) was a secret British World War II organisation. It was officially formed on 22 July 1940 under Minister of Economic Warfare Hugh Dalton, from the amalgamation of three existing secret organisations. Its purpose was to conduct espionage, sabotage and reconnaissance in occupied Europe (and later, also in occupied Southeast Asia) against the Axis powers, and to aid local resistance movements.  Few people were aware of SOE's existence. Those who were part of it or liaised with it were sometimes referred to as the "Baker Street Irregulars", after the location of its London headquarters. It was also known as "Churchill's Secret Army" or the "Ministry of Ungentlemanly Warfare". Its various branches, and sometimes the organisation as a whole, were concealed for security purposes behind names such as the "Joint Technical Board" or the "Inter-Service Research Bureau", or fictitious branches of the Air Ministry, Admiralty or War Office.  SOE operated in all territories occupied or attacked by the Axis forces, except where demarcation lines were agreed upon with Britain's principal Allies (the United States and the Soviet Union). It also made use of neutral territory on occasion or made plans and preparations in case neutral countries were attacked by the Axis. The organisation directly employed or controlled more than 13,000 people, about 3,200 of whom were women.  After the war, the organisation was officially dissolved on 15 January 1946. The official memorial to all those who served in the SOE during the Second World War was unveiled on 13 February 1996 on the wall of the west cloister of Westminster Abbey by Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. A further memorial to SOE's agents was unveiled in October 2009 on the Albert Embankment in London. The Valençay SOE Memorial honours 104 SOE agents who lost their lives while working in France. The Tempsford Memorial was unveiled on 3 December 2013 by Charles, Prince of Wales, in Church End, Tempsford in Bedfordshire, close to the site of former RAF Tempsford.
What is Clement Baker's occupation? [SEP]
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]  Belarmino Mário Chipongue (born 22 September 1974 in Lubango) is a former Angolan basketball player. Chipongue, a forward, was part of the Angola national basketball team at the 2000 Summer Olympics and the 2002 FIBA World Championship.
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]  Balotelli was born Mario Barwuah in Palermo, Sicily to Ghanaian immigrants. The family moved to Bagnolo Mella in the province of Brescia, Lombardy, when he was two. In 1993, when he was three, he was placed in foster care to the Balotelli family when his own family was unable to pay for his health care needs. His foster parents are Silvia, the Jewish daughter of Holocaust survivors, and Francesco Balotelli. They lived in the town of Concesio, Brescia, in northern Italy. At first, he stayed with the Balotelli family during the weekdays and returned to his biological parents on weekends. He later was permanently fostered by
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]  Schilling was born on March 9, 1969 in Santiago, to his parents Mario Fernando Schilling Besoaín and María Bernardita Fuenzalida Rioseco. He studied at the Verbo Divino school in Santiago and at the Sagrados Corazones, Padres Franceses and Saint Paul's School, both in Viña del Mar. Later, he studied Journalism at the University of Las Condes (now Universidad del Desarrollo de Santiago) and Law at the Major University. In regards to his legal education, he studied at the Adolfo Ibáñez University a master's degree in Tributary Management. He graduated from the University of Chile with a master's degree in Philosophy. He submitted
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]  Taracena was born on 6 May 1957 in Guatemala City. He grew up in an economically well-off family. Both his father and grandfathers were involved in politics. His father was a founding member of the National Liberation Movement, as an opponent of Miguel Ydígoras Fuentes, he was exiled twice. Mario Taracena followed a part of his education at the and later obtained a degree at the Faculty of Economics of the Rafael Landívar University.
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]  Mario A. Murillo is a U.S.-born journalist, author, and teacher from New York City. He has worked in commercial, public, and community radio since 1986. His experience includes previously hosting and producing Wakeup Call on WBAI, a Pacifica-owned station in New York. Professor of Communication and Latin American Studies at Hofstra University, Murillo is also the author of Colombia and the United States: War, Unrest, and Destabilization and Islands of Resistance: Puerto Rico, Vieques and U.S. Policy. His father was born in Subachoque, Cundinamarca, outside of Bogotá, Colombia, and his mother was from Moca, Puerto Rico. Mario was born in New York City. He is Professor of Communication and Latin
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP]
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP] To Cry") under the label Palma Records. Iriarte reportedly collaborated with Chilean New Wave artist Luis Dimas during the album production. Mario Iriarte Mario Antonio Iriarte Donoso (born August 8, 1955) is a Chilean musician, singer, songwriter and teacher, originary from Santa Cruz. Iriarte completed his Musical Arts studies in the University of Chile in 1986. He has since worked since as a teacher in Liceo Santa Cruz. In 2004 and 2008, he was part of the jury of the National Competition of Unpublished Cueca Compositions in Santa Cruz (). Iriarte is also a member of the Sociedad Chilena del
In what city was Belarmino Mario Chipongue born? [SEP] Mario Bencomo Mario Bencomo b.1953, Cuba, is an artist. As an unaccompanied minor he was sent by his parents to live in Spain. At the age of 14, he left Madrid for the U.S., arriving by himself in New York City in 1968. He often returns to Europe, and for many years now for regular stays in Montreal, Canada. In 1996 he returns to Cuba for the first time, three decades after he left, visiting Cuba periodically since then. An American citizen, he is based in Miami. His work is elegiac in concept; informed by myth, the ambiguity of form
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]  Born in Walton County, Hammock served in the United States Army during the Mexican–American War, where he served with another future mayor, Captain Allison Nelson. After the war, he moved to Oglethorpe County, Georgia where he married, but soon after moved to Atlanta. When the American Civil War began, he entered the Confederate States Army as a commissioned officer. After the war, he returned to Atlanta and began working as a merchant with the firm Langston, Crane & Hammock and later he worked the real estate trade with a prominent office on Whitehall St at Five Points. During his first reconstruction-era term as mayor he inaugurated the city's waterworks system and his second term was the first two-year term after Atlanta adopted a new city charter. He served as president of the city water commission from the mid-1880s until his death.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]  Charles Paul Hammock (August 24, 1941 – February 15, 2014) was a former Democratic member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives. Hammock graduated from Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He them received his bachelor's degree in economics from Villanova University. He died on February 15, 2014.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]  A native of Jersey City, New Jersey, Hammock was born on July 7, 1981. He attended Bishop Luers High School in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Hammock is a graduate of NIU and the University of Wisconsin-Madison. Hammock is married with one daughter and an infant son.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]  Cicero C. Hammock (1823 – December 15, 1890) was the 22nd and 24th Mayor of Atlanta, Georgia, during the Reconstruction era.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]  Charles Trimmier was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to the former Elma Bross, and her steamfitter husband Buford Trimmier, who had been born in North Carolina. His eldest of three brothers, John Alden Trimmier, had been born 11 years earlier in Ohio, and his eldest of several sisters had been born in West Virginia, as had their mother. By 1930, his mother had moved with four daughters and two sons to Chicago, Illinois, where his 20-year-old daughter Helen supported them by working as a clerk at Bell Telephone company. He married Lucille Elizabeth Anderson, who was active in several clubs in Mobile and survived him by four decades (d. 2007). They had a son, Charles S. Trimmier Jr., who survived them.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP]
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP] Charles Hammock  Charles Paul Hammock (August 24, 1941 – February 15, 2014) was a former Democratic member of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives.  He was also active in the Black Catholic Movement and served for a time as president of the board of directors for the National Office for Black Catholics. He was one of five African-American Catholics to take their grievances against US Catholic racism to the Vatican in a bid to meet with Pope Paul VI. Their efforts were ultimately unsuccessful.  Hammock graduated from Roman Catholic High School in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He them received his bachelor's degree in economics from Villanova University.  He died on February 15, 2014.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP] Christina Koch  Christina Hammock Koch ( ; born January 29, 1979) is an American engineer and NASA astronaut of the class of 2013. She received Bachelor of Science degrees in electrical engineering and physics and a Master of Science in electrical engineering at North Carolina State University.  On March 14, 2019, Koch launched to the International Space Station as a Flight Engineer on Expedition 59, 60 and 61. On October 18, 2019, she and Jessica Meir were the first women to participate in an all-female spacewalk to replace a down power control unit located outside of the International Space Station. On December 28, 2019, Koch broke the record for longest continuous time in space by a woman. She returned from space on February 6, 2020.  Koch was included in "Time"s 100 Most Influential People of 2020.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP] Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings  Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings (August 8, 1896 – December 14, 1953) was an American writer who lived in rural Florida and wrote novels with rural themes and settings. Her best known work, "The Yearling", about a boy who adopts an orphaned fawn, won a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1939 and was later made into a movie of the same name. The book was written before the concept of young adult fiction, but is now commonly included in teen-reading lists.
In what city was Charles Hammock born? [SEP] Ezzard Charles  Ezzard Mack Charles (July 7, 1921 – May 28, 1975), known as the Cincinnati Cobra, was an American professional boxer and World Heavyweight Champion. Known for his slick defense and precision, he is often considered the greatest light heavyweight boxer of all time. Charles defeated numerous Hall of Fame fighters in three different weight classes. Charles retired with a record of 95 wins, 25 losses and 1 draw. He was posthumously inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame in the inaugural class of 1990.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP]  Izhar Elias (born in Amsterdam, 1977) was the first guitarist to win the Dutch Music Prize. He is specialised in new music for guitar, early and chamber music. By using historical methods and original instruments, Elias has been able to recreate a musical language of the Baroque, Classic and Romantic periods. The Prince Bernard Cultural Foundation made it possible for Izhar to own a 1812 unique Guadagnini guitar. His collaboration with composers, choreographers and film makers has led to over 30 premieres and different multimedia projects. In 2014 Izhar was the feature of a documentary, where he played a classical piece written by death metal guitarist Florian Magnus Maier.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP]  Izhar has given concerts, lectures and masterclasses in Europa, south-east Asia, Australia and Russia. He has been the soloist in concertos with orchestras such as Residentie Orchestra, the Netherlands Chamber Orchestra, the Netherlands Symphony Orchestra, Radio Filharmonisch Orkest and Combattimento Consort.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP]  Besides the Dutch Music Prize, Izhar has won many national and international competitions.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP]  Arieh Elias was born in Baghdad. In 1941, he was the first Jew to be accepted to the drama faculty of Baghdad's Academy of Fine Arts. Elias immigrated to  Mandatory Palestine in 1947. He joined the Palmach and fought in the War of Independence. At first he had trouble finding work as an actor due to his pronounced Arabic accent, but his popularity grew after playing the lead in the Israeli film HaYeled Me'ever LaRechov (The Boy Across The Street) in 1965.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP]  Ilya Mohadab Sasson (إلياس مؤدب) commonly known as Elias Moadab (6 February 1916 – 28 May 1952) was an Egyptian comedy actor, born to a Jewish Syrian father and Jewish Egyptian mother from the city of Tanta. He graduated from the Lycee school in 1923 and lived in the old Jewish quarter of Cairo. Elias began his artistic career as a singer (Monologist) in the famous nightclub «Alooberg» where he was introduced to Bishara Wakim and Ismail Yasin, they opened the doors for him to work in the films. Elias met the famous dancer Beba Izz Al-Din, which also he worked with her for a period. He worked also in several nightclubs, including (Al Ariozna) and (Helmia Palace).
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP] Izhar Elias  Izhar Elias (born in Amsterdam, 1977) was the first guitarist to win the Dutch Music Prize. He is specialised in new music for guitar, early and chamber music. By using historical methods and original instruments, Elias has been able to recreate a musical language of the Baroque, Classic and Romantic periods. The Prince Bernard Cultural Foundation made it possible for Izhar to own a 1812 unique Guadagnini guitar. His collaboration with composers, choreographers and film makers has led to over 30 premieres and different multimedia projects.  In 2014 Izhar was the feature of a documentary, where he played a classical piece written by death metal guitarist Florian Magnus Maier.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP] Erik Bosgraaf  Erik Bosgraaf (born 9 May 1980) is a Dutch recorder player and musicologist.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP] Lex Eisenhardt  Lex Eisenhardt (born 1952, in Netherlands) is a performer and recording artist on early plucked instruments, such as the vihuela, the baroque guitar, and the 19th-century Romantic guitar. He studied lute and guitar at the Utrecht Conservatory. In 1981 he was appointed professor of guitar and early plucked instruments at the Sweelinck Conservatorium (later the Conservatorium of Amsterdam). In the forefront of the Historically Informed Performance (HIP) on the guitar, Eisenhardt was the first to make several gramophone recordings (in 1981 and 1984) with music by the Catalan composer Fernando Sor on a period instrument from the early 19th century. He has given solo recitals and lectures in many European countries, Australia, and the United States. Well-known guitarists such as Johannes Moller and Izhar Elias studied with him.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP] Bram van Sambeek  Bram van Sambeek (born 1980) is a Dutch bassoon soloist and teacher.   He was principal bassoonist in the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra (2002–2011) and played as a regular guest principal in the London Symphony Orchestra and Mahler Chamber Orchestra. He has performed as a soloist with many orchestras like the Gothenburg Symphony Orchestra, Lahti Symphony Orchestra, and the Rotterdam Philharmonic Orchestra, and has an ongoing cooperation with BIS Records...  Van Sambeek held a professorship at the Hochschule für Musik und Tanz Köln from 2017 until 2021. Since 2019 he teaches exclusively at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague.
In what city was Izhar Elias born? [SEP] Florian Magnus Maier  Florian Magnus Maier (born 1973), also known as Morean, is a German classical composer, guitarist, producer and vocalist of the bands Alkaloid, Dark Fortress, and Noneuclid. Although born in Munich, he has resided in the Netherlands for over 20 years, his primary occupation being a composer and guitar player within both the contemporary classical and heavy metal communities. Although mostly recognized within the metal community for his vocalist duties with black metal band Dark Fortress, Maier is also a vocalist and guitarist for progressive metal outfits Alkaloid and Noneuclid. Being a classical composer, Maier has also collaborated with Devin Townsend and Paradise Lost on orchestrations.  In 2014, the Dutch Public Broadcasting channel released a documentary about the life and work of Maier, highlighting his most famous classical piece, Schattenspiel.  After the departure of Erick Rutan from Morbid Angel, Maier auditioned for the lead guitarist role, and was one of the 3 runners-up to take the position, eventually delegated to Destructhor of Zyklon.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]  Roger Morton McCardell (August 29, 1932 &ndash; November 13, 1996) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as a catcher for the San Francisco Giants in.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]  McCardell was born in Gorsuch Mills in Baltimore County, Maryland, and attended Boston University. He threw and batted right-handed and was listed at 6 ft tall and 200 lb. McCardell's professional career began in 1950 and he spent 11 seasons (and played in 911 games) in minor league baseball. His lone big-league trial occurred at the outset of the 1959 season. McCardell was the starting catcher in his MLB debut on May 8, and went hitless in two at bats against Danny McDevitt of the Los Angeles Dodgers before being removed for a pinch hitter. He went hitless in his two subsequent MLB at bats as well. He was traded by the Giants to the Baltimore Orioles on November 30, in a transaction headlined by Billy O'Dell and Jackie Brandt, but never appeared in a Major League game with his hometown club. McCardell retired from baseball after the 1962 season and died in Wilmington, Delaware, at the age of 64.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]  Archie McCardell was born in Hazel Park, Michigan in August 1926. He served in the United States Army Air Forces in World War II. Following his time in the service, he attended the University of Michigan (he was the first person in his family to attend college), where he earned a bachelor's degree and a Master of Business Administration.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]  Bushell was born in Springs, Transvaal, South Africa, on 30 August 1910 to English parents, Benjamin Daniel and Dorothy Wingate Bushell (née White). His father, a mining engineer, had emigrated to the country from Britain and he used his wealth to ensure that Roger received a first-class education. He was first schooled in Johannesburg, then aged 14 went to Wellington College in Berkshire, England. In 1929, Bushell then went to Pembroke College, Cambridge, to study law. Keen on pursuing non-academic interests from an early age, Bushell excelled in rugby and cricket and skied for Cambridge in races between 1930 and 1932, captaining the team in 1931.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]  Erell was born Roger Lelièvre in Mansle (Charente) in 1907.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP] Roger McCardell  Roger Morton McCardell (August 29, 1932 – November 13, 1996) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as a catcher for the San Francisco Giants in .
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP] McCardell  McCardell is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP] Claire McCardell  Claire McCardell (May 24, 1905 – March 22, 1958) was an American fashion designer of ready-to-wear clothing in the twentieth century. She is credited with the creation of American sportswear.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP] Billy O'Dell  William Oliver O'Dell (February 10, 1933 – September 12, 2018), known as Billy O'Dell and also as Digger O'Dell, was an American professional baseball player who pitched in the Major Leagues in thirteen seasons: 1954 and from 1956 to 1967. He was signed by the Baltimore Orioles as an amateur free agent in 1954, and was a bonus baby, never spending a day in the minors. He did not play in 1955 due to service in the military.  O'Dell was an All-Star representative for the American League in 1958 and 1959, and in 1959 had the highest strikeout to walk ratio in all of MLB with 2.69. On May 19, 1959, O'Dell hit an inside-the-park home run for the Orioles in a 2–1 victory over the Chicago White Sox. On November 30, 1959, the Orioles traded him, along with Billy Loes, to the San Francisco Giants for Jackie Brandt, Gordon Jones and Roger McCardell.<ref name="baseball-reference.com"/>  In 1962, O'Dell won a career high 19 games for the NL champion Giants. O'Dell was the losing pitcher in Game 1 of the 1962 World Series against the New York Yankees. He gave up a two-run double to Roger Maris, an RBI single to Tony Kubek, a solo home run to Clete Boyer, and finally an RBI single to Dale Long before being relieved by manager Alvin Dark for veteran pitcher Don Larsen, thus allowing five earned runs in 7 innings. He did strike out eight, including Hall of Famer Mickey Mantle, who struck out twice.  On July 23, 1964, O'Dell allowed 12 runs (11 earned) in seven innings in a 13–4 loss to the Cubs. Alvin Dark, the Giants manager, was criticized for leaving O'Dell in so long, but Dark later explained that he thought O'Dell needed to get more work in. O'Dell had not been pitching deep in games that year, and his elbow was getting sore from disuse. While O'Dell's ERA was lower after that game, he only made one further start, working mainly out of the bullpen for the rest of the year.  O'Dell finished his career with the Milwaukee Braves and the Pittsburgh Pirates. He was with the Braves when they moved to Atlanta. After 1963, he pitched mostly in relief. O'Dell's final game was on September 12, 1967, in relief for the Pirates.<ref name="baseball-reference.com"/>  O'Dell attended Clemson University. He died at a hospital in Newberry, South Carolina on September 12, 2018, from complications of Parkinson's disease, aged 85.
In what city was Roger McCardell born? [SEP]
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]  Antonio Calcagni (1538 in Recanati – 1593) is an Italian sculptor of the Renaissance period. He apprenticed with Girolamo Lombardo in Recanati, where he completed a statue of Pope Gregory XIII (1574) started by Ludovico Lombardi and Ascoli. He also completed a statue of the poet Annibale Caro in bronze. He also completed bronze reliefs for the Basilica of Loreto. He collaborated with a younger Tiburzio Vergelli. He designed the monumental entry doors to the church of Loreto, but these were completed by his nephew Tarquinio Jacometti and his pupil Sebastiano Sebastiani.
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]  Mosca was born in Pieve di Cento, and died in Bologna. Born to a humble family, he obtained a stipend from the Pious Legacy or Endowment by the Melloni family to attend the Academy of Fine Arts of Bologna during 1894 to 1896. He refined his ability to paint portraits. By 1900, Antonio had moved to Bologna, and established friendships with Francesco Fabbri and Cesare Mauro Trebbi, with whom he would collaborate in the decoration of the cupola of the church of Church of San Pietro in Castello d'Argile. In 1905, he was employed in collaboration with Domenico Ferri, in the decoration of the cupola and apse of the church of Santa Maria Magdalena in Bologna. He pursued this work in a number of churches in Northeast Italy, including the parish church of Tuenno in Trentino-Alto Adige and in the Chapel of the Immaculate Conception in Borgo Valsugana, Trento. He wrote a treatise on perspective awarded at prizes in Milan, Paris, and Bologna in 1913. In 1912-1913 he painted a portrait of King Nikola I of Montenegro. Pieve di Cento in 1924 commissioned him to decorate the public clock in the Palazzo Comunale.
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]  By age 12 he was awarded a year scholarship to a design school. Diego proudly recalled that in his youth religious artist Antonino Calcagnadoro (1876–1935) let him help paint a church fresco. Diego studied sculpture and painting for three years at Lyce d'Art, followed by studies of Greek and Latin, as well as tailoring. All three Voci boys were sent to Reggio to study tailoring. In December 1920, four months after Diego's birth, their father took the oldest brother Vincenzo, age 15, to Philadelphia where they both worked as tailors. For 3 ½ years Messina Arcangela raised "Toto", her pet name for Diego, until her husband came back to Gasperina with enough money to open a dry goods store. In
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]  Antonio Calza (1658–1725) was an Italian painter of the Baroque period. He was born in Verona to a jeweler. He was the pupil of the Bolognese painter Carlo Cignani, then moved to Rome to work under Jacques Courtois. Guglielmo Capodoro (Paganini) and Giovanni Battista Canziani were his pupils. Calza, who worked mostly in Bologna, is known for painting historical and battle paintings. In 1675, he reconciled with his father, and married an 88-year-old widow. He was to marry three times, the last in 1710 to a painter of flower still lifes. He painted in Milan for General Martini, and in Vienna for Prince Eugenie, including portraits of the Prince and the Emperor. He died in Verona on April 18, 1725.
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]  Calcagno was born in Tramontana di Parodi Ligure, in the province of Alessandri on 3 February 1943. After studying arts at the diocesan seminary, he attended the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, earning a degree in dogmatic theology. He was ordained a priest on 29 June 1967 by Cardinal Giuseppe Siri. After several years of parish ministry, he was appointed professor of Theology at the Theological Faculty of Northern Italy and, later, at the Higher Institute of Religious Studies of Liguria. He served as president of the diocesan clergy institute and was the episcopal vicar for "new activities". At the national level his assignments included: Secretary of
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP] Calcagni  Calcagni is a surname of Italian origin. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP] Tiburzio Vergelli  Tiburzio Vergelli (1551-1609) was an Italian sculptor and founder.  Born in Camerino, Vergelli was a highly skilled metal smelter. He trained in the workshop of Antonio Calcagni and Girolamo Lombardo in Recanati. His first work is the statue of Pope Sixtus V, given to his hometown Camerino. In the aftermath of the election of a new Pope, this statue was done around the same time as Calcagni was working on a similar statue for Loreto, Marche (1585–1587) and follows the same compositional scheme. This generated a split between the two, who subsequently contributed separately to the main door of the Basilica della Santa Casa; Calcagni was entrusted to the door of the south side, the north side was given to Vergelli. For the baptismal font, Vergelli worked alongside Sebastian Sebastiani and Giovan Battista Vitali between 1600 and 1608. He died in 1609 in Recanati.
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP]
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP] Antonio Donnarumma  Antonio Donnarumma (; born 7 July 1990) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for club Padova.
In what city was Antonio Calcagni born? [SEP] Girolamo Lombardo  Girolamo Lombardo, also Girolamo Lombardi (1506–1590), was an Italian sculptor.  Lombardo was born in Ferrara, the son of the architect and sculptor Antonio Lombardo, and also was the brother of Lodovico and Aurelio, also sculptors. He studied and began in his father's workshop in Ferrara, then subsequently traveled to Venice to continue training with Jacopo Sansovino, with which, between 1532 and 1540, he worked in the Biblioteca Marciana in the Loggia of the bell tower of Saint Mark's in Venice.  Lombardo is documented in Loreto, Marche since 1543, where for some years he was active with his brother Aurelio and where they were in 1550 also reached the third brother, Lodovico. Around 1552 he moved with his brothers and opened their own foundry and workshop in Recanati, passing the Venetian mature technique to all operators of the workshop. The school sculptural continued in subsequent generations with Tiburzio Vergelli, Antonio Calcagni, Sebastiano Sebastiani, Tarquinio Jacometti and Pier Paolo Jacometti.  His sons Anthony, Peter and Paul, also became sculptors and bronze founders.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]  Philipp Crone (born 16 March 1977 in Cologne) is a German former field hockey player who competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics and in the 2004 Summer Olympics. After his time in sports, he worked as journalist for different German newspapers like Sueddeutsche Zeitung and for Bayerischer Rundfunk.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]  Crone was born in Kyndeløse Sydmark (south of Kyndeløse) 23 km northwest of Roskilde in Roskilde County, Denmark, on March 28, 1945. After taking the forprøve (preliminary exam) at University of Copenhagen, she went to Paris to learn French, and then to London where she was determined to get into a university to become fluent in English. In 1974, she earned her PhD at the University of London, where she was a senior research fellow at the Warburg Institute until 1977. She was accepted as an occasional student at King's College London and followed a course in medieval European history, especially church-state relations.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]  Drs. Ferdinandus Johannes Maria Crone (born 19 July 1954) is a Dutch politician. He was born in Dordrecht in 1954. On 15 November 2007 he became mayor of Leeuwarden. He remained mayor until the 26th of August 2019 when he was replaced by Sybrand Buma. As of February 2020 he is a member of the First Chamber of the States General. He was made a knight of the Order of Orange Nassau on 15 November 2007.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]  Erik Crone was born in Poppelgade 1, Copenhagen 14 September 1896 as the third child to merchant Vilhelm Valdemar Gerhard Crone and wife Julie Johanne Amelia Crone. Crone lost his father in 1907, when he was 13 years old. In 1910, Crone started a teenage acting career with roles in two silent movies from Nordisk Film. Crone died in Denmark on 27 March 1971.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]  Rainer Crone (June 7, 1942, Hamburg - June 2016, Regensburg ) was University Professor emeritus of Contemporary Art and History of Film at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich and a specialist in the art of Andy Warhol. He previously taught at Yale University, the University of California, Berkeley, Columbia University, and New York University.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP] Philipp Crone  Philipp Crone (born 16 March 1977 in Cologne) is a German former field hockey player who competed in the 2000 Summer Olympics and in the 2004 Summer Olympics.  After his time in sports, he worked as journalist for different German newspapers like "Sueddeutsche Zeitung" and for Bayerischer Rundfunk.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP] Moira Crone  Moira Crone (born 1952) is an American fiction author. She was born and raised in Goldsboro, in the tobacco country in eastern North Carolina. She is the author of three collections of short fiction and two novels. Her short stories have been classified as "Southern Gnostic", and as exemplifying the spirit of the New South. Her work has been compared to Flannery O'Connor's for its spiritual overtones and to Sherwood Anderson's for its depiction of small-town life and characters. She taught fiction writing at Louisiana State University, where she served for a number of years as Director of the MFA Program in Creative Writing and is now Professor Emerita. She also worked as fiction editor for the University Press of Mississippi. Her works have been chosen for the "Year's Best" by the award anthology "New Stories From The South" five times. In 2009, she was awarded the Robert Penn Warren Award in Fiction from the Fellowship of Southern Writers in recognition of her body of work. In the citation, Allan Gurganus wrote, "Moira Crone is a fable maker with a musical ear, a plenitude of nerve, and epic heart."  Moira Crone lives in New Orleans. She is married to poet and author Rodger Kamenetz and has two daughters, author Anya Kamenetz and Kezia Kamenetz.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP] Rainer Crone  Rainer Crone (June 7, 1942 - June 2016) was a German art historian. He was University Professor emeritus of Contemporary Art and History of Film at Ludwig Maximilian University in Munich and a specialist in the art of Andy Warhol. He previously taught at Yale University, the University of California, Berkeley, Columbia University, and New York University.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP] Robert Crone (artist)  Robert Crone (c. 1718 - 1779) was an Irish landscape painter.
In what city was Philipp Crone born? [SEP]
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP]  I.P. Paul is an Indian National Congress politician from Thrissur city, India. He was the fourth mayor of Thrissur Municipal Corporation.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP]  M. P. Paul was born on the May Day of 1904 at Puthenpally Varapuzha, in Ernakulam district of the south Indian state of Kerala to Poulose and Rosamma. After early schooling locally, he did his high school studies at St. Albert's High School, Ernakulam and though he completed his high school course with scholarship, he could not appear for the Secondary School Leaving Certificate in 1918 as he was under age at the time of the examination. Subsequently, he passed the examination the next year and completed his intermediate course at St. Thomas College, Thrissur before graduating in History from St Joseph's College, Tiruchirappalli in 1924.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP]  Prior to Paul's birth, his parents Sarah Agnes, née Noel, and William Gabriel were relocated from Saint John, New Brunswick, to Indian Brook 14, Nova Scotia. Paul was born at Indian Brook, the eleventh of fourteen children. During his childhood, he earned money through selling the Star Weekly, Liberty Magazine, seeds, and greeting cards, and painted the interior of houses. He married the love of his life, Victoria (Pat) Oakley, and had three children. He attended the Indian Day School on Shubenacadie Indian Reserve to grade eight. He left home for Boston when he was fourteen and came face to face with the oddities of big-time city life for
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP]  George S Paul, also known as G. S. Paul (born 25 January 1947) is an Indian writer, essayist and music journalist. He was born to Rev. K. C. Samuel and Thankamma Samuel in Thiruvalla, Pathanamthitta district of Kerala.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP]  Paul P. (born 1977) is a Canadian artist known primarily for his work as an oil painter. He explores topics including identity, beauty, gender and history.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP] I. P. Paul  I.P. Paul is an Indian National Congress politician from Thrissur city, India. He was the fourth mayor of Thrissur Municipal Corporation.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP] Paul Thomas Anderson  Paul Thomas Anderson (born June 26, 1970), also known by his initials PTA, is an American filmmaker. His films have consistently garnered critical acclaim. Anderson's films are often psychological dramas and characterized by depictions of flawed and desperate characters, explorations of themes such as dysfunctional families, alienation, loneliness and redemption, and a bold visual style that uses moving camera and long takes. Anderson has been nominated for eleven Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, and eight BAFTA Awards (winning one), and has won a Silver Lion at Venice, a Best Director Award at Cannes, and both a Golden and a Silver Bear at Berlin.  He made his feature-film debut with "Hard Eight" (1996). He found critical and commercial success with "Boogie Nights" (1997) and received further accolades with "Magnolia" (1999) and "Punch-Drunk Love" (2002), a romantic comedy-drama film. Anderson's fifth film, "There Will Be Blood" (2007), about an oil prospector during the Southern California oil boom, is often cited as one of the greatest films of the 2000s. This was followed by "The Master" (2012), "Inherent Vice" (2014), "Phantom Thread" (2017), and "Licorice Pizza" (2021).  Anderson is also known for having directed music videos for artists including Fiona Apple, Radiohead, Haim, Joanna Newsom, Aimee Mann, Jon Brion, and Michael Penn. He directed a documentary, "Junun" (2015), about the making of the album "Junun" in India. In 2019, he directed a short music film, "Anima," starring Thom Yorke.   He is noted for his frequent collaborations with actors Philip Baker Hall, Philip Seymour Hoffman, Melora Walters and John C. Reilly, cinematographer Robert Elswit, costume designer Mark Bridges, and composers Jon Brion and Jonny Greenwood.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP] Paul Goldstein (law professor)  Paul Goldstein (born January 14, 1943) is a law professor at Stanford Law School.  A globally recognized expert on intellectual property law, Goldstein is the author of an influential four-volume treatise on U.S. copyright law and a five-volume treatise on international copyright law, as well as leading casebooks on intellectual property and international intellectual property. He has authored nine books including five novels, "Errors and Omissions", "A Patent Lie", "Secret Justice", "Legal Asylum" and "Havana Requiem", which won the 2013 Harper Lee Prize for Legal Fiction. Some of his other works include "Copyright’s Highway: From Gutenberg to the Celestial Jukebox", a widely acclaimed book on the history and future of copyright, and "Intellectual Property: The Tough New Realities That Could Make or Break Your Business".  Goldstein has been regularly included in "Best Lawyers in America". He has served as chairman of the United States Office of Technology Assessment Advisory Panel on Intellectual Property Rights in an Age of Electronics and Information, has been a visiting scholar at the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Patent, Copyright, and Competition Law, and was a founding faculty member of the Munich Intellectual Property Law Center. In addition, before joining the Stanford Law School faculty in 1975, he was a professor of law at the University at Buffalo Law School.
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP] Paul Mockapetris  Paul V. Mockapetris (born 1948 in Boston, Massachusetts, US) is an American computer scientist and Internet pioneer, who invented the Internet Domain Name System (DNS).
In what city was I.P. Paul born? [SEP] Paul Kruger  Stephanus Johannes Paulus Kruger (; 10 October 1825 – 14 July 1904) was a South African politician. He was one of the dominant political and military figures in 19th-century South Africa, and President of the South African Republic (or Transvaal) from 1883 to 1900. Nicknamed "Oom Paul" ("Uncle Paul"), he came to international prominence as the face of the Boer cause—that of the Transvaal and its neighbour the Orange Free State—against Britain during the Second Boer War of 1899–1902. He has been called a personification of Afrikanerdom, and remains a controversial figure; admirers venerate him as a tragic folk hero.  Born near the eastern edge of the Cape Colony, Kruger took part in the Great Trek as a child during the late 1830s. He had almost no education apart from the Bible. A protégé of the Voortrekker leader Andries Pretorius, he witnessed the signing of the Sand River Convention with Britain in 1852 and over the next decade played a prominent role in the forging of the South African Republic, leading its commandos and resolving disputes between the rival Boer leaders and factions. In 1863 he was elected Commandant-General, a post he held for a decade before he resigned soon after the election of President Thomas François Burgers.  Kruger was appointed Vice President in March 1877, shortly before the South African Republic was annexed by Britain as the Transvaal. Over the next three years he headed two deputations to London to try to have this overturned. He became the leading figure in the movement to restore the South African Republic's independence, culminating in the Boers' victory in the First Boer War of 1880–81. Kruger served until 1883 as a member of an executive triumvirate, then was elected President. In 1884 he headed a third deputation that brokered the London Convention, under which Britain recognised the South African Republic as a completely independent state.  Following the influx of thousands of predominantly British settlers with the Witwatersrand Gold Rush of 1886, "uitlanders" (foreigners) provided almost all of the South African Republic's tax revenues but lacked civic representation; Boer burghers retained control of the government. The uitlander problem and the associated tensions with Britain dominated Kruger's attention for the rest of his presidency, to which he was re-elected in 1888, 1893 and 1898, and led to the Jameson Raid of 1895–96 and ultimately the Second Boer War. Kruger left for Europe as the war turned against the Boers in 1900 and spent the rest of his life in exile, refusing to return home following the British victory. After he died in Switzerland at the age of 78 in 1904, his body was returned to South Africa for a state funeral, and buried in the Heroes' Acre in Pretoria.
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]  Endre Bálint (1914 – 1986, in Budapest) was a Hungarian painter and graphic artist.
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]  He was born in 1920, in Budapest, Hungary. His father was an engineer at the Budapest Waterworks until the communist takeover after World War II. He graduated from the University of Budapest in 1942 and started his research career at the Department of Histology and Embryology of the university. In 1947, he continued his research at the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm. He was the director of ophthalmic research at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, from 1975 to 1982. He died on August 29, 2015 in Saint-Tropez, France.
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]  Benjamin Balint (born 1976) is an American-Israeli author, journalist, educator, and translator. His 2018 book explores the literary legacy of Franz Kafka. He lives in Jerusalem.
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP] My Room at the Bindendorfs 1937 ; Self-portrait 1942 ; Still-life 1946 ; House at Szentendre 1948 ; Root Dance 1952 ; Stone Bird 1952 ; Statue in a Cemetery 1959 ; Houses at Hastings 1959 ; Homesickness 1959
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]  László was born in Subotica, a city in the northern parts of Serbia, known as Vojvodina. He finished his elementary studies in the Miloš Crnjanski elementary school with a Vuk-degree in his hand. After this he studied and finished his secondary studies at the Svetozar Marković High School as a social science and language specialist. In 2009, he got his degree as a geographer at the University of Szeged. Later, in 2011, he finished his master studies in the same university, and became a Land development geographer. In his university years, he did a lot of student jobs. The situation of Hungarians in Vojvodina is one of his main interests. Since he was 16, he became founder and member of various civil organizations both in Vojvodina and in Hungary. He was founder and chairman of the
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP] Stephan Balint  Stephan Balint (born "Bálint István" 11 July 1943 in Budapest, died 11 October 2007 in Budapest) was a writer, actor, theatre director and playwright. Balint was co-founder of New York's Squat Theatre where he wrote, acted and directed "L-Train to Eldorado" and "Full Moon Killer".
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP] List of Hungarian painters  This is an incomplete list of Hungarian painters. For sculptors see List of Hungarian sculptors  Gyémánt László
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP] List of Hungarian Americans  This is a list of notable Hungarian Americans, including both original immigrants who obtained American citizenship and their American descendants.  Many Hungarians emigrated to the United States during the Second World War and after the Soviet invasion in 1956 during Operation Safe Haven.
In what city was Endre Bálint born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]  Maxim Alexandrovich Nekrasov was born on 27 September 2000 in Odintsovo, Russia.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]  Nekrasov was born in Moscow. A journalist, he worked in the publishing house Moscow worker. He learned Esperanto in 1915.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]   Andrei Lvovich Nekrasov (Андре́й Льво́вич Некра́сов; born 26 February 1958 in Saint Petersburg) is a Russian film and TV director from Saint Petersburg.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]  Aleksandr Maksimovich Nekrasov (Александр Максимович Некрасов; born 20 August 1998) is a Russian football player. He plays for FC Dynamo Saint Petersburg.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]  Aleksandr Evgenyevich Nepomnyashchiy (Александр Евгеньевич Непомнящий; February 16, 1968 – April 20, 2007) was a Russian poet, singer and bard, as well as a member of the National Bolshevik Party. He was born in Kovrov and died, aged 39, in Ivanovo.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP] Aleksandr Nekrasov (footballer)  Aleksandr Maksimovich Nekrasov (; born 20 August 1998) is a Russian football player.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP] Aleksandr Nekrasov  Aleksandr Ivanovich Nekrasov (; – 21 May 1957) was a mathematician known for his mathematical contributions to hydromechanics and aeromechanics. The Nekrasov integral equation describing surface waves is named for him.
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandr Nekrasov born? [SEP] Nekrasov  Nekrasov, also "Nekrassov" (), or Nekrasova (feminine; Некра́сова), is a Russian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP] }
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]  Andrian Mardiansyah (born November 14, 1978) is an Indonesian football player and manager who previously plays as midfielder for Persikota Tangerang, Persija Jakarta, Persib Bandung, Deltras Sidoarjo, PSIS Semarang, Persikabo Bogor, Persiba Balikpapan, Persidafon Dafonsoro and the Indonesia national team.
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]  He received his first international cap on 31 July 1999 and retired from the Indonesia national football team in 1999, appearing in 5 matches. Andrian scored the first goal for Indonesia in the 1999 Southeast Asian Games football tournament against Cambodia.
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]  Andjar was born Abisin Abbas in Alahan Panjang, West Sumatra, on 26 February 1902. He gravitated toward traditional theatre at a young age after visits from the wandering Wayang Kassim and Juliana Opera stambul troupes; he pretended to act with his friends in stage plays which they had seen. After completing his formal education up to the Meer Uitgebreid Lager Onderwijs (junior high school) level – first in Malay-language schools then Dutch ones – he moved to Batavia (modern-day Jakarta). He worked as a reporter for two daily newspapers, Bintang Timoer and Bintang Hindia; he may have also worked on a farm. Around 1925, having had little success in Batavia, Andjar moved to Padang, where he was a reporter for the
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP] Persija Jakarta : ; Liga Indonesia Premier Division champions : 1 (2001)
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP] Andrian Mardiansyah  Andrian Mardiansyah (born 14 November 1978) is an Indonesian football player and manager who previously plays as midfielder for Persikota Tangerang, Persija Jakarta, Persib Bandung, Deltras Sidoarjo, PSIS Semarang, Persikabo Bogor, Persiba Balikpapan, Persidafon Dafonsoro and the Indonesia national team.
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP] Andrian (name)  Andrian is a male given name and a German surname. It may refer to the following people:
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]
In what city was Andrian Mardiansyah born? [SEP]
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP]  James Albert Myers (April 8, 1874 &ndash; October 12, 1915) was an American professional baseball player who played in parts of three seasons for the St. Louis Browns, Washington Senators and Philadelphia Phillies. He was born in Frederick, Maryland and died in Washington, D.C. at the age of 41.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP]  He was born in New Haven, Connecticut, on September 5, 1882. When he was young, Myers moved to Philadelphia, where he received most of his education. He studied drawing and design at the Philadelphia Art School for three years. Turning from art to drama, he acted for two years with the Girard Avenue Stock Company and with other troupes in subsequent years. Myers had been a theatre actor for 10 years before he went into films as an actor for Siegmund Lubin's Lubin Studios in 1909. By 1914, he was directing his own comedy shorts featuring him and his wife, Rosemary Theby, for Universal, the Vim Comedy Company, and Pathé studios. After 1920 he had many starring roles in feature-length films, the most notable of which was as the eccentric alcoholic millionaire in Charlie Chaplin's City Lights (1931). His career declined after the introduction of sound films. Myers died on December 25, 1938, in Hollywood, California, at age 56, from pneumonia.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP]  Wilson "Serious" Myers (born Ernest Wilson Myers or Wilson Ernestine Myers, October 2, 1906 – July 10, 1992) was an American jazz double-bassist,  vocalist, bandleader and arranger, best known for his contributions to New Orleans jazz.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP]  Scott Myers (born 1958, USA) is an American painter and sculptor who lives and works in Texas. He graduated Texas A&M University in 1984 with a doctorate in veterinary medicine. He studied sculpture throughout Italy focusing on Florence, Venice and Rome. Sculpting in Tuscany, he cast his work in bronze at the prestigious Fonderia d'Arte Massimo Del Chiaro in Pietrasanta. In 1994, Myers became an elected member of the National Sculpture Society. On February 12, 2011, Myers was featured in the popular television show Texas Country Reporter. Myers was inducted in the inaugural class of the Haltom City High School Hall of Fame on March 10,
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP]  Jerome Myers (March 20, 1867 – June 19, 1940) was an American artist and writer associated with the Ashcan School, particularly known for his sympathetic depictions of the urban landscape and its people. He was one of the main organizers of the 1913 Armory Show, which introduced European modernism to America. Born in Petersburg, Virginia and raised in Philadelphia, Trenton and Baltimore, he spent his adult life in New York City. Myers worked briefly as an actor and scene painter. He then studied art for a year at Cooper Union followed by study at the Art Students League over a period of eight years where his main teacher was George de Forest Brush. In 1896 he went to Paris, but only stayed a few months, believing that his main classroom was
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP] Burt Myers  Burt Myers (born December 30, 1975) is a race car driver on NASCAR's Whelen Southern Modified Tour. In 1999, at the age of 23, he became the youngest Bowman Gray Stadium track champion in history and would go on to win 9 more titles in 2001, 2007, 2010, 2011, 2013, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. He has won more pole awards than any other driver in the Whelen Southern Modified Tour's history. Myers has 19 career wins and won the 2010 and 2016 NASCAR Whelen Southern Modified Tour Championship.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP] Bert Myers  James Albert Myers (April 8, 1874 – October 12, 1915) was an American professional baseball player who played in parts of three seasons for the St. Louis Browns, Washington Senators and Philadelphia Phillies. He was born in Frederick, Maryland and died in Washington, D.C. at the age of 41.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP] Bert Blyleven  Bert Blyleven (born Rik Aalbert Blijleven, April 6, 1951) is a Dutch-American former professional baseball pitcher who played 22 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1970 to 1992, primarily with the Minnesota Twins. Blyleven recorded 3,701 career strikeouts, the fifth-most in MLB history. He won 287 games, 27th-most all-time and pitched 4,970 innings, 14th-most all-time. A renowned curveball pitcher, Blyleven was also a two-time All-Star and World Series champion. Although under-appreciated during his playing career, he was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2011—his second-to-last year of eligibility.  Blyleven made his major league debut at age 19 for the Twins. In the middle of the 1976 season, he was traded to the Texas Rangers, where he threw a no-hitter in his final start for the team. He won his first World Series with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1979. Upon being traded to the Cleveland Indians, Blyleven initially struggled with injuries, but then enjoyed a late-career resurgence, finishing third in the Cy Young Award voting in back-to-back years, with Cleveland in 1984 and also the following 1985 season that he split between the Indians and Twins. It was during this second stint with Minnesota that Blyleven became the tenth member of the 3,000-strikeout club in 1986 and won a second World Series title in 1987. He played three seasons for the California Angels before retiring.  Blyleven became the first Dutch-born player to earn induction into the Baseball Hall of Fame. He served as the pitching coach for the Netherlands national baseball team in the 2009, 2013 and 2017 World Baseball Classic. From 1996 to 2020, he was a color analyst for Minnesota Twins television broadcasts.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP] Fort Myers, Florida  Fort Myers (or Ft. Myers) is a city in southwestern Florida and the county seat and commercial center of Lee County, Florida, United States. The Census Bureau's Population Estimates Program calculated that the city's population was 92,245 in 2021, ranking the city the 370th-most-populous in the country.<ref name=ANNRNK/> Together with the larger and more residential city of Cape Coral, the smaller cities of Fort Myers Beach, Sanibel, and Bonita Springs, the village of Estero, and the unincorporated districts of Lehigh Acres and North Fort Myers, it anchors a metropolitan statistical area (MSA) which comprises Lee County and has a population of 787,976 as of 2021.  Fort Myers is a gateway to the Southwest Florida region and a major tourist destination within Florida. The winter estates of Thomas Edison ("Seminole Lodge") and Henry Ford ("The Mangoes") are major attractions. The city takes its name from a local former fort that was built during the Seminole Wars. The fort in turn took its name from Colonel Abraham Myers in 1850; Myers served in the United States Army, mostly the Quartermaster Department, in various posts from 1833-1861 and was the quartermaster general of the Confederate States Army from 1861–1864. Lee County alone suffered an estimated $5.342 billion USD (2022) in total damages, with over 50,000 residential and commercial structures severely damaged or completely destroyed. The city is still currently recovering from the storm.
In what city was Bert Myers born? [SEP] Verne Troyer  Verne Jay Troyer (January 1, 1969 – April 21, 2018) was an American actor, comedian, YouTuber, and stunt performer. He was best known for his role of Mini-Me in the "Austin Powers" film series. He had cartilage–hair hypoplasia and was tall.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP]  Scott Fraser was born and raised in Ottawa, Ontario, and attended Carleton University. In 1979 he moved to Alberta and worked on the oil rigs throughout the province and in the Arctic. He eventually moved to Vancouver, British Columbia, then, in 1992, to Tofino. With his wife and young daughter, he opened a bed and breakfast business. Only four years later, Fraser became the mayor of Tofino. He was mayor from November 1996 to November 1999, a time when tourism was over-taking logging and fishing as the town's dominant industry. Fraser was supportive of the application to the United Nations to designate Clayoquot Sound as a biosphere site; Clayoquot Sound was listed as a Biosphere Reserve in 2000. Fraser was the subject of a complaint filed at the British Columbia
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP]  McCaig was born December 12,1965 in Duncan, British Columbia on Vancouver Island. His parents grew up in Northwestern Ontario. He grew up in Kamloops, British Columbia.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP]  Fraser first started playing competitive football with local boys side Dee Club before moving onto Longforgan Boys Club, along with future teammate Scott Smith. At age 10 he then joined the youth set-up at Dundee United.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP]  Scott Stewart Fraser (born 30 March 1995) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for League One club Ipswich Town. He has previously played for Dundee United, Airdrieonians, Burton Albion and Milton Keynes Dons.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP]  On 9 September 2020, Fraser signed a two-year contract with fellow League One club Milton Keynes Dons. He made his debut on 19 September 2020 in a 2–1 home league defeat to Lincoln City, and scored his first goal for the club on 10 October 2020 in a 2–1 away league defeat to Portsmouth. Following a successful year in which he scored a career-best 14 goals in 50 appearances, Fraser was named MK Dons Players' Player of the Year for the 2021–22 season.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP] Scott Fraser (footballer, born 1995)  Scott Stewart Fraser (born 30 March 1995) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for League One club Charlton Athletic.  He has previously played for Dundee United, Airdrieonians, Burton Albion, Milton Keynes Dons and Ipswich Town.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP] Scott Fraser (orienteer)  Scott Fraser (born 25 March 1986 in Edinburgh) is an orienteering competitor from Great Britain. He received a silver medal in the "sprint" at the 2013 World Orienteering Championships in Vuokatti.  Fraser has also won the JK overall and sprint, as well as the British Orienteering Championships middle once and the Sprint a record three times in a row.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP] Scott Fraser (racing driver)  Scott Andrew Fraser (October 20, 1970March 20, 2004) was a Canadian professional racing car driver from Shubenacadie, Nova Scotia. Fraser was considered by many to be one of the best stock car racers in Canada.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP] Scott Fraser (ice hockey)  Scott Robert Fraser (born May 3, 1972) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player who played in the NHL with the Montreal Canadiens, Edmonton Oilers, and New York Rangers. He played right wing/centre and shot right-handed.
In what city was Scott Fraser born? [SEP] Scott Fraser (footballer, born 1963)  Scott Fraser (born 24 April 1963) is a Scottish former professional footballer, who played for Rangers, East Fife, Berwick Rangers and Cowdenbeath in the Scottish Football League. He also played in Australia for three years, representing Green Gully, Heidelberg United and Fawkner Blues.  After ending his football career in the early 1990s, Fraser became involved in property investment. He co-founded property investment business McEwan Fraser, which subsequently became a main sponsor of Hibernian, as well as McEwan Fraser Legal, an estate agency based in Edinburgh.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP]  Giuseppe Castelli (born September 14, 1919 in Milan) was an Italian professional football player.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP]  Giuseppe Castelli (born 1919), Italian former footballer ; Giuseppe Castelli (footballer) (born 1919), Italian professional football player. ; Guido Castelli (born 1965), Italian lawyer and politician ; Henri Castelli, artistic name of Henri Lincoln Fernandes Nascimento (born 1978), Brazilian actor and model ; Ignaz Franz Castelli, (1780–1862), Austrian dramatist ; Irene Castelli (born 1983), Italian gymnast ; Jeffrey W. Castelli, CIA officer ; Juan José Castelli (1764–1812), Member of the first national government of Argentina ; Laura Castelli (born 1986), Italian politician ; Leo Castelli (1907–1999), American art dealer ; Luciano Castelli (born 1951), Swiss painter, graphic artist, photographer, sculptor
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP]  Born in Naples, Italy, Castelluccio moved with his family to Paterson, New Jersey, when he was three years old. In 1982, Castelluccio was awarded a full scholarship to the School of Visual Arts in New York City, where he earned a BFA in painting and media arts. Prior to winning the scholarship, he received an opportunity to create a painting for actor George Burns.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP]  Luciano Castelli (born 28 September 1951 in Lucerne) is a Swiss painter, graphic artist, photographer, sculptor and musician.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP]  Giuseppe Casti was born in Carbonia, Italy in 1964.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP] Giuseppe Castelli (footballer)  Giuseppe Castelli (born September 14, 1919 in Milan) was an Italian professional football player.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP] Giuseppe Castelli  Giuseppe Castelli (5 October 1907 – 19 December 1942) was an Italian athlete who competed mainly in the 100 metres.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP] Castelli (surname)  Castelli is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP] Filomena Delli Castelli  Filomena Delli Castelli (28 September 1916 – 22 December 2010) was an Italian politician. She was elected to the Constituent Assembly in 1946 as one of the first group of women parliamentarians in Italy. She was subsequently elected to the Chamber of Deputies in 1948, serving (with the exception of a six-month spell in 1953) until 1958.
In what city was Giuseppe Castelli born? [SEP] Leo Castelli  Leo Castelli (born Leo Krausz; September 4, 1907 – August 21, 1999) was an Italian-American art dealer who originated the contemporary art gallery system.  His gallery showcased contemporary art for five decades. Among the movements which Castelli showed were Surrealism, Abstract Expressionism, Neo-Dada, Pop Art, Op Art, Color field painting, Hard-edge painting, Lyrical Abstraction, Minimal Art, Conceptual Art, and Neo-expressionism.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]  Bloom was born in New York City on July 11, 1930, the son of Paula (née Lev) and William Bloom. He lived in the Bronx at 1410 Grand Concourse. He was raised as an Orthodox Jew in a Yiddish-speaking household, where he learned literary Hebrew; he learned English at the age of six. Bloom's father, a garment worker, was born in Odessa and his mother, a homemaker, near Brest Litovsk in what is today Belarus. Harold had three older sisters and an older brother; he was the last living sibling. As a boy, Bloom read Hart Crane's Collected Poems, a collection that
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]  Reetz was born in Hirschberg, Lower Silesia, in 1943 and immigrated to the US in 1952. After studying chemistry at Washington University and the University of Michigan, he returned to Germany to obtain his Ph.D. under Ulrich Schöllkopf at the University of Göttingen. He subsequently worked as a postdoctoral researcher at the University of Marburg where he completed his habilitation in 1978. After two years at the University of Bonn, he returned to Marburg as full professor in 1980. In 1991 he was appointed director of the Max Planck Institute for Coal Research in Mülheim, a position that he held until 2011.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]  Harold Rosenberg was born on February 2, 1906, in Brooklyn, New York. After studying at the City College of New York from 1923 to 1924, he received his LL.B. from Brooklyn Law School (then a unit of St. Lawrence University) in 1927. Later, he often said he was "educated on the steps of the New York Public Library." Rosenberg embraced a bohemian lifestyle upon contracting osteomyelitis shortly after attaining his degree; the condition ultimately necessitated his use of a cane for the rest of his life.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]  Bernhard Hugo Goetz was born in the Kew Gardens neighborhood of New York City's Queens borough on November 7, 1947, the son of Gertrude (née Karlsberg) and Bernhard Willard Goetz, Sr. His parents were German immigrants who met in the U.S. His father was Lutheran; his mother, who was Jewish, converted to Lutheranism. While growing up, Goetz lived with his parents and three older siblings in Upstate New York, where his father ran a dairy farm and a bookbinding business. At the age of 12, he was sent to Switzerland, where he and his sister attended boarding schools. Goetz returned to the United States in 1965 for college, and earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering and nuclear engineering from New York University. By this time, the family had relocated to Orlando, Florida; Goetz joined them and worked at his father's residential development business. He was briefly married. After his divorce, he moved back to New York City, where he started an electronics business out of his Greenwich Village apartment.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]  Harold Bell was born on October 5, 1919, in Union City, New Jersey. He was one of three sons born to his parents, David and Hilda Rosenthal Belsky. His father worked as an embroiderer. Bell served in the United States Navy during World War II. He moved to Los Angeles, California, following the end of the war.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP] Harold Reetz  Harold F. Reetz Jr. (March 10, 1948 – August 15, 2022) was an American agronomist.  Section::::Early life and education. He was born in 1948 at Watseka, Illinois, and grew up on a dairy/grain farm in the east central part of the state. After receiving his B.S. degree in 1970 at the University of Illinois, he earned his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees at Purdue University in crop physiology and ecology.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP] Watseka, Illinois  Watseka is a city in and the county seat of Iroquois County, Illinois, United States. It is located approximately west of the Illinois-Indiana state line on U.S. Route 24.  The population of Watseka was 5,255 according to the 2010 census, which was a 7.3 percent decrease from the 2000 census.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP] List of University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign people  This is a list of notable people affiliated with the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, a public research university in Illinois.
In what city was Harold Reetz born? [SEP]
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP]  Fernand Cornez (19 November 1907 in Paris – 7 December 1997 in Saint-Avertin) was a French professional road bicycle racer. In 1933, he won a stage in the Tour de France and in the Giro d'Italia.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP]  He was born in Louhans, Saône-et-Loire, France. His family kept an inn where he started cooking when he was ten. He moved to Paris and worked at some of the capital's best restaurants before working with Paul Bocuse's father at the in Évian-les-Bains.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP]  Fernand Smeets, better known under the name Fernand Faniard, 9 December 1894 in Saint-Josse-ten-Noode – 3 August 1955 in Paris) was a tenor of the Paris Opera, born in Brussels and naturalized French in 1949. He was the son of "cafeteria owner" Lambert Leopold Jules Steems and Maria Joseph Marguerite Fagniard. Fernand's stage name refers to his mother's surname as a tribute. He received his musical training at the Royal Conservatory of Brussels with Laurent Swofs. His vocal range at the time was baritone. In that capacity he could also be seen and heard in the Royal Monnaie Theatre in Brussels. He left that theatre in 1926 for the Flemish Opera in Antwerp and was retrained as a tenor
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP] 1933 ; Tour de France: ; Winner stage 10 ; Giro d'Italia: ; Winner stage 11 ; 1934 ; GP de Cannes
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP]  Ary Fernandes (March 31, 1931 – August 29, 2010) was a Brazilian playwright, actor, producer and filmmaker. He was born in São Paulo.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP] Fernand Cornez  Fernand Cornez (19 November 1907 in Paris – 7 December 1997 in Saint-Avertin) was a French professional road bicycle racer.  In 1933, he won a stage in the Tour de France and in the Giro d'Italia.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP]
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP] 1997 in France  Events from the year 1997 in France.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP] 1907 in France  Events from the year 1907 in France.
In what city was Fernand Cornez born? [SEP] Deaths in December 1997  The following is a list of notable deaths in December 1997.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP]  Volodymyr Kravets (Володимир Олексійович Кравець) (3 May 1930, Uman Raion – 22 July 2011) was a Ukrainian diplomat who served as Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ukrainian SSR.
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP] Andriy Kravets (born 1990), Ukrainian Go player ; Alla Kravets (born 1973), Ukrainian volleyball player ; Artem Kravets (born 1989), Ukrainian footballer ; Darya Kravets (born 1994), Ukrainian footballer ; Inessa Kravets (born 1966), Ukrainian athlete ; Jean-Jacques Kravetz (born 1947), French musician ; Lyudmyla Kravets (1923–2015), Soviet-Ukrainian combat medic ; Marina Kravets (born 1984), Russian actress and singer ; Mikhail Kravets (born 1963), Russian ice hockey player ; Olena Kravets (born 1977), Ukrainian actress and TV host ; Vasyl Kravets (born 1997), Ukrainian footballer ; Volodymyr Kravets (1930–2011), Ukrainian diplomat ; Volodymyr Kravets (born 1981), Ukrainian boxer Kravets is a Ukrainian-language occupational surname meaning "tailor". The surname may refer to:
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP]  In 1953-1954 - he was Instructor of the Kyiv City Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine. In 1956-1961 - he was Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Department of Marxism–Leninism Kharkiv Aviation Institute, then Umansky Agricultural Institute. In 1961-1965 - He worked as a consultant of the Department of Science and Culture of the Central Committee of the Communist Party. In 1965-1967 - Senior Lecturer of Party History of the Kyiv National University of Construction and Architecture. In 1967-1971 - he was Counsellor Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ukrainian SSR. In 1971-1979 - he was in office Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs of the
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP]  Born in Lviv, Kravets is a product of the FC Karpaty Lviv School System. His first trainer was Vasyl Leskiv. He made his debut for FC Karpaty entering as a second-half substitute against FC Chornomorets Odesa on 10 May 2015 in Ukrainian Premier League. On 24 January 2017, Kravets was loaned to Spanish Segunda División side CD Lugo until the end of the season, with a buyout clause. 12 June, Lugo announced that buyout option was activated. On 13 January 2019, Kravets agreed to a four-and-a-half-year contract with La Liga side CD Leganés. He made his debut in the competition on 24 February, starting in a 1–1 home draw against Valencia CF. On 15 January 2020, after appearing in only one cup match for Lega during the campaign, Kravets was loaned to his former side Lugo until June. On 11 September 2020, Kravets moved to Lech Poznań on a season long loan. The following 13 July, he moved to Sporting de Gijón also in a temporary deal.
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP]  Olena Maliashenko was born in Kryvyi Rih in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, she is the only daughter of Yurii Viktorovych Maliashenko and Nadiia Fedorivna Maliashenko. She is best known internationally as the executive director of the Kvartal-95 television and studio production studio since 2000. On 21 September 2002, she married the producer Serhii Kravets and adopted the surname of her husband. From this marriage, they have three children: Mariia, born on February 24, 2003 and twins Ivan and Kateryna, born on August 15, 2016. On the occasion of her second pregnancy, she launched her own line of specialized clothing for pregnant women under the name "OneSize by Lena Kravets".
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP] Volodymyr Kravets  Volodymyr Kravets (born May 31, 1981 in Krasnoarmiisk, Donetsk Oblast) is a male boxer from Ukraine, who competed for his Eastern European country at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. There he was stopped in the first round of the men's lightweight division (– 60 kg) by Pakistan's Asghar Ali Shah.  Kravets qualified for the Athens Games by ending up in second place at the 4th AIBA European 2004 Olympic Qualifying Tournament in Baku, Azerbaijan. In the final he lost to Russia's Murat Khrachev.
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP] Volodymyr Kravets (diplomat)  Volodymyr Kravets () (3 May 1930, Uman Raion – 22 July 2011) was a Ukrainian diplomat who served as Permanent Representative of Ukraine to the United Nations and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Ukrainian SSR.
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP] Kravets  Kravets is a Ukrainian-language and Yiddish-language occupational surname meaning "tailor".  The surname may refer to:
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP]
In what city was Volodymyr O. Kravets born? [SEP] Lyudmila Kravets  Lyudmila Stepanovna Kravets (, ; 7 February 1923 – 23 May 2015) was a medic in the 63rd Guards Rifle Regiment during World War II. For her actions in the war, she was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union on 31 May 1945.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]  Yinka Ayenuwa (born 2 May 1986 in Warri) is a Nigerian weightlifter. He competed in the men's 69 kg event at the 2014 Commonwealth Games where he won a silver medal. In 2015, he won 3 silver medals at the African Games.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]  Elujoba was born and raised in Lagos, Nigeria to civil servant parents. He has an Engineering degree from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, and in 2020 received an MFA in Art Writing from the School of Visual Arts, New York.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]  Yinka Shonibare was born in London, England, on 9 August 1962, the son of Olatunji Shonibare and Laide Shonibare. When he was three years old, his family moved to Lagos, Nigeria, where his father practised law. When he was 17 years old, Shonibare returned to Britain to do his A-levels at Redrice School. At the age of 18, he contracted transverse myelitis, an inflammation of the spinal cord, which resulted in a long-term physical disability where one side of his body is paralysed. Shonibare went on to study Fine Art first at Byam Shaw School of Art (now Central Saint Martins College of Art and Design) and then at Goldsmiths, University of London, where he
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]  Yinka Shonibare (born 9 August 1962) is a British-Nigerian artist living in the United Kingdom. His work explores cultural identity, colonialism and post-colonialism within the contemporary context of globalisation. A hallmark of his art is the brightly coloured Ankara fabric he uses. Because he has a physical disability that paralyses one side of his body, Shonibare uses assistants to make works under his direction.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]  Yinka Durosinmi was born into the royal family of Osolu Kingdom in Irewe, a town in Ojo, Lagos State. He attended his basic education in Apapa Baptist Secondary School, Apapa and his secondary school education at Awori College, Ojo and went on to obtain his National Diploma and Higher National Diploma in Business Administration from Lagos State College of Science and Technology, Isolo now Lagos State Polytechnic. He also holds a Masters in Legal Studies, Administration Law and Public Policy from Lagos State University, Ojo.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP] Yinka Ayenuwa  Yinka Ayenuwa (born 2 May 1986 in Warri) is a Nigerian weightlifter. He competed in the men's 69 kg event at the 2014 Commonwealth Games where he won a silver medal. In 2015, he won 3 silver medals at the African Games.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP] Yinka  Yinka is a unisex name in the Yoruba language. It is a contraction of "Yimika" meaning ""surround me."" It is also a diminutive form of names such as "Adeyinka" (crown/royalty surrounds me), "Olayinka" (wealth surrounds me), "Akinyinka" (warriors/valour surrounds me), "Oluyinka" (God/my lord surrounds me), etc.  People named Yinka include: Yinka Ilori Artist  Yinka Bokinini Presenter and radio dj
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP] Ndidi Winifred  Ndidi Winifred (born 22 September 1988) is a Nigerian weightlifter. She competed in the women's 58 kg event at the 2014 Commonwealth Games where she won a silver medal.
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP]
In what city was Yinka Ayenuwa born? [SEP] in Lagos to explore becoming a visual artist. She went to meet Abiodun Olaku a renowned Nigerian painter. Her first love was actually painting and sculpting. She then got caught up in the ambiance of the national theatre. She was later commissioned by the late Bassey Effiong (theatre director) to help him paint the stage for a production of Marriage of Anansewa by Efua Sutherland. It was during this project that she experienced how her 2-dimensional painting dreams began to evolve with their own movement and could take on a life of their own. During her visits to the National
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP]  Phil Williams, alias The Drill, (born July 12, 1977) is an American cruiserweight southpaw professional boxer. Williams was born in Queens, New York City. He moved to Minneapolis, Minnesota as a child, and still lives in Minneapolis where he works as a barber.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP]  Williams was born in Tredegar in the industrial valleys of south Wales and grew up in Bargoed, another industrial town. He was educated at Lewis School, Pengam and Clare College, Cambridge, and became a leading space scientist. He was appointed Professor of Solar Terrestrial Physics at the University College of Wales, Aberystwyth, and simultaneously became economic spokesman for Plaid Cymru.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP]  Philip Williams (born 7 February 1963) is a footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Crewe Alexandra, Wigan Athletic and Chester City.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] For other people of the same name, see Phil Williams  Philip Williams (born 5 April 1958, Birkenhead) is an English former footballer. A product of Chester's youth policy, Williams made a solitary appearance in The Football League for the club when wearing the number nine shirt during a 0–0 draw at home to Preston North End on 11 September 1976. He did not make any further first-team appearances for Chester and later played for Cray Wanderers.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP]  Born in San Leandro, California, he grew up in Hayward - Union City, California.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] Phil Williams (footballer, born 1963)  Philip Williams (born 7 February 1963) is a footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Crewe Alexandra, Wigan Athletic and Chester City.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] Phil Williams (presenter)  Phil Williams (born 2 August 1974) is a British radio news reporter and presenter who worked for 18 years on BBC Radio 5 Live until 2019.  A graduate of the BBC trainee reporters scheme, Williams soon joined the corporation's Greater Manchester Radio (GMR) station as a newsreader and presenter. His time at the station included reporting in the immediate aftermath of a Provisional IRA bombing in the city.  Three years in a similar role at BBC Radio 1 followed before Williams transferred to Radio 5 Live, initially as an entertainment reporter. He formerly hosted the "Weekend Breakfast" show, firstly with Anna Foster, and then with Eleanor Oldroyd on Saturdays and with Caroline Barker on Sundays. From 13 May 2013 he switched to the late-night show – presenting the show from Mondays to Wednesdays, 10:30pm1am, and also on Thursdays 10pm1am, when BBC One's political discussion show "Question Time" was off-season. He left the station after presenting his final programme on 8 May 2019. In November 2019, he stood in for OJ Borg on BBC Radio 2's late night show.  Williams previously presented a show on commercial station XFM London, running from 10am to 2pm every Sunday.  Beginning in June 2020, he started presenting an evening show, Monday to Thursday, on the digital radio station Times Radio. He left the station in June 2022.  Williams supports Aston Villa F.C.  Phil covers shows for BBC Radio 2
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] Phil Williams (Alabama senator)  Phillip W. Williams Jr. (born March 20, 1965) is an American politician, radio show host and attorney from the state of Alabama. A member of the Republican Party, Williams served in the Alabama Senate from 2010 until 2018, representing the 10th district, encompassing Etowah County and parts of Cherokee County. Since leaving the state legislature, Williams has served as a policy director for the Alabama Policy Institute and hosts a conservative radio program, "Rightside Radio".
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] Phil Williams (Alabama representative)  Phil Williams is an American politician and entrepreneur from the state of Alabama. He served as a Republican member of the Alabama House of Representatives representing the 6th District, serving from 2009 to 2018.
In what city was Phil Williams born? [SEP] Phil Williams  Phil Williams may refer to:
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]  James M. Bingham (February 3, 1828January 8, 1885) was an American lawyer and Republican politician. He served as the 13th Lieutenant Governor of Wisconsin and the 20th speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]  James Bingham (23 January 1925 – 8 December 2009) was a Belfast-based painter. He spent thirty years in London working as a signwriter with his brother. In 1967 he returned to Belfast where he met fellow Belfast artist Daniel O'Neill. They became friends and from 1968 he worked with O'Neill in his studio until O'Neill's death in 1974. Bingham was born in Belfast, Northern Ireland and died there in 2009, after a long illness.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]  Bingham was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on December 4, 1841. He graduated from Jefferson College in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania, in 1862, where he became a member of the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity. He received a LLD degree in 1902 from Washington and Jefferson College in Washington, Pennsylvania.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]  George Caleb Bingham (March 20, 1811 – July 7, 1879) was an American artist, soldier and politician known in his lifetime as "the Missouri Artist". Initially a Whig, he was elected as a delegate to the Missouri legislature before the American Civil War where he fought against the extension of slavery westward. During that war, although born in Virginia, Bingham was dedicated to the Union cause and became captain of a volunteer company which helped keep the state from joining the Confederacy, and then served four years as Missouri's Treasurer. During his final years, Bingham held several offices in Kansas City, while also serving as Missouri's Adjutant General. His paintings of American frontier life along the Missouri River exemplify the Luminist style.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]  George Greenwood Bingham (November 25, 1855 &ndash; October 4, 1924) was an American judge and legal educator in the state of Oregon. A native of Wisconsin, his family immigrated to Oregon in his teens, though he returned to the Midwest for his legal education. Bingham served as the second dean at the Willamette University College of Law and was also a judge for Multnomah County after previously serving as a district attorney for Salem and the state. His former home in Salem, the Dr. Luke A. Port House, is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP] James M. Bingham  James M. Bingham (February 3, 1828January 8, 1885) was an American lawyer and Republican politician. He served as the 13th lieutenant governor of Wisconsin, the 20th speaker of the Wisconsin State Assembly, and the 13th mayor of Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP] James Bingham (Indiana politician)  James Bingham (March 16, 1861 – August 19, 1940) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the nineteenth Indiana Attorney General from January 1, 1907, to January 1, 1911.
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP]
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP] Bingham (surname)  Bingham is a surname of English origin, ultimately deriving from the toponym of Melcombe Bingham in Dorset. The name was taken to Ireland in the 16th century, by Richard Bingham, a native of Dorset who was appointed governor of Connaught in 1584.  There is another Bingham in  Nottinghamshire.  People surnamed Bingham include:
In what city was James M. Bingham born? [SEP] Sam Fifield  Samuel S. Fifield (June 24, 1839February 17, 1915)<ref>
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]  Gustavo Grondona (born 16 June 1968 in Buenos Aires) was an Argentine football midfielder and is currently the assistant manager of Colo Colo football club from Chile. Gustavo Grondona is the son of Héctor Grodona, brother of Julio Humberto Grondona. He made his playing debut in 1989 for the club founded by his father, Arsenal de Sarandí. Unlike his father Gustavo managed to step up to play at the highest level, appearing in the Argentine Primera División for Independiente, Huracán and Deportivo Español in the 1990s. In 1998, he joined Peruvian club Universitario de Deportes where he was part of three championship winning squads between 1998 and 2000. After a short spell with Sporting Cristal in 2001, he returned to Argentina to play out his career with Arsenal during their first ever season in the Argentine Primera.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]  Gustavo Guillermo Moncayo Rincón, popularly known as "'El caminante por la paz" (Spanish for "the Walker for Peace"), (born on November 29, 1952 in Santiago, Putumayo ) is a Colombian teacher who in 2007 walked 1,186 km from his hometown Sandoná, in the department of Nariño in the south of Colombia to the capital city Bogotá, seeking to promote an agreement for the release of his son Pablo Emilio who had been a prisoner of the guerrilla group FARC since 1997.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]  He was born on April 25, 1930, in the Morropón province, Chulucanas in the Piura region. His parents were Gustavo Mohme and Stella Llona. He was a descendant of the scientist Scipión Llona. After attending high school in Lima, at the San Andrés school (Anglo-Peruvian College), he studied at the National University of Engineering from which he graduated, in 1955, with the title of civil engineer.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]   Mariano Grondona (born 19 October 1932, in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine lawyer, sociologist, political scientist, essayist and commentator. He has been a journalist for several decades, appearing in print media and on television, and has written several books. He has also taught in several universities, both in Argentina and abroad.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]  He was born in Jalisco, Mexico in 1953 and moved with his family to Rutherford in the Napa Valley in 1957.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP] Gustavo Grondona  Gustavo Grondona (born 16 June 1968 in Buenos Aires) was an Argentine football midfielder and is currently the assistant manager of Colo Colo football club from Chile.  Gustavo Grondona is the son of Héctor Grodona, brother of Julio Humberto Grondona. He made his playing debut in 1989 for the club founded by his father, Arsenal de Sarandí.  Unlike his father Gustavo managed to step up to play at the highest level, appearing in the Argentine Primera División for Independiente, Huracán and Deportivo Español in the 1990s.  In 1998, he joined Peruvian club Universitario de Deportes where he was part of three championship winning squads between 1998 and 2000.   After a short spell with Sporting Cristal in 2001, he returned to Argentina to play out his career with Arsenal during their first ever season in the Argentine Primera.
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]
In what city was Gustavo Grondona born? [SEP]
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]  Ricardo Guillermo Maliandi (born in La Plata, 1930, died 12 February 2015) Argentine writer and philosopher, devoted to ethics. He was professor in many Argentine universities and researcher in CONICET. Doctor in Philosophy for Mainz University, Germany. He received Konex Prize in 1986 for his labor on ethics. As well he is chairman of Argentine Association of Ethical Researches, fellow of National Academy of Sciences and honorary member of Argentine Association of Bioethics. His researches started on axiology, especially the works of Nicolai Hartmann, from who he has translated many books. Afterward he made an approach to Discourse Ethics and became friend of one of his founders, Karl-Otto Apel. From many years he works in an original propose which he call "ethics of convergence".
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]  Zulueta was born in Havana, Cuba and grew up in Miami, Florida. Since 1985 he has lived/worked in New York City and Miami. Zulueta studied Visual Art, Museum Studies, and Arts Policy at graduate school at New York University where he was selected to be the distinguished Helbein Scholar. Dr. Zulueta earned a M.F.A. in Visual Arts and a Ph.D. in Cinema and Interactive Media Studies, both with Academic Merit Honors at the University of Miami where he was named a McKnight Doctoral Fellow.
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]  Born in Northern California's Bay Area in 1967 to a Panamanian father of Chinese descent and an American mother, Fong relocated at a young age with his family to Mexico City where he has lived for the majority of his life. He was a resident of Brooklyn, New York for a few years and then relocated to Mexico City to continue working mainly with band La Barranca.
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]  Cristina Ambrosini (editor) ''Ética. Convergencias y divergencias''. Homenaje a Ricardo Maliandi, Remedios de Escalada, Ediciones de la UNLa, 2009, 443 pp., ISBN: 978-987-1326-38-9. Michelini, Dorando; José San Martín y Jutta Wester (editores) Ética, discurso, conflictividad. Homenaje a Ricardo Maliandi, Universidad Nacional de Río Cuarto, Argentina, 1995, ISBN: 978-950-665-019-3.
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]  Ricardo Migliorisi,  (January 6, 1948 – June 14, 2019) born in Asunción, Paraguay, on January 6, 1948 to Isolina Salsa Ferraris and Salvador Migliorisi Tumino, of Italian origin. Migliorisi was a Paraguayan painter, costume designer, scenery designer and architect. Migliorisi won national and international awards. Migliorisi showed his work in many countries including The United States of America and Europe.
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP] Ricardo Maliandi  Ricardo Guillermo Maliandi (born in La Plata, 1930, died 12 February 2015) Argentine writer and philosopher, devoted to ethics.  He was professor in many Argentine universities and researcher in CONICET. Doctor in Philosophy for Mainz University, Germany. He received Konex Prize in 1986 for his labor on ethics.  As well he is chairman of Argentine Association of Ethical Researches, fellow of National Academy of Sciences and honorary member of Argentine Association of Bioethics.  His researches started on axiology, especially the works of Nicolai Hartmann, from who he has translated many books. Afterward he made an approach to Discourse Ethics and became friend of one of his founders, Karl-Otto Apel. From many years he works in an original propose which he call "ethics of convergence".
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP]
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP] Ricardo Lemvo Ricardo Lemvo (born September 3, 1957) is a singer of Angolan descent who lives in Los Angeles, California. His music is a blend of African soukous, kizomba, samba and Cuban salsa. Lemvo grew up in Kinshasa, Democratic Republic of the Congo, where he first encountered and enjoyed Cuban music. He moved to the United States at age 15 to continue his education. He graduated from Lawndale High School and later from California State University, Los Angeles with a bachelor's degree in Political Science. His family is from M'banza-Kongo in northern Angola. His grandfather, João Mantantu Dundulu N'lemvo, was
In what city was Ricardo Maliandi born? [SEP] Jaar received Chile's National Prize for Plastic Arts in 2013. Alfredo's son Nicolas Jaar is a musician and composer. Alfredo Jaar Alfredo Jaar (born 1956) is a Chilean-born artist, architect, and filmmaker who lives in New York City. He was born in 1956 in Santiago de Chile. From age 5 to 16, he lived in Martinique before moving back to Chile. He is mostly known as an installation artist, often incorporating photography and covering socio-political issues and war - the best known perhaps being the 6-year-long "The Rwanda Project" about the 1994 Rwandan genocide. He has also made numerous public
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]  Annika Billstam (born 8 March 1976) is a Swedish orienteering competitor living in Uppsala. Formerly competing for OK Linné in Uppsala, Annika moved to Stockholm and switched to IFK Lidingö in the winter of 2007 before switching back to OK Linné in January 2012. She earned a silver medal in the relay at the 2007 World Orienteering Championships in Kyiv. She followed that with bronze medals in the long distance and the relay at the 2008 World Orienteering Championships in the Czech Republic. In 2012 Billstam won the Swedish mountain marathon Vértex Fjällmaraton.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]  Annika Billström (born 7 April 1956 in Härnösand, Västernorrland County) is a Swedish social democratic politician. She was the first female mayor of Stockholm, serving between 2004 and 2006.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]  Annica Edstam (born 22 March 1969) in Stockholm, is a Swedish actress and singer.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]  Billström's background was as the chief financial officer of Handels, the Swedish Commercial Employees' Union between 1987 and 1994. She was elected to the Stockholm City Council serving as road commissioner in 1994–98 and commissioner in opposition from 1998 to 2002.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]  Annicka Engblom (born 1977 in Västerås, Sweden), is a Swedish politician of the Moderate Party who has been a member of the Riksdag since 2006. In addition to her committee assignments, Engblom has been a member of the Swedish delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) since 2017, where she has served on the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Immunities and Institutional Affairs (since 2020); the Committee on Culture, Science, Education and Media (since 2019); the Sub-Committee on Media and Information Society (since 2019); Committee on Equality and Non-Discrimination (2017-2019).
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP] Annika Billstam  Annika Billstam (born 8 March 1976) is a Swedish orienteering competitor living in Uppsala. Formerly competing for OK Linné in Uppsala, Annika moved to Stockholm and switched to IFK Lidingö in the winter of 2007 before switching back to OK Linné in January 2012. She earned a silver medal in the relay at the 2007 World Orienteering Championships in Kyiv. She followed that with bronze medals in the long distance and the relay at the 2008 World Orienteering Championships in the Czech Republic.  In 2012 Billstam won the Swedish mountain marathon Vértex Fjällmaraton.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP] Thierry Gueorgiou  Thierry Gueorgiou (; born 30 March 1979) is a French orienteer who has won more than 20 gold medals in international competitions, including the World Orienteering Championships (WOC) middle distance event eight times: 2003–2005, 2007–2009, 2011 and 2017. In November 2016 it was announced he will become the Swedish national team head coach following the 2017 World Championships.
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP] Sofie Johansson  Sofie Johansson (born 1 July 1985) is a Swedish orienteering competitor. She won a bronze medal in the "relay" event at the 2008 World Orienteering Championships in Olomouc, together with Annika Billstam and Helena Jansson. She finished 6th in the "long distance" at the same championship.<ref name=sof/>
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP]
In what city was Annika Billstam born? [SEP] List of orienteers  This is a list of all orienteering competitors found in Wikipedia and notable within the orienteering sport.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]  Eric Defoort (27 June 1943 in Ypres – 16 or 17 December 2016). was a Flemish Belgian politician and president of the European Free Alliance. Between 2007 and 2009, Defoort was the president of the Flemish Popular Movement (Vlaamse Volksbeweging - VVB), a non-party linked movement advocating Flemish autonomy. In 1982 he became the chief librarian and a professor of history at the Catholic University of Brussels. At the EFA-General Assembly in Venice, March 2010, he was elected the new President of the European Free Alliance. As historian he studied in depth the history of nationalism and published on topics like identity. Defoort was a member of the Nieuw-Vlaamse Alliantie (N-VA), a party that became a full member of EFA in 2010. They supported his candidacy. As president, he saw to the organisation and strategy of the European Free Alliance.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]  Kris Defoort is a Belgian avant-garde jazz pianist and composer. He was born on 30 November 1959 in Bruges. He also teaches at the Brussels conservatory. His brother is Bart Defoort (saxophonist and composer). He entered in 1978 the Antwerp conservatory to study early music and recorder. He graduated 4 years later and he then decided to study contemporary music and jazz at the Liège conservatory. Frederic Rzewski, Henri Pousseur and Garrett List were among his teachers. In 1986 Defoort released his first recording with his quintet Diva Smiles. The next year, he went to New York to study at New York Long Island University, Brooklyn. He recorded there with Vincent Herring and Jack DeJohnette. On his return in 1991, he founded his own ensemble named K.D.'s Pretty Big Basement Party. The following year, he recorded the first CD for
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]  Eric de Kuyper was born and spent his early childhood in Brussels and then, as he put it, his teenage years of choices swayed by "faith, sexuality, and the future" in Antwerp. According to him, his family mostly spoke Dutch while they "thought in French and felt the more subtle emotions" in that language. After graduating from Notre Dame Jesuit High School, he returned to the city of his birth to study in the Department of Audiovisual and Dramatic Arts and Techniques (Rits), Erasmus University College Brussels, and took courses in philosophy and mass communication at the Free University of Brussels. While in college, he began to work as a producer at the Flemish Radio and Television Network.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]  Tinkler was born in Roodepoort.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]  Born in Rhode Island in 1957 and raised in New York City until the age of 8, Eric V. Goode relocated with his family to California. He is the second of five children born to Marilyn Goode, a naturalist and conservationist, and Fredrick Goode, a painter and teacher. He has lived in New York City since 1977. Eric began his career as an artist, educated at the Academy of Art University in San Francisco, and Parsons School of Design. Much of his early work was displayed in group shows with other upcoming artists of the day, the earliest in 1981 which was curated by Keith Haring. He continued to make and show his art throughout the 1980s and into the early 1990s. In 1983, Goode formed the nightclub Area.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP] Defoort  Defoort is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP] Fernand Brouez  Fernand Brouez (1861, in Wasmes – 1900, in Brussels) was the founder and publisher of "La Société Nouvelle" (The New Society). He initially edited the magazine with Belgian-born Arthur James, whom he met at the Université Libre de Bruxelles', and after 1889 with various other individuals.   The second son of Jules Brouez and Victorine Sapin, Fernand and his older brother Paul both enrolled at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, where Fernand initially failed at his studies. Switching between philosophy, law and medicine, he had still not placed his candidacy for a doctorate by the age of 29. Yet he managed to surround himself with the elite of Belgian, international intellectuals and artists of the time. He believed in socialism and social conscience. On 20 November 1884, the first edition of "La Société Nouvelle" was published, financed by his father Jules Brouez. It would become the most important magazine on social issues, arts, sciences and literature of the epoch. Fernand Brouez's contribution to French speaking Europe remains unparalleled. He fell victim to syphilis, either by sexual contact, his future wife being a possible silent carrier given her past, or according to several credible sources, from a cut at a course in anatomy when studying medicine. In 1896 he married Cornelia Hubertina Doff (1858-1942), the later Neel Doff. The character of André in her second book, "Keetje", is based upon Fernand Brouez. Fernand Brouez was buried in the Brouez family vault at the Ixelles Cemetery on 3 July 1900.
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP]
In what city was Eric Defoort born? [SEP] Erik Vermeulen  Erik Vermeulen (born 15 October 1959 in Ypres, Belgium) is a Belgian jazz pianist. He entered the Belgian jazz scene when he was 22 with his trio. At the time, it featured Heyn Van de Geyn on bass and Dré Pallemaerts on drums. Soon after that, he started performing with different jazz bands and musicians including the Frank Vaganée Quartet, Erwin Vann Quartet and Peter Hertmans.  He performed with international stars like Slide Hampton, Clark Terry, Joe Lovano, Steve Grossman, David Schnitter, Art Farmer, Bob Mover, Teddy Edwards, Toots Thielemans, Philip Catherine, Michael Moore and Barre Phillips.  He was often a soloist with the BRT jazz orchestra. In 1998, he represented Belgium in the European Radio Union Big Band in Stockholm.  During his career, the musicians from his trio have changed: Jean-Louis Rassinfosse and Félix Simtaine, then Philippe Aerts and Dré Pallemaerts, Otti Van Der Werf and Eric Thielemans.  Since 1995, Erik has toured and recorded with the following bands: Bart Defoort Quartet, Ben Sluijs Quartet, Manu Hermia Quartet and Marta Mus.  Since 1995, he has been a member of the Ben Sluijs Quartet, with whom he recorded four CDs. The last one, "Flying Circles", is part of the CD box "The Finest in Belgian Jazz" (released on De Werf).  In 1997, he recorded a CD with his band Icarus Consort (consisting of Erwin Vann, Pierre Bernard, Nicolas Thys and Stéphane Galland). The project emphasis is on improvisation.  Performing solo or in duo with Pierre Bernard, Daniel Stokart or Eric Thielemans, led to the founding of the "Groundwork" collective (2000).  In 2001, he recorded his CD "Songs of Minutes" with Salvatore La Rocca and Jan De Haas. In the same year, he recorded the album "Stones" with Ben Sluijs and made recordings with the project "Rrauw" of Eric Thielemans, with Barre Philips and Jean-Yves Evrard.  In 2002, he got to know Eric Surmenian (double bass) and Marek Patrman (drums). With this trio, he recorded "Inner City" from the CD box "The Finest in Belgian Jazz".  These days, Erik Vermeulen is teaching jazz piano at the Antwerp and Ghent conservatories.  In November 2003, he received the Belgian Golden Django for musician of the year.
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]  Reinaldo Dalcin is a Brazilian model, mechanical engineer and the winner of the Mister Brazil 2013. He was announced the winner of Mister Brazil during the annual event held in Rio de Janeiro on April 5 of that year. At 1.80m, he represented the Delta do Jacuí Islands and was represented Brazil in Mister World 2014 on June 15, 2014, an event to be held in Torbay, England.
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP] Notes
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]  René Pérez Joglar was born in a hospital in Hato Rey, a sector within the San Juan area. His mother, Flor Joglar de García, is a Puerto Rican actress who was part of the theatrical company called Teatro del 60 (Theater of the 60s). In her student years, she belonged to Juventud Independentista Universitaria or JIU (Independentist Youth of the University). René's father, Reinaldo Pérez Ramírez, is a labor lawyer, musician and writer. He studied in the Escuela Libre de Música (Free School of Music). When he was 17, together with Louis García, a trombonist and arranger, they founded the band, Latin Tempo. Reinaldo studied Political Science and Law at the University of Puerto Rico
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]  During the 2012 January transfer window, it was announced that Chinese Super League club Beijing Guoan had bought the striker from Saudi Club Al-Raed for a reported $2 million over two years. In January 2013, it was reported that Reinaldo was loaned to China League One side Chengdu Blades for one year. However, he eventually stayed in Beijing for the 2013 season.
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]  Born in Madrid, Spain in the family of a doctor, Reinaldo and his family moved to Puerto Rico when he was seven years old. At age 19, he joined the United States Navy, serving in Orlando, Florida and San Diego, California. As an adult, between December 1986 and March 1991, Rivera worked for the Joint Chiefs of Staff in Washington, D.C., attending the University of South Carolina, where he earned a degree in office administration. He previously resided in Graniteville, Columbia and Fayetteville, North Carolina, before settling in North Augusta. On Valentine's Day in 1993, he married Tammy Lisa Bonnette and had two children. By 1998 Rivera acquired a job as a tire inspector for the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in Aiken.
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP] Reinaldo Dalcin  Reinaldo Dalcin is a Brazilian model, mechanical engineer and the winner of the Mister Brazil 2013.  He was announced the winner of Mister Brazil during the annual event held in Rio de Janeiro on April 5 of that year. At 1.80m, he represented the Delta do Jacuí Islands and was represented Brazil in Mister World 2014 on June 15, 2014, an event to be held in Torbay, England.
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP] Dalcin  Dalcin is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]
In what city was Reinaldo Dalcin born? [SEP]
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]  Robert Anthony Cremins (February 15, 1906 – March 27, 2004) was a pitcher in Major League Baseball who played briefly for the Boston Red Sox during the 1927 season. Listed at 5ft 11in, 178 lb., Cremins batted and threw left-handed. He was born in Pelham Manor, New York. In four relief appearances, Cremins posted a 5.04 earned run average without a decision in 5 ⅓  Innings pitched. According to Baseball Almanac, Cremins faced Babe Ruth once and retired him on a grounder to first base. His career ended in 1928 due to an arm injury. Following his baseball career, Cremins served in the military during World War II. After that, he worked as town supervisor and tax receiver for Pelham. Cremins died in his homeland of Pelham at the age of 98. At the time of his death, he was the second-oldest surviving person having been a baseball player; Ray Cunningham is No. 1.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]  Cremins attended All Hallows High School in the Bronx, New York, where he was born to Irish immigrants from County Kerry. In 1966, he entered the University of South Carolina on a basketball scholarship, where he played under coach Frank McGuire. While Cremins was there, the South Carolina team won 61 games, with 17 losses, while Cremins was the starting point guard for three years for the Gamecocks. Cremins, known as "Cakes", was also the captain of South Carolina's 1969-70 team which went 25–3. He graduated from South Carolina in 1970 with a B.S. degree in marketing, before playing professional basketball for one year in Ecuador.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]  Cremin was born in Lisselton in north Kerry where he lived with wife Celia and their extended family. He died on 13 November 2014.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]  Koester was born in Wichita, Kansas, on October 30, 1932. He began collecting and trading classic 78 rpm records when he was in high school. He studied business and cinematography at Saint Louis University starting in 1951.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]  Robert Joseph Cremins Jr. (born July 4, 1947) is an American retired college basketball coach. He served as a head coach at Appalachian State, Georgia Tech, and, most recently, the College of Charleston.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP] Bobby Cremins  Robert Joseph Cremins Jr. (born July 4, 1947) is an American retired college basketball coach. He served as a head coach at Appalachian State, Georgia Tech, and, most recently, the College of Charleston.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP] Bob Cremins  Robert Anthony Cremins (February 15, 1906 – March 27, 2004) was a pitcher in Major League Baseball who played briefly for the Boston Red Sox during the 1927 season. Listed at , 178 lb., Cremins batted and threw left-handed. He was born in Pelham Manor, New York.  In four relief appearances, Cremins posted a 5.04 earned run average without a decision in 5 ⅓ Innings pitched. According to "Baseball Almanac", Cremins faced Babe Ruth once and retired him on a grounder to first base. His career ended in 1928 due to an arm injury.  Following his baseball career, Cremins served in the military during World War II. After that, he worked as town supervisor and tax receiver for Pelham.  Cremins died in his homeland of Pelham at the age of 98. At the time of his death, he was the second-oldest surviving person having been a baseball player; Ray Cunningham is No. 1.
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP]
In what city was Bob Cremins born? [SEP] Murder of Deanna Cremin  Deanna J. Cremin (March 26, 1978 – March 30, 1995) was a 17-year-old American girl from Somerville, Massachusetts, found sexually assaulted and strangled to death near her home. No charges have ever been filed. The case deeply shocked the local community, and a $70,000 reward is being offered for evidence leading to an arrest and prosecution.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]  Greg Windsperger (born December 30, 1951 in Minneapolis) is an American former ski jumper who competed in the 1976 Winter Olympics.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]  Born in 1972, Cartwright was raised in Frayser, Memphis – a neighborhood located on the north side of Memphis. His last two years of high school were spent in the suburbs after his family relocated outside of the city. His father was a factory worker, employed by the Firestone tire company in Memphis. With his parent's busy work schedule, Cartwright spent his summer vacations and weekends at his grandmother's Memphis home. This is where he was first introduced to musical instruments. At six years old, Cartwright already owned a portable record player, and was introduced to rock and roll music by
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]  Dave Gregson was born in Harrogate in 1973 and was brought up in Wetherby in West Yorkshire. He attended Crossley Street Primary School from 1978 to 1985 and then Wetherby High School from 1985 to 1992. He attended Askham Bryan College from 1992 to 1995 where he acquired a Higher National Diploma in Amenity Horticulture. He worked in nursery stock production and landscaping before a change of career path in 1996 when he started working for the Harrogate based charity, Yorkshire Association for Disabled People (now known as Disability Action Yorkshire). He was promoted to Supervisor and during this period qualified with an NVQ Level 4 Certificate in Management in Health and Social Care with Leeds Beckett University. Gregson secured a job with United Response in July 2011 as a Support Worker, assisting adults with disabilities in supported living and residential services. Since his dismissal from United Response in December 2018, Gregson has been a full-time carer for his parents and a campaigner and advocate for disability rights in the UK.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]  Windster was born in Rotterdam in the Netherlands. He also organizes youth football clinics on Bonaire.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]  Greg Rucka was born in San Francisco and raised on the Monterey Peninsula of California, in an area known to the locals as "Steinbeck Country". Rucka is Jewish. He first discovered comics at the Nob Hill Market in Salinas, California, where at age five, he first saw digest-sized black and white reprints of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's work on The Incredible Hulk, which he convinced his mother to buy. He began writing at a young age, and at age 10, he won a county-wide short story contest. He graduated from Vassar College with an BA in English. He then enrolled in the University of Southern California's Master of Professional Writing program, graduating with a Master of Fine Arts. He names Douglas Adams as his biggest influence. Before becoming a professional fiction writer he worked in a number of other occupations, including house painting, restaurant work, emergency medical technician, security guard, technical writer, and fight choreographer.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP] Greg Windsperger  Greg Windsperger (born December 30, 1951 in Minneapolis) is an American former ski jumper who competed in the 1976 Winter Olympics.
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]
In what city was Greg Windsperger born? [SEP]
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]  Matthew Moralee (21 February 1912−1991) was an English footballer who played as an inside forward in the Football League between the wars. Born in Barnburgh, near Doncaster, he played for Ormsby United before going to Denaby United, Gainsborough Trinity and Grimsby Town. Moralee arrived at Division 1 side Aston Villa in October 1936 where he played in 12 games scoring one goal. In November 1937, he moved to Leicester City who had just been promoted to Division 1. Scoring 6 goals, he played in 43 league and cup matches for them before the outbreak of the war. He was the son of The Wednesday and Doncaster Rovers player, also called Matt Moralee.
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]  Matthew Whitfield Moralee (1878−1962) was an English footballer who played as a half back for The Wednesday, Doncaster Rovers and Mexborough Town from 1902. Born in Newcastle upon Tyne, by 1901 he was living in Sheffield where he played for Division 1 side The Wednesday, who would later change their name to Sheffield Wednesday. Moralee was seen as being part of the "rare talent" of the reserve team though in a team that were Division 1 Champions in 1902−03 and 1903−04, he went on to only make a handful of first team appearances. For the 1904−05 season, he moved to play for Doncaster Rovers who had just been voted into Division 2 and who
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]  Matthew John Moralejo is an actor and was a recurring personality on the Nick GAS television network. He is regularly seen in 60 second featurettes highlighting lesser known sports from around the world called Global GAS. Moralejo was also the host of a short-lived revival of Nickelodeon's Wild and Crazy Kids in 2002. As an actor, he has had guest roles in Dawson's Creek, From the Earth to the Moon and The Mystery Files of Shelby Woo. Moralejo grew up in the Town and Country area of Tampa, Florida, and graduated A.P. Leto High School in 1993. He teaches international sports such as shovel racing, hydrospeeding, zorbing, pato, Kendo, reindeer racing, Futvolei, ice mountain climbing, dog sled racing, snow biking, outrigger canoeing, and sand tobogganing. Alongside Max Rubin, Moralejo co-hosted two seasons of the Ultimate Blackjack Tour on CBS, a blackjack tournament that used the Elimination Blackjack derivative created by poker player and World Series of Poker bracelet winner Russ Hamilton and featured a number of famous poker players and professional gamblers amongst it participants. Anthony Curtis, owner of the Las Vegas Advisor analysed all televised play and wrote the commentary delivered by Moralejo and Rubin.
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]  Kenneth Moraleda (born 17 April 1973) is an actor. Of Filipino descent, Moraleda was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, and has lived in Seattle, the Philippines, Los Angeles and is now based in Sydney, Australia. Moraleda trained at Australian Theatre for Young People (ATYP) before being accepted into the prestigious National Institute of Dramatic Art (NIDA) graduating with a Bachelor of Acting in 1995. Moraleda's first lead in a feature film is the role of Arun in Lucky Miles directed by Michael James Rowland. Other film roles include Monsod in Miramax's The Great Raid directed by John Dahl and Tony in the short film Sweet and
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]  on to have the joint worst season in English Football League history, ending up bottom with just 8 points from 34 games and failing to be re-elected. Moralee scored in 1 of his 32 League games for Doncaster in that season, and once in 2 FA Cup games. The following season he scored 3 times, all from the penalty spot. In 1906 he moved to play for Mexborough who were also in the Midland League. He and his wife Isabella had seven children, one of whom was also called Matt Moralee who played for Gainsborough Trinity, Grimsby Town, Aston Villa and Leicester City between the wars. Matt Moralee (senior) died in Doncaster in 1962.
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP] Matt Moralee (footballer, born 1912)  Matthew Moralee (21 February 1912−1991) was an English footballer who played as an inside forward in the Football League between the wars.<ref name=villa/>  Born in Barnburgh, near Doncaster,<ref name=family/> he played for Ormsby United before going to Denaby United, Gainsborough Trinity and Grimsby Town.<ref name=villa/>  Moralee arrived at Division 1 side Aston Villa in October 1936 where he played in 12 games scoring one goal.<ref name=villa/>  In November 1937, he moved to Leicester City who had just been promoted to Division 1. Scoring 6 goals, he played in 43 league and cup matches for them before the outbreak of the war.<ref name=fox/>  He was the son of The Wednesday and Doncaster Rovers player, also called Matt Moralee.<ref name=tree/>
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP] Matt Moralee  Matthew Whitfield Moralee (1878−1962)<ref name=tree/> was an English footballer who played as a half back for The Wednesday, Doncaster Rovers and Mexborough Town from 1902.<ref name=swfc/><ref name=lfc/><ref name=bluff/>  Born in Newcastle upon Tyne, by 1901 he was living in Sheffield<ref name=tree/> where he played for Division 1 side The Wednesday, who would later change their name to Sheffield Wednesday. Moralee was seen as being part of the "rare talent" of the reserve team<ref name=romance/> though in a team that were Division 1 Champions in 1902−03 and 1903−04, he went on to only make a handful of first team appearances.<ref name=bullock/>  For the 1904−05 season, he moved to play for Doncaster Rovers who had just been voted into Division 2 and who went on to have the joint worst season in English Football League history, ending up bottom with just 8 points from 34 games and failing to be re-elected.<ref name=lfc/> Moralee scored in 1 of his 32 League games for Doncaster in that season, and once in 2 FA Cup games. The following season he scored 3 times, all from the penalty spot. In 1906 he moved to play for Mexborough who were also in the Midland League.<ref name=bluff/>  He and his wife Isabella had seven children, one of whom was also called Matt Moralee<ref name=tree/> who played for Gainsborough Trinity, Grimsby Town, Aston Villa and Leicester City between the wars. Matt Moralee (senior) died in Doncaster in 1962.<ref name=tree/>
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]
In what city was Matt Moralee born? [SEP]
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP]  Lloyd Ultan (born 1938) is a historian and author. A native of The Bronx in New York City, he has been the borough's historian since 1996. He is a professor of history at Fairleigh Dickinson University's Petrocelli College of Continuing Studies and a member of the adjunct faculty at Lehman College. Ultan received a B.A. in history from Hunter College in 1959 and an M.A. in history from Columbia University in 1960. He has written several books, including The Beautiful Bronx (1920-1950), The Bronx in the Innocent Years: 1890-1925, and Bronx Accent. Ultan is renowned for his walking tours. His predecessor as the official Bronx Borough Historian was Dr. William A. Tieck, who served from 1980 to 1996.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] Lloyd Ultan (composer) ; Lloyd Ultan (historian)
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP]  Lloyd was born in 1958 in Wolverhampton. After playing football for Worcester City's youth and reserve teams, he moved into Sunday league football in Wolverhampton, from where he joined West Midlands (Regional) League club Darlaston in September 1978. He had no contract with Darlaston, preferring a non-contractual arrangement that let him continue playing Sunday football. He was out for a time through injury, before starting to attract attention early the following year. In March, Worcester City tried to re-sign him but he turned them down. Lloyd was then offered a trial with Football League club Cardiff City. Injury, for which he received daily treatment at nearby Walsall F.C., prevented
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP]  Lloyd was born on April 20, 1893, in Burchard, Nebraska, the son of James Darsie Lloyd and Sarah Elisabeth Fraser. His paternal great-grandparents were Welsh. In 1910, after his father had several business venture failures, Lloyd's parents divorced and his father moved with his son to San Diego, California. Lloyd had acted in theater since a child, but in California he began acting in one-reel film comedies around 1912.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP]  Lloyd was born in Withington, Manchester, England, and raised in Macclesfield, Cheshire, England. As a teen, he worked as a paperboy, a suit salesman, and in 1989 he began working at a local print works after school, earning £1 an hour.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] Lloyd Ultan (historian)  Lloyd Ultan (born 1938) is a historian and author. A native of The Bronx in New York City, he has been the borough's historian since 1996. He is a professor of history at Fairleigh Dickinson University's Petrocelli College of Continuing Studies and a member of the adjunct faculty at Lehman College. Ultan received a B.A. in history from Hunter College in 1959 and an M.A. in history from Columbia University in 1960.  He has written several books, including "The Beautiful Bronx (1920-1950)", "The Bronx in the Innocent Years: 1890-1925", and "Bronx Accent". Ultan is renowned for his walking tours. His predecessor as the official Bronx Borough Historian was Dr. William A. Tieck, who served from 1980 to 1996.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] Lloyd Ultan  Lloyd Ultan may refer to:
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] Gary Hermalyn  Gary "Doc" Hermalyn is an American historian and author, based in New York City. He is an Edgar Allan Poe scholar, and an authority on the history of The Bronx. Hermalyn is editor/author of 172 books on urban history, geography, education, natural history and exploration. He is CEO of The Bronx County Historical Society and a fellow of The Explorers Club.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] The Bronx  The Bronx () is a borough of New York City, coextensive with Bronx County, in the state of New York. It is south of Westchester County; north and east of the New York City borough of Manhattan, across the Harlem River; and north of the New York City borough of Queens, across the East River. The Bronx has a land area of and a population of 1,472,654 in the 2020 census. It is the only borough of New York City not primarily on an island. With a population that is 54.8% Hispanic as of 2020, it is the only majority-Hispanic county in the Northeastern United States and the fourth-most-populous nationwide.  The Bronx is divided by the Bronx River into a hillier section in the west, and a flatter eastern section. East and west street names are divided by Jerome Avenue. The West Bronx was annexed to New York City in 1874, and the areas east of the Bronx River in 1895.<ref name="ultan" /> Bronx County was separated from New York County in 1914.<ref name="courtstart">On the start of business for Bronx County: Bronx County In Motion. New Officials All Find Work to Do on Their First Day. "The New York Times", January 3, 1914 (PDF retrieved on June 26, 2008):  The word "Bronx" originated with Faroese-born (or Swedish-born) Jonas Bronck, who established the first settlement in the area as part of the New Netherland colony in 1639.<ref>*   The Bronx contains the poorest congressional district in the United States, the 15th. There are, however, some upper-income, as well as middle-income neighborhoods such as Riverdale, Fieldston, Spuyten Duyvil, Schuylerville, Pelham Bay, Pelham Gardens, Morris Park, and Country Club. Parts of the Bronx saw a steep decline in population, livable housing, and quality of life in the late 1960s, throughout the 1970s and 1980s, and into the early 1990s, culminating in a wave of arson in the late 1970s. The South Bronx, in particular, experienced severe urban decay. The borough began experiencing new population growth starting in the late 1990s and continuing to the present day.
In what city was Lloyd Ultan born? [SEP] The Bronx County Historical Society  The Bronx County Historical Society is a private non-profit organization that collects and disseminates historical material and information about the New York City borough of the Bronx, as well as southern Westchester County, New York.  The Society collects items such as books, reports, photographs, objects, and other artifacts about the Bronx as well as archival records documenting groups and individuals in the borough. It provides information to thousands of people each year through its Research Library and The Bronx County Archives, by mail, over the phone, and via digital communication. The Society also works with the New York Public Library's Bronx Library Center and its branch libraries in sharing these resources. The Bronx County Historical Society is digitizing select portions of its collections.  The Society honors Bronx High School valedictorians with an annual awards ceremony held at the Museum of Bronx History. The Society is also the largest publisher of books and articles about the Bronx and produces the oldest continuously published historical periodical in the New York metropolitan area, "The Bronx County Historical Society Journal" (see Publications).
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]  Ivan was born in Keta in the south-western part of Ghana on December 28, 1966. He studied film directing and scriptwriting at the National Film and Television Institute (NAFTI) in Ghana. He also has an Executive master's degree in Governance and Leadership from the GIMPA Graduate School in Ghana.
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]  Ivan Lyudnikov was born on 8 October 1902, in Krivaya Kosa in the Don Host Oblast. In 1913, he began working alongside his father at Mine No. 2 in the Shcheglovskogo Coal Mine. He became a coal sorter, then a drainage pump worker in 1914. He became an apprentice turner at the mine workshop in 1915, and in 1916 became a turner.
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]  Hladush was born on 24 July 1929 in village of Mishuryn Rih, Verkhnodniprovsk Raion, Dnipropetrovsk Okruha (today in Dnipropetrovsk Oblast). In 1951 he graduated the Dnipropetrovsk Autotransportation Technicum.
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]  Ivan Bekh (born October 9, 1940) is a professor who currently holds the position of Director of the Institute for Educational Problems. He was born in Vilchya, a village in the Polissya district of the Kiev Oblast province, and he is a respected member of the science and technology fields in Ukraine. Bekh is also a doctor of psychology (Doktor nauk) and an active member of the National Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine.
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]  school, with his two brothers, Thoma and Shurik. In 1956, at the age of 23, Ivan traveled to France and studied classical literature. A few years later, he moved to Strasburg, to further his education in the classics. In 1959, at the age of 26, Ivan moved to Washington, D.C., and obtained work at the Berlitz School of Languages. He taught Russian, French, and Persian. He also worked at the Voice of America simultaneously, interpreting and translating in Russian, French, and Persian. Ivan was also unique within the Assyrian community for his atheist belief system. As he expressed in his famous novel, Mount Semele, Ivan could never conceive the
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP] Ivan Khomukha  Ivan Viktorovich Khomukha (; born 14 July 1994) is a Russian football player who plays for FC Kuban Krasnodar.
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]
In what city was Ivan Khomukha born? [SEP]
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP]  Robert Lee Warlick (March 20, 1941 – September 6, 2005) was an American professional basketball player. Warlick was born in Hickory, North Carolina, and attended Ridgeview High School. The 6'5" guard/forward played at Pueblo Junior College in Colorado, then transferred to Pepperdine University in 1961. At Pepperdine, he helped the school reach the NCAA Tournament after a season in which he averaged 16.4 points and 9.6 rebounds. Warlick then played professionally in the NBA and ABA as a member of the Detroit Pistons, San Francisco Warriors, Milwaukee Bucks, Phoenix Suns, and Los Angeles Stars. He averaged 7.9 points per game in his professional career, which was cut short by a knee injury. Warlick later worked for Purex Industries, then established the Youth Sports Foundation in Long Beach, California. He died of a heart attack in 2005. Warlick's brother, Ernie Warlick, played football for the Buffalo Bills.
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP]  Michael Bolton (1983)
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP] Bob Warlick (1941–2005), American basketball player ; David Warlick (born 1952), American educator, author, programmer and public speaker ; Ernie Warlick (1932–2012), American football player ; Hermene Warlick Eichhorn (1906–2001), American musician and composer ; Holly Warlick (born 1958), American women's basketball coach and former player ; James B. Warlick Jr. (born 1956), American diplomat ; Mary Burce Warlick (born 1957), American diplomat ; Tom Warlick (1888–1939), American football player and coach ; Wilson Warlick (1892–1978), American judge Warlick is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP]  Robert Joel Kulick (January 16, 1950 – May 28, 2020) was a Grammy award winning American guitarist and record producer, who worked with numerous acts such as Kiss, W.A.S.P., Alice Cooper, Lou Reed, Meat Loaf and Michael Bolton. He was born in Brooklyn, New York, and was the older brother of former Kiss lead guitarist Bruce Kulick.
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP]  Kulick was born in Brooklyn, New York City and lived in Queens for a time, graduating from Newtown High School. He is Jewish and also went to Hebrew school. Kulick's brother, session guitarist/producer Bob Kulick, was influential in his music career. Bob's performance credits include W.A.S.P., Meat Loaf's touring band, and Kiss.
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP] Bob Warlick  Robert Lee Warlick (March 20, 1941 – September 6, 2005) was an American professional basketball player.  Warlick was born in Hickory, North Carolina, and attended Ridgeview High School. The 6'5" guard/forward played at Pueblo Junior College in Colorado, then transferred to Pepperdine University in 1961. At Pepperdine, he helped the school reach the NCAA Tournament after a season in which he averaged 16.4 points and 9.6 rebounds. Warlick then played professionally in the NBA and ABA as a member of the Detroit Pistons, San Francisco Warriors, Milwaukee Bucks, Phoenix Suns, and Los Angeles Stars. He averaged 7.9 points per game in his professional career, which was cut short by a knee injury.<ref name=sg/>  Warlick later worked for Purex Industries, then established the Youth Sports Foundation in Long Beach, California. He died of a heart attack in 2005.<ref name=sg/>  Warlick's brother, Ernie Warlick, played football for the Buffalo Bills.<ref name=sg/>
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP] Warlick  Warlick is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP] Holly Warlick  Frances Hollingsworth "Holly" Warlick (born June 11, 1958) and held the position until the end of the 2018–19 season. Warlick was inducted into the Women's Basketball Hall of Fame in 2001.
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP]
In what city was Bob Warlick born? [SEP] Whitey and Hogan  Whitey and Hogan (Roy "Whitey" Grant born April 7, 1916 in Shelby, North Carolina - died September 17, 2010 in Charlotte, North Carolina and Arval Hogan born July 24, 1911 in Robbinsville, North Carolina - died September 12, 2003 in Charlotte) were an American country music duo active for sixty-six years.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP]  Born and raised in Havana, Illinois, Beck got his start in organized baseball with semi-pro teams in Havana. He began his professional career with Bloomington of the Illinois–Indiana–Iowa League in 1905. The team planned to use Beck as a pitcher, but he had problems throwing strikes, so he was placed in the outfield. He played with Bloomington until mid-1908, when he was sold to the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League for $750. Beck made his major-league debut with the Boston Doves in 1909. In, he tied for the major league lead in home runs with 10. He split 1911 between the Cincinnati
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP]  Clarence Major was born on December 31, 1936, in Atlanta, Georgia, and grew up in Chicago, Illinois. As a teenager he started drawing and painting, writing poetry and fiction. In his early twenties he started publishing his own literary magazine, Coercion Review, which featured poets and writers such as Henry Miller, Kenneth Patchen and Lawrence Ferlinghetti. As a teenager Major was influenced by the monumental Van Gogh Exhibition of Paintings and Drawings at the Art Institute of Chicago, February 1 – April 16, 1950. After a stint in the Air Force he left the Midwest and moved to New York
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP]  Beck was born on July 23, 1912, in New York City. Beck's father, Max Beck, was a silent film actor.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP]  Charles Clarence Beck (June 8, 1910 – November 22, 1989) was an American cartoonist and comic book artist, best known for his work on Captain Marvel (today known as Shazam!) at Fawcett Comics and DC Comics. He was inducted into the comic book industry's Will Eisner Comic Book Hall of Fame in 1993 and the Jack Kirby Hall of Fame in 1997.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP]  Beck grew up in Livingston, New Jersey, where his mother Doris Beck twice served as mayor. She was the first female mayor of any Essex County municipality. He was a student athlete at Livingston High School. He graduated from high school in 1974 and was inducted into the school's hall of fame in 1993. A graduate of Ithaca College in Ithaca, New York, Beck received a Bachelor of Science degree in 1978. Bruce and his wife, Janet, currently reside in Westchester County, New York. The Becks have two sons, Jonathan and Michael, and two daughters-in-law, Jordana and Calie. Each Thanksgiving, Beck and his family serve those in need at the St. John's Bread and Life Program, the largest soup kitchen in Brooklyn. In 2015, the Becks received the Johnny's Angel Award for
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP] C. C. Beck  Charles Clarence Beck (June 8, 1910 – November 22, 1989) was an American cartoonist and comic book artist, best known for his work on Captain Marvel (today known as Shazam!) at Fawcett Comics and DC Comics.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP] Clarence Beck  Clarence Robert Beck (March 13, 1896 – August 20, 1962) was a professional football player from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. Beck attended high school at Harrisburg Tech where he scored a 105-yard touchdown for Tech against their rival Steelton. After high school, Beck attended Pennsylvania State University where he became a star offensive tackle. Beck made his professional debut in the National Football League in 1925 with the Pottsville Maroons. He played in the NFL for one season. Prior to that, he played for the independent Union Quakers of Philadelphia in 1921.  In 1924 Beck helped the Maroons win the 1924 Anthracite League championship. This move placed Clarence with his brother, Carl, on the Maroons team. In 1925 the Maroons entered the NFL. That year Clarence played on the Maroons team that won the 1925 NFL Championship, before it was stripped from the team due to a disputed rules violation.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP] Ohio Players  Ohio Players is an American funk band, most popular in the 1970s. They are best known for their songs "Fire" and "Love Rollercoaster", and for their erotic album covers that featured nude or nearly nude women. Many of the women were models featured in "Playboy".  The singles "Funky Worm", "Skin Tight", "Fire", and "Love Rollercoaster", and their albums "Skin Tight", "Fire", and "Honey", were awarded Gold certification.  On August 17, 2013, Ohio Players were inducted into the inaugural class of the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame that took place at Cleveland State University in Cleveland, Ohio.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP] Sally Rand  Sally Rand (born Helen Gould Beck; April 3, 1904 – August 31, 1979) was an American burlesque dancer, vedette, and actress, famous for her ostrich feather fan dance and balloon bubble dance. She also performed under the name Billie Beck.
In what city was Clarence Beck born? [SEP] Bill Parker (comics)  William Lee Parker (September 11, 1911 – January 31, 1963) was an American comic book writer and editor. He is best known for creating the Fawcett Comics character, Captain Marvel, in 1939, along with artist C. C. Beck.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]  Aloïs Boudry (12 August 1851, Ypres – 27 November 1938, Antwerp) was a Belgian painter known for his portraits, still lifes and interiors.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]  Boudard was born in Paris, an illegitimate child. He was brought up first by an adoptive family in the Loiret region of the center of France, then by his grand mother in the south of Paris. Boudard had a late career. As a teenager he was living in a country occupied by the German Army. He was wounded fighting for the French and he was awarded a military medal. His early adult life was spent in casual work, periods in jail and in a sanatorium recovering from tuberculosis. He experimented with writing, but it was not until he was 33 that he decided to be a full-time writer. He credits the writer Albert Paraz
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]  He studied at the art schools in Ypres and Roeselare and finished at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts (Antwerp), where his teachers were Nicaise De Keyser and Jozef Van Lerius. In 1885, he joined "Als ik Kan" (If I Can), an association of visual artists devoted to preserving traditional methods. He participated in the exposition "Brussels International 1910", where he won a silver medal. When the seaside resort of Knokke-Heist began a promotional campaign in 1913, he designed the posters, which became well-known. At the outbreak of World War I, he fled to England and established himself as a portraitist. In 1917, he moved to Italy to await the end of the war, then returned to Belgium. Wherever he was, he sought out humble people as the subjects for his paintings. His depictions of the fisherman of Nieuwpoort are especially popular. Many of them can be seen at the National Fishery Museum in Oostduinkerke. His son, Robert (1872-1961), was also a painter, as was his grandson Paul Boudry (1913-1976). His great-granddaughter, Nele, is currently a painter in Ghent.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]  Poaty-Souchlaty was born in Kouilou Department in 1941, to Alphonse Souchlaty-Poaty the Elder (died March 24, 1946), ivoirier and traveler, and Alphonsine Ndoko Ntondo.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]  Olry was born on 28 June 1880 in Lille in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region of France. The son of Albert Olry, himself a polytechnicien, Olry was admitted to the École Polytechnique in 1900. Upon graduating, he joined the 21st Artillery Regiment and was appointed the rank of lieutenant on 10 October 1904.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP]
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP] Jozef Van Lerius  Joseph Henri François Van Lerius (23 December 1823, Antwerp – 29 February 1876, Mechelen) was a Belgian painter in the Romantic-Historical style.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP] Nicaise de Keyser  Nicaise de Keyser (alternative first names: Nicaas, Nikaas of Nicasius; 26 August 1813, Zandvliet – 17 July 1887, Antwerp) was a Belgian painter of mainly history paintings and portraits who was one of the key figures in the Belgian Romantic-historical school of painting.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP] 1851 in Belgium  Events in the year 1851 in Belgium.
In what city was Aloïs Boudry born? [SEP] organised beings have little by little been transformed, we shall regard them as plastic substances which an artist has been pleased to knead during the immense course of ages, lengthening here, broadening or diminishing there, as the sculptor, with a piece of clay, produces a thousand forms, following the impulse of his genius. But we shall not doubt that the artist was the Creator himself, for each transformation has borne a reflection of his infinite beauty. Jean Albert Gaudry Jean Albert Gaudry (September 16, 1827 – November 27, 1908), French geologist and palaeontologist, was born at St Germain-en-Laye, and was
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]  Anthony Shields (born 4 June 1980) in Strabane, Northern Ireland is an Irish professional footballer who played as a midfielder for Finn Harps. He played for Peterborough United in the Football League.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]  Kevin Patrick Shields was born on 21 May 1963 in Jamaica Hospital in Queens, New York City, United States. He is the eldest of five siblings born to Irish parents; his mother was a nurse and his father was an executive in the food industry. Shields' parents had emigrated from Ireland to the United States in the 1950s, when the couple were teenagers. Shields attended Christ the King, a Roman Catholic primary school which he described as "a really horrible school run by psychopathic nuns". They lived in Flushing, a neighbourhood in north-central Queens, relocating to Commack, Long Island, when Shields was four, where he lived until the age of ten. In 1973, Shields returned to Dublin, Ireland, with his
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]  Albert Shields was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He was the son of an unprosperous family. He studied at the Stevens Institute of Technology, where he received his master’s degree in 1933. He then received a scholarship from the Deutschen Akademischen Austauschdienst and studied in Germany at the Preussische Versuchsanstalt für Wasserbau und Schiffbau (Prussian Research Institute for Water and Shipbuilding); PVWS). His intention was to get his PhD there on a subject in shipbuilding (the TH Berlin was at that time leading in this area). However, the grant was very limited and only covered the cost of living in Germany and not the travel costs. Shields paid for his crossing by working on a freighter to Germany.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]  Shields was born in Fort Riley, Kansas. He graduated from Lawton High School in Lawton, Oklahoma, where he played for the Lawton Wolverines high school football team.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]  Shields was born and raised in Weymouth, Massachusetts, in an Irish Catholic family. He graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1959.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP] Tony Shields  Anthony Shields (born 4 June 1980) in Strabane, Northern Ireland is an Irish professional footballer who played as a midfielder for Finn Harps. He played for Peterborough United in the Football League.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP]
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP] Ridley Scott  Sir Ridley Scott (born 30 November 1937) is a British film director and producer. Directing, among others, science fiction films, his work is known for its atmospheric and highly concentrated visual style. Scott has received many accolades throughout his career, including the BAFTA Fellowship for lifetime achievement from the British Academy of Film and Television Arts in 2018. In 2003, he was knighted by Queen Elizabeth II for services to the British film industry. He was inducted into the Science Fiction Hall of Fame in 2007, and received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2011.  An alumnus of the Royal College of Art in London, Scott began his career in television as a designer and director before moving into advertising, where he honed his filmmaking skills by making mini-films for television commercials. He made his debut as a film director with "The Duellists" (1977) and gained wider recognition with his next film, "Alien" (1979). Three years later he would direct "Blade Runner", which Scott calls his "most complete and personal film". Though his films range widely in setting and period, they frequently showcase memorable imagery of urban environments, spanning 2nd-century Rome in "Gladiator" (2000), 12th-century Jerusalem in "Kingdom of Heaven" (2005), Medieval England in "Robin Hood" (2010), contemporary Mogadishu in "Black Hawk Down" (2001), or the futuristic cityscapes of "Blade Runner" and different planets in "Alien", "Prometheus" (2012), "The Martian" (2015) and "" (2017). Several of his films are also known for their strong female characters, such as "Thelma & Louise" (1991).  Scott has been nominated for three Academy Awards for Directing, which he received for "Thelma & Louise", "Gladiator" and "Black Hawk Down". In a 2004 BBC poll, Scott was ranked 10 on the list of most influential people in British culture.
In what city was Tony Shields born? [SEP] Tony Anthony  Darrell W. Anthony (born April 12, 1960) is a retired American professional wrestler, also known by his ring name Dirty White Boy. He wrestled primarily for independent promotions in the Southeastern United States. He was most active throughout the 1980s and 1990s in the Tennessee-based United States Wrestling Association (USWA) and Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW), and had two short stints with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) under the ring names of T.L. Hopper and Uncle Cletus.
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP]  Jonkvrouw Amoëne van Haersolte (born Ernestine Amoene Sophia van Holthe tot Echten; 23 February 1890 &ndash; 11 August 1952) was a Dutch author of prose writing. Van Haersolte was born in Utrecht. She won the first P. C. Hooft Award in 1947. She died, aged 62, in Dalfsen.
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] 1927 - De laatsten ; 1946 - Sophia in de Koestraat ; 1953 - De roerkop
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP]  Cornelis Reinier van Kooten was born on 10 August 1941 in The Hague, Netherlands. He is the oldest child of Cornelis Reinier van Kooten en Anna Geertruida Snaauw. He has one sister, Anke, who is a year younger. He met his wife Barbara Kits in 1959 and married her on 18 October 1968. After their marriage they moved from The Hague to the polder village of Zuidoostbeemster, where their two children were born, Kasper in 1971 and Kim in 1974. Both children are well-known performers in the Netherlands. In 1978 the family moved to Hilversum and in 1996 to Amsterdam. Van Kooten is
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP]  Van Raay was born in Woerden.
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] Henk van Hoof (born 1947) a retired Dutch politician, lives in Ohé en Laak ; Jan Cober (born 1951 in Thorn) a Dutch conductor and clarinet player ; Guido Geelen (born 1961 in Thorn) a Dutch sculptor, furniture designer and ceramist ; Margo Reuten (born ca.1966 in Maasbracht) a Dutch head chef, holds two Michelin stars ; Lies Visschedijk (born 1974 in Heel) a Dutch actress
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] Amoene van Haersolte  Jkvr. Amoëne van Haersolte (born Ernestine Amoene Sophia van Holthe tot Echten; 23 February 1890 – 11 August 1952) was a Dutch writer of prose.  Van Haersolte was born in Utrecht. She won the first P. C. Hooft Award in 1947. She died, aged 62, in Dalfsen.
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] Holte (surname)  Holte or Holthe is the surname of:
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] his niece, Luciënne Smit (1953, Koog aan de Zaan), it was published in both Dutch and English. Arie Smit Adrianus Wilhelmus "Arie" Smit (15 April 1916 – 23 March 2016) was a Dutch-born Indonesian painter who lived on Bali. Smit was the third of eight children of a trader in cheese and confectionery in Zaandam. His family moved in 1924 to Rotterdam, where Smit eventually studied graphic design at the Academy of Arts. In his youth he was most inspired by the work of three artists named Paul (Signac, Gauguin and Cézanne). In 1938 he joined the Royal Netherlands East
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] 1873. Isidore van Kinsbergen was born in Bruges in 1821 (at that time, Bruges was part of the United Kingdom of the Netherlands). Having studied painting and singing in Paris, he joined a French opera group that travelled to Batavia (the present day Jakarta) in 1851. After several performances the group left the Dutch East Indies, but Van Kinsbergen decided to stay there. He became interested in the new medium of photography, particularly in using the albumen print technique. He opened the first albumen print processing shop in Batavia. In 1862, the General Secretary of East Indies Alexis Loudon invited
In what city was Amoene van Haersolte born? [SEP] a Venezia at the biennial of Venice was in 2013 named Trigonostomum Vanmecheleni in honour of the artist. Koen Vanmechelen, who lives in the Belgian town of Meeuwen-Gruitrode, is professionally based in Hasselt. He is a self-taught artist who studied hotel management in Antwerp and worked several years as a cook and pastry chef in Belgian top restaurants. His father is an artist, his mother a fashion designer. Vanmechelen’s interest in chickens and birds started at an early age, due to the trips he made with his uncle Louis Gonnissen, a famous Belgian ornithologist and television personality. At the age
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP]  Baker was born in 1818 in Belleville, St. Clair County, Illinois, of Scotch-Irish descent. There were contemporary sources, however, that stated how Baker himself was not quite sure of his exact birth date or whether it was the year 1818 or 1819. However, his childhood was documented, with his parents described as poor. Baker was one of many children in the family. From an early age he excelled in fishing, and he also hunted squirrels, muskrats, and other small game using a gun. When he was seventeen, his father sent him to his grandfather at St. Louis for his education, but he was sent home after showing little interest in the instruction. During this journey he met a "capper" who told him tales and adventures at the frontier. Baker then went to the office of the American Fur Company and joined his first trapping expedition.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP]  Baker was born in Binghamton, New York, to Doris (née Hamlin), a bank teller, and Ralph B. Baker, a professional artist. Baker and his family moved to Covina, California when he was less than one year old.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP]  Baker was born in Fostoria, Ohio, in 1942. After completing high school there, he joined the United States Air Force. He received an honorable discharge in 1966. Following his discharge he joined VISTA, the domestic Peace Corps program.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP]  James Baker was born on May 19, 1996, in Memphis, Tennessee. His name comes from his father, who is currently serving a 25-year prison sentence for rape. In 2008, when Baker was 12, his father broke out of prison and traveled to Baker's home to see him for a short period of time. At the age of 14, Baker became affiliated with the Grape Street Watts Crips. Although located in Los Angeles, the gang has an affiliated branch in Memphis called the Peda Roll Mafia. Baker's affiliation is mentioned throughout many of his songs, including "Rover". Baker served a month in prison in 2012 for committing a home invasion, and served the rest of his sentence on house arrest. Baker has said the invasion was "sloppy", and that they performed the invasion with no masks and a BB gun. Baker began making music when he was fourteen when he moved to Raleigh in North Memphis and met Tay Keith (who later produced "Look Alive"), and the two began making music shortly afterwards.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP]  Baker was born in Bloomington, Indiana, on August 31, 1962, the son of Nancy and Buddy Baker. He grew up in Greeley, Colorado. He started performing at the age of nine and steadily worked in musicals, operas, plays, and stand-up comedy. He was a childhood fan of Star Trek, Star Wars, Planet of the Apes, and the music of Frank Zappa; he also had an interest in insects, arthropods, and dinosaurs. He graduated from University High School in 1981 and received a Boettcher Scholarship. Baker attended Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Colorado, where he studied philosophy, biology, fine arts, and German, the last of which he studied overseas for a year at the University of Göttingen. He was involved in local theater productions and singing groups. After graduating with a BA in philosophy in 1986, he was involved in many community theater projects, including a sketch comedy movie that aired on local public television.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP] Jim Bakker  James Orsen Bakker (; born January 2, 1940) is an American televangelist and convicted fraudster. Between 1974 and 1987, Bakker hosted the television program "The PTL Club" and its cable television platform, the PTL Satellite Network, with his then wife, Tammy Faye. He also developed Heritage USA, a now-defunct Christian theme park in Fort Mill, South Carolina.  In the late 1980s, Bakker resigned from the PTL ministry over a cover-up of hush money to church secretary Jessica Hahn for an alleged rape. Subsequent revelations of accounting fraud brought about felony charges, conviction, imprisonment, and divorce. Bakker later remarried and returned to televangelism, founding Morningside Church in Blue Eye, Missouri, and reestablishing the PTL ministry. He currently hosts "The Jim Bakker Show", which focuses on the end times and the Second Coming of Christ while promoting emergency survival products. Bakker has written several books, including "I Was Wrong" and "Time Has Come: How to Prepare Now for Epic Events Ahead".
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP] James Baker  James Addison Baker III (born April 28, 1930) is an American attorney, diplomat and statesman. A member of the Republican Party, he served as the 10th White House Chief of Staff and 67th United States Secretary of the Treasury under President Ronald Reagan and the 61st U.S. Secretary of State before returning as the 16th White House Chief of Staff under President George H. W. Bush.  Born in Houston, Baker attended The Hill School and Princeton University before serving in the United States Marine Corps. After graduating from the University of Texas School of Law, he pursued a legal career. He became a close friend of George H. W. Bush and worked for Bush's unsuccessful 1970 campaign for the United States Senate. After the campaign, he served in various positions for President Richard Nixon. In 1975, he was appointed Under Secretary of Commerce for Gerald Ford. He served until May 1976, ran Ford's 1976 presidential campaign, and unsuccessfully sought election as the Attorney General of Texas.  Baker ran Bush's unsuccessful campaign for the 1980 Republican presidential nomination, but made a favorable impression on the Republican nominee, Ronald Reagan. Reagan appointed Baker as his White House Chief of Staff, and Baker remained in that position until 1985, when he became the Secretary of the Treasury. As Treasury Secretary, he arranged the Plaza Accord and the Baker Plan. He resigned as Treasury Secretary to manage Bush's successful 1988 campaign for president. After the election, Bush appointed Baker to the position of Secretary of State. As Secretary of State, he helped oversee U.S. foreign policy during the end of the Cold War and dissolution of the Soviet Union, as well as during the Gulf War. After the Gulf War, Baker served another stint as White House Chief of Staff from 1992 to 1993.  Baker remained active in business and public affairs after Bush's defeat in the 1992 presidential election. He served as a United Nations envoy to Western Sahara and as a consultant to Enron. During the Florida recount following the 2000 presidential election, he managed George W. Bush's legal team in the state. He served as the co-chairman of the Iraq Study Group, which Congress formed in 2006 to study Iraq and the ongoing Iraq War. He serves on the World Justice Project and the Climate Leadership Council. Baker is the namesake of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy at Rice University.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP] Tammy Faye Messner  Tamara Faye Messner (née LaValley, formerly Bakker ; March 7, 1942 – July 20, 2007) was an American evangelist, singer, author, talk show host, and television personality. She gained notice for her work with "The PTL Club", a televangelist program she co-founded with her husband Jim Bakker in 1974. They had hosted their own puppet show series for local programming in the early 1960s; Messner also had a career as a recording artist.<ref name=":0" /> In 1978, she and Bakker built Heritage USA, a Christian theme park.<ref name=":0" />  Messner garnered significant publicity when Jim Bakker was indicted, convicted, and imprisoned on numerous counts of fraud and conspiracy in 1989, resulting in the dissolution of "The PTL Club". She was diagnosed with colon cancer in 1996, from which she suffered intermittently for over a decade before dying of the disease in 2007.<ref name=":1" />  During her career Messner was noted for her eccentric and glamorous persona, as well as for moral views that diverged from those of many mainstream evangelists, particularly her advocacy for LGBT persons and reaching out to HIV/AIDS patients at the height of the AIDS epidemic. She released three autobiographies during her lifetime, "I Gotta Be Me" in 1978, "Tammy: Telling it My Way" in 1996 and "I Will Survive and You Will Too!" in 2003.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP] Jim Baker (frontiersman)  Jim Baker (1818–1898), known as "Honest Jim Baker",<ref name="Van Pelt" /> was a frontiersman, trapper, hunter, army scout, interpreter, and rancher. He was first a trapper and hunter. The decline of the fur trade in the early 1840s drove many trappers to quit, but Baker remained in the business until 1855. During that time he was a friend of Jim Bridger, Kit Carson and John C. Frémont. On August 21, 1841, he was among a group of twenty three trappers who were attacked by Arapaho, Cheyenne, and Sioux on what became known as Battle Mountain. After Henry Fraeb was killed, Baker organized the trappers against the Native Americans in a multiple-day fight.  While he was a trapper, he developed expertise as a guide, leader, marksman, and interpreter with Native Americans. He operated a ferry and trading post along the Green River. He served the military as a tracker and guide, including during the Mormon Utah War, following the Meeker Massacre, and during the Battle of the Rosebud in present day Big Horn County, Montana.  He had at least three Native American wives and fourteen children. He homesteaded on what is now Clear Creek near Denver on July 3, 1859. The area became known as Baker's Crossing, and he established several businesses there. He raised cattle, operated a stone coal (anthracite) mine, a toll bridge on the Denver Boulder Wagon Road, and a store operated by two of his wives. In 1873, Baker built a cabin with a guard tower near the Little Snake River in Wyoming, where he raised livestock until his death in 1898. His cabin is currently on display at the Little Snake River Museum in Savery, Wyoming. Baker's grave is marked with a stone at Baker Cemetery near Savery.
In what city was Jim Baker born? [SEP] Jim B. Baker  James B. Baker (July 12, 1941 – February 4, 2014), sometimes credited as Jim B. Baker, was an American stage, film and television actor. He was best known for his stage work in regional repertory theatre and for his role as tightwad banker Farley Waters on the short-lived 1980–81 CBS sitcom "Flo", a spin-off of "Alice".
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP] Empty – 2001
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP]  Stewart was born in Jenkins, Kentucky, on May 28, 1944, the son of George and Georgia Stewart. He was named after the actor Gary Cooper. In 1959 his father, a coal miner, sustained an injury while working in the mines, and shortly afterwards the family moved to Fort Pierce, a city on Florida's Atlantic coast. Learning guitar and piano, Stewart began touring with local bands and writing songs in his teens. He married Mary Lou Taylor, who was more than three years his senior, at age seventeen and began working days in an airplane factory. He still played in rock and country
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP]  Stewart was raised in Amsterdam, New York.
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP]  Pete Stewart (born August 12, 1931 in Statesville, North Carolina) is a retired NASCAR Grand National Series driver who participated in 17 racing events from 1953 to 1965.
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP]  Born in Scotland, raised in Dorset, and gaining fame in London, Stewart moved to Los Angeles shortly after the release of Year of the Cat.
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP]
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP] Pete Stewart  Pete Stewart is a singer, guitarist, songwriter and producer from Seattle, Washington. He is the lead singer and guitarist of Grammatrain, was the lead singer for The Accident Experiment, and is the former guitarist of Tait.  Stewart released solo albums in 1999, 2007 and 2010. He served as producer, songwriter, and guitarist for the debut albums of Tait (the solo project of Michael Tait) and TobyMac, the latter of which sold over 500,000 copies.
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP] Peter Stewart  Peter or Pete Stewart may refer to:
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP] Peter G. Stewart  Peter Grant Stewart (September 6, 1809 – August 27, 1900) was a jeweler and pioneer of the Oregon Country in what later became the U.S. states of Oregon and Washington. A native of New York state, he traveled the Oregon Trail to the Willamette Valley and settled first in Oregon City and later in what became Washington. He was served on the Second Executive Committee of the Provisional Government of Oregon, and his homesite became part of Fort Canby at the mouth of the Columbia River.
In what city was Pete Stewart born? [SEP] Peter A. Stewart  Peter Arthur Robert Stewart (1921–1993) was a Canadian physiologist who introduced an alternate approach to understanding acid–base physiology.  He outlined his model in a paper in 1978, and explained it his 1981 book, "How to Understand Acid–Base". The book was unavailable for many years, then made available on-line and finally reprinted in 2009, with additional chapters on current applications in clinical medicine.  The Stewart approach models the complex chemical equilibrium system known as acid–base balance. Stewart introduced the term "strong ion difference" or [SID] to mean the concentration of strongly dissociating cations minus the concentration of strongly dissociating anions. He characterised this, the total weak acid concentration and the partial pressure of CO as independent variables and formulated a quartic equation relating [H] to these three independent variables. The quartic equation was solved numerically by computer and has never been validated by titration or physiological experiments. The model ignores intracellular and extravascular compartments.  The impact of the Stewart analysis has been slow in coming but there has been a recent resurgence in interest, particularly as this approach provides explanations for several areas which are otherwise difficult to understand ("e.g.", dilutional acidosis, acid–base disorders related to changes in plasma albumin concentration).
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP]  Piotr Balcerzak (born 25 June 1975 in Warsaw) is a former Polish sprint athlete. He achieved the most success with the Polish 4 x 100 meters relay. He is married to another Polish sprinter, Joanna Niełacna.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP]   Oswald Marian Balzer (23 January 1858 in Chodorów – 11 January 1933 in Lwów) was a Polish historian of law and statehood, one of the most renowned Polish historians of his times. In 1887 he became a professor at the University of Lwów. Between 1895 and 1896 he also briefly served as its rector. Since 1891 until his death he was also the director of City Archives in Lwów. His best work is Genealogia Piastów (1895). In 1888 he was offered a seat in the Polish Academy of Skills, as well as several other scientific societies, both in Poland and abroad. In 1901 he founded the Society for the Support of Polish Science in Lwów (Towarzystwo dla Popierania Nauki Polskiej we Lwowie), the first such society in the city, later to be renamed to Lwow Scientific Society (1920). Among the fields of his studies were the history of Polish statehood and Poland's historical law, as well as the early history of Slavic states. He was buried in the Łyczakowski Cemetery.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP]  Edward Balcerzan (born in Vovchansk, Kharkiv Oblast, Ukraine, 13 October 1937) is a Polish literary critic, poet, prose writer, and translator.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP] John Balcerzak, American police officer ; Patrycja Balcerzak (born 1994), Polish footballer ; Piotr Balcerzak (born 1975), Polish sprinter Balcerzak is a surname of Polish-language origin. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP]  Laskowski was born on February 17, 1936, in Komarno, Ukraine. In 1940, his family was taken to Kazakhstan and went back to Poland in 1946. Roman studied at the high school in Kietrz. He graduated in slavistics from the Jagiellonian University in 1959. He has worked at the University since 1960, and in 1981, he received the title of academic professor. In 2001 he received the title of full professor. From 1973 to 1985 he was a lecturer at the University of Silesia in Katowice. In 1985 he emigrated to Sweden and settled down in Gothenburg. He decided to go back to Poland in 2001. He worked again as a lecturer at the Jagiellonian University (2001–2007) and University of Social Sciences and Humanities (2008–2012). In 1995 he was decorated with Knight's Cross of Polonia Restituta for dissemination of Polish culture in Sweden. He died in 2014 and was buried at the Rakowicki Cemetery.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP] Piotr Balcerzak  Piotr Balcerzak (born 25 June 1975 in Warsaw) is a former Polish sprint athlete. He achieved the most success with the Polish 4 x 100 meters relay.  He is married to another Polish sprinter, Joanna Niełacna.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP] Balcerzak  Balcerzak () is a surname of Polish-language origin. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP] List of people named Piotr  Piotr is a Polish given name that is equivalent to the English name, Peter. In 2009, Piotr was one of the three most popular male names in Poland.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP] Pete Buttigieg  Peter Paul Montgomery Buttigieg ( ; born January 19, 1982) is an American politician and former military officer who is currently serving as United States Secretary of Transportation. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the 32nd mayor of South Bend, Indiana, from 2012 to 2020, which earned him the nickname "Mayor Pete".  Buttigieg is a graduate of Harvard College and the University of Oxford, attending the latter on a Rhodes Scholarship. From 2009 to 2017, he was an intelligence officer in the United States Navy Reserve, attaining the rank of lieutenant. He was mobilized and deployed to the War in Afghanistan for seven months in 2014. Before being elected as mayor of South Bend in 2011, Buttigieg worked on the political campaigns of Democrats Jill Long Thompson, Joe Donnelly, and John Kerry, and ran unsuccessfully as the Democratic nominee for Indiana state treasurer in 2010. While serving as South Bend's mayor, Buttigieg came out as gay in 2015. He married Chasten Glezman, a schoolteacher and writer, in June 2018. Buttigieg declined to seek a third term as mayor.  Buttigieg ran as a candidate for president in the 2020 Democratic Party presidential primaries, launching his campaign for the 2020 United States presidential election on April 14, 2019. He became one of the first openly gay men to launch a major party presidential campaign. Despite initially low expectations, he gained significant momentum in mid-2019 when he participated in several town hall meetings and television debates. Buttigieg narrowly won the Iowa caucuses and placed a close second in the New Hampshire primary. By winning Iowa, he became the first openly gay candidate to win a presidential primary or caucus. Buttigieg dropped out of the race on March 1, 2020, and endorsed Joe Biden the following day.  President-elect Biden named Buttigieg as his nominee for Secretary of Transportation in December 2020. His nomination was confirmed on February 2, 2021, by a vote of 86–13, making him the first openly gay Cabinet secretary in U.S. history. Nominated at age 38, he is also the youngest Cabinet member in the Biden administration and the youngest person ever to serve as Secretary of Transportation.
In what city was Piotr Balcerzak born? [SEP]
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]  Mariano Rodolfo Chao (born February 7, 1972) is a field hockey goalkeeper from Argentina, who competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics. He was born in San Fernando, Buenos Aires. He is also known as Tomas Chao´s uncle, a very important influencer.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]  Jason Chao Teng Hei (born December 12, 1986) was born in Macau. Chao is a social activist and LGBT rights campaigner. He was President of the New Macau Association and Director of the satirical newspaper Macau Concealer, one of the few online pro-democracy media in the city. He co-founded activist organisation Macau Conscience and the Rainbow of Macau.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]  Chao was born in Lashio, Shan State, Myanmar. Both his parents are of Chinese descent, and his ancestral home is Nanjing. The son of a cook and a doctor, Chao was the youngest of five children and grew up poor. He won a scholarship and moved to Taiwan when he was 16, where he went to high school. Chao received his bachelor's degree and master's degree in design at National Taiwan University of Science and Technology. In 2011, he renounced his Burmese citizenship, and became a naturalised citizen of Taiwan. He was named Outstanding Taiwanese Filmmaker of the Year at the 53rd Golden Horse Awards in 2016.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]  Ramón Luís Chao Rego (21 July 1935 – 20 May 2018) was a Spanish journalist and writer. He won the Premio de Virtuosismo for Piano in 1955. The same year he moved to Paris, France to study music with Nadia Boulanger and Lazare Lévy. In 1960 he began his collaboration with the RTF's Iberian languages Service. He was head of this service ten years later. At the same time he was collaborating with the Spanish weekly Triunfo, the monthly Le Monde Diplomatique, and the daily newspapers Le Monde and La Voz de Galicia. Ramón Chao was named chevalier de Ordre des Arts et des
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]  Mariano Gastón Martínez was born on December 5, 1978 in La Boca, Argentina. After the separation of his parents, Mariano Martínez moved to Avellaneda, Buenos Aires with his mother and his five brothers.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP] Mariano Chao  Mariano Rodolfo Chao (born February 7, 1972) is a field hockey goalkeeper from Argentina, who competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics. He was born in San Fernando, Buenos Aires. He is also known as Tomas Chao´s uncle, a very important influencer.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP] John Mariano  John Mariano (born August 5, 1960) is an American actor who has worked in film, television, animation and nightclubs. He is known for playing tough guys with a comic edge. His ability of physical comedy has been compared to Jerry Lewis and Buster Keaton. Keaton's wife Eleanor was quoted as saying; "He reminded me so much of Buster, it gave me chills". He got his start in films playing a prissy bank teller in "Tough Guys" with Burt Lancaster and Kirk Douglas. Working steadily in both film and television, he's best remembered on television for playing Johnny the waiter in "Caroline in the City" with Lea Thompson. A gifted improviser, sketch player and voice-over artist, his impression of Robert De Niro in a sketch entitled "De Niro Sings the Supremes" at The Groundlings, led to him playing a pigeon named Bobby in the cartoon series "Animaniacs", who is based on a character played by De Niro in "Goodfellas".
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP] Chao (surname)  Chao is a surname in various cultures. It is the Pinyin spelling of two Chinese surnames ( and ), the Wade–Giles spelling of two others ( or the much rarer , both spelled in Pinyin as Zhào), and a regional or other spelling of two additional Chinese surnames ( Cáo and Zhōu). It is also a Galician and Portuguese surname.
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]
In what city was Mariano Chao born? [SEP]
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP]  Edgerton was born on October 2, 1879 in Johnston County, North Carolina to Gabriel Griffin Edgerton and his wife Harriet Copeland but moved to Lebanon, Tennessee, to join his older brother, Howard K. Edgerton, a physician, in 1896. He attended Cumberland University for prep school and his first year of college. After receiving the Wilson County Cartmell scholarship, he went to Vanderbilt University, earning an A.B. in 1902 and an M.A in 1903.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP]  Edgerton was born in Plattsburgh, New York, on January 11, 1813. He graduated from Plattsburgh Academy and worked briefly for a newspaper. He moved to New York City to work in advertising and other business pursuits. Within a few years, in 1837, Edgerton moved to Hicksville, Ohio, an area of development. He became manager of the American Land Company, engaging in surveying and selling land for settlement and development in northern Ohio. He was the founder of Edgerton, Ohio.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP]  Edgerton was born in Fremont, Nebraska, on April 6, 1903, the son of Mary Nettie Coe and Frank Eugene Edgerton, a descendant of Samuel Edgerton, the son of Richard Edgerton, one of the founders of Norwich, Connecticut and Alice Ripley, a great-granddaughter of Governor William Bradford (1590–1657) of the Plymouth Colony and a passenger on the Mayflower. His father was a lawyer, journalist, author and orator and served as the assistant attorney general of Nebraska from 1911 to 1915. Edgerton grew up in Aurora, Nebraska. He also spent some of his childhood years in Washington, D.C., and Lincoln, Nebraska.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP]  Edgerton was born in Blacktown, New South Wales and grew up in Dural (both suburbs of Sydney). He is the son of Marianne Margarethe (von Dort), a homemaker, and Michael Edgerton, a solicitor/property developer. His younger brother is actor Joel Edgerton. His mother is a Dutch immigrant who was born in The Hague.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP]  Edgerton was born in Saybrook, Connecticut on August 17, 1811. Edgerton studied to be a surveyor in Buffalo, New York.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP] Joel Edgerton  Joel Edgerton (born 23 June 1974) is an Australian actor and filmmaker. He is best known for his appearance in the "Star Wars" films "Attack of the Clones" (2002) and "Revenge of the Sith" (2005) as a young Owen Lars, a role he reprised in the Disney+ series "Obi-Wan Kenobi" (2022). Edgerton also appeared in "King Arthur" (2004) as Gawain, "Warrior" (2011), "Zero Dark Thirty" (2012), "The Great Gatsby" (2013), "Black Mass" (2015), "Loving" (2016), "Bright" (2017), "Red Sparrow" (2018), "The King" (2019), and the limited series "The Underground Railroad" (2021).  In Australia, Edgerton portrayed Will McGill in the drama series "The Secret Life of Us" (2001–02), for which he won the AACTA Award for Best Lead Actor in a Television Drama. He has appeared in several Australian films, such as "The Square" (2008), "Animal Kingdom" (2010), for which he won the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Supporting Role, "Wish You Were Here" (2012), and "Felony" (2013).  In 2015, Edgerton received a nomination for the Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing – First-Time Feature Film for "The Gift", a psychological horror-thriller film he wrote, directed, co-produced, and in which he co-starred. Edgerton garnered further critical acclaim for his performance as Richard Loving in the 2016 historical drama "Loving", for which he received a nomination for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor. In 2018, he wrote, directed, and starred in the drama "Boy Erased", about gay conversion therapy. The following year's "The King", which he co-wrote and starred in, was released on Netflix.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP] John Egerton (journalist)  John Egerton (June 14, 1935 — November 21, 2013) was an American journalist and author known for his writing on the Civil Rights Movement, Southern food, history of the South, and Southern culture.<ref name=passing/>  Egerton wrote or edited approximately twenty non-fiction books and one "contemporary fable". He also contributed chapters to numerous other volumes and wrote scores of articles in newspapers and magazines. Egerton was a participant and writer for many projects and conferences dealing with education, desegregation, civil rights, and the American South; particularly its food. Among his best-known books are "The Americanization of Dixie", "Generations: An American Family", "Southern Food: At Home, on the Road, in History", and "Speak Now Against the Day: The Generation before the Civil Rights Movement in the South".  Egerton's "Speak Now Against the Day: The Generation Before the Civil Rights Movement in the South" won the Robert F. Kennedy Book Award. He also wrote "Southern Food: At Home, On the Road, In History" and coedited "Nashville: An American Self-Portrait", a look at his adopted city to in the 1960s. In June 2013, five months before his own death, Egerton spoke at the memorial service for preacher and civil rights activist Will D. Campbell.<ref name=passing/>
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP] John Edgerton  John Emmett Edgerton (October 2, 1879 – August 4, 1938) was an industrialist who gained prominence as the president of the National Association of Manufacturers from 1921 to 1931. Edgerton was also an All-Southern college football fullback for the Vanderbilt Commodores of Vanderbilt University.
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP] Taron Egerton  Taron Egerton ( ; born 10 November 1989) is a Welsh actor. He is the recipient of a Golden Globe Award, and has received nominations for a Grammy Award and two British Academy Film Awards.  Born in Birkenhead, England, Egerton began acting at age 15 and graduated from the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in 2012. He gained recognition for his starring role as spy recruit Gary "Eggsy" Unwin in the action comedy film "" (2014) and its sequel "" (2017). He has also starred in several biographical films, portraying military officer Edward Brittain in the drama "Testament of Youth" (2014), the titular ski-jumper in the sports film "Eddie the Eagle" (2016), and singer Elton John in the musical "Rocketman" (2019), the lattermost of which earned him the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy. In 2022, Egerton starred in the miniseries "Black Bird".
In what city was John Edgerton born? [SEP] John Egerton, 3rd Earl of Bridgewater  John Egerton, 3rd Earl of Bridgewater KB PC (9 November 1646 – 19 March 1701) was a British nobleman from the Egerton family.  He was the eldest son of John Egerton, 2nd Earl of Bridgewater and his wife Elizabeth Cavendish. His maternal grandparents were William Cavendish, 1st Duke of Newcastle and his first wife Elizabeth Basset.  On 17 November 1664, he married Lady Elizabeth Cranfield, daughter of James Cranfield, 2nd Earl of Middlesex. She gave birth to a son, but died in childbirth. He married his second wife on 2 April 1673, Lady Jane Paulet, eldest daughter of Charles Paulet, 1st Duke of Bolton.  Egerton served as a Member of Parliament for Buckinghamshire as a Whig for Buckinghamshire from 1685 to 1686. He also served as Lord Lieutenant of Buckinghamshire following his father's death in 1686 but was dismissed after his first period in office by King James II for refusing to produce a list of Roman Catholics to serve as officers of the militia. He was later reinstated to the position when William III came to the throne and James II was forced into exile.  He served as First Lord of Trade in the Convention Parliament, 1690–1691. He was promoted to the cabinet as First Lord of the Admiralty by the Whigs in 1699. He served in this position until March 1700/1.  He was chosen as a Speaker for the House of Lords in 1697 and then again for 1701.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP]  Bessman was born July 19, 1952, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. He grew up in Madison and began writing freelance for Variety while in Wisconsin.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP]  James "Buffalo Jim" Barrier (March 22, 1953 – April 6, 2008), born in Cleveland, Ohio, was a local wrestling promoter in Las Vegas. His legal struggle with business owner and landlord Frederick "Rick" Rizzolo, who owned land occupied by Barrier's auto repair business, was covered by the media during the early 2000s.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP]  Born James Lawrence Irvin and raised in west London.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP]  Ignatowski was born James Caldwell. He claimed to have been born in Spokane, Washington, although his often-unreliable memory makes this information quite open to question. However, he was definitely raised in Boston, Massachusetts as one of three children in a very well-to-do family. Jim's mother died when he was quite young, leaving Jim's father (later played by Victor Buono) to raise the family. (Jim states while applying for his taxi driver's license that his father's name was Ignatowski—another example of his faulty memory.) Being busy with his thriving urology practices, Dr. Caldwell left much of this task to various family servants. The father's absence seemed to affect all the Caldwell children in some way: Jim was an
In what city was Jim born? [SEP]  had been born; Jim was born in 1947, after the family had moved to Santa Clara. They later moved to San Jose where William ran a newsstand, and where they were able to find low-cost housing. The family lived in relative poverty, and received state financial aid. Jim and his sisters learned to work hard and do things for themselves as they grew up. They also helped Carmen with cooking and other household chores. When Jim was growing up, the family's financial situation was a big problem for him. He did not like the area he lived in, often did not have money for dates, and avoided bringing friends to his house. He worked from an early age, cleaning up at a gas
In what city was Jim born? [SEP] Jim Gaffigan  James Christopher Gaffigan (born July 7, 1966) is an American stand-up comedian, actor, writer, and producer. His material often addresses fatherhood, laziness, food, religion, and general observations. He is regarded as a "clean" comic, using little profanity in his routines. He has released several successful comedy specials, including "", "Obsessed", "Cinco", and "Quality Time", all of which have received Grammy nominations.  Gaffigan's memoir "Dad Is Fat" (2013) and his most recent book "Food: A Love Story" (2014) were both published by Crown Publishers. He co-created and starred in the TV Land series "The Jim Gaffigan Show", based on his life. He collaborates extensively with his wife, actress Jeannie Gaffigan, with whom he has five children. They are Catholic, a topic that frequently comes up in his comedy shows.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP] Jim Morrison  James Douglas Morrison (December 8, 1943 – July 3, 1971) was an American singer, poet and songwriter who was the lead vocalist of the rock band the Doors. Due to his wild personality, poetic lyrics, distinctive voice, unpredictable and erratic performances, and the dramatic circumstances surrounding his life and early death, Morrison is regarded by music critics and fans as one of the most influential frontmen in rock history. Since his death, Morrison's fame has endured as one of popular culture's top rebellious and oft-displayed icons, representing the generation gap and youth counterculture.  Together with pianist Ray Manzarek, Morrison founded the Doors in 1965 in Venice, California. The group spent two years in obscurity until shooting to prominence with their number-one single in the United States, "Light My Fire", taken from their self-titled debut album. Morrison recorded a total of six studio albums with the Doors, all of which sold well and received critical acclaim. He was well known for improvising spoken word poetry passages while the band played live. Manzarek said Morrison "embodied hippie counterculture rebellion".  Morrison developed an alcohol dependency throughout the band's career, which at times affected his performances on stage. On July 3, 1971, Morrison died unexpectedly in Paris at the age of 27, amid several conflicting witness reports. His premature death is often linked with the 27 Club. Since no autopsy was performed, the cause of Morrison's death remains disputed.  Although the Doors recorded two more albums after Morrison died, his death severely affected the band's fortunes, and they split up two years later. In 1993, Morrison was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame along with the other Doors members. In 2011, a "Rolling Stone" readers' pick placed Morrison in fifth position on the magazine's "Best Lead Singers of All Time", and in another "Rolling Stone" list of "The 100 Greatest Singers of All Time", he was ranked 47th. He was also ranked the 22nd greatest singer in rock by "Classic Rock" magazine.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP] Jim Carrey  James Eugene Carrey (; born January 17, 1962) is a Canadian-American actor, comedian and artist. Known for his energetic slapstick performances, Carrey first gained recognition in 1990, after landing a role in the American sketch comedy television series "In Living Color" (1990–1994). He broke out as a star in motion pictures with "", "The Mask" and "Dumb and Dumber" (all 1994). This was followed up with "", "Batman Forever" (both 1995) and "Liar Liar" (1997).  In the 2000s, he gained further notice for his portrayal of the Grinch in "How the Grinch Stole Christmas" and for the comedy "Me, Myself & Irene" (both in 2000), as well as "Bruce Almighty" (2003), "Lemony Snicket's A Series of Unfortunate Events" (2004), "Fun with Dick and Jane" (2005), "Yes Man", "Horton Hears a Who!" (both 2008), and "A Christmas Carol" (2009). In the 2010s, Carrey appeared in the films "Mr. Popper's Penguins" (2011), "The Incredible Burt Wonderstone", "Kick-Ass 2" (both 2013), "Dumb and Dumber To" (2014), and portrayed Leap Day William in the sitcom "30 Rock" (2012). In 2020, he portrayed Dr. Robotnik in "Sonic the Hedgehog" and its 2022 sequel and Joe Biden in six episodes of "Saturday Night Live" in the leadup to the 2020 United States presidential election.  Although largely typecast as a comedic actor, Carrey has had success in dramatic roles. His first dramatic success was for starring in the Emmy-nominated made-for-television film "Doing Time on Maple Drive" (1992). Carrey gained attention for his leading roles in "The Truman Show" (1998) and "Man on the Moon" (1999), earning Golden Globe Awards for each film. He later starred in the psychological science fiction romantic drama film "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" (2004); this performance is repeatedly lauded as the seminal in Carrey's career and for which he was nominated for both the BAFTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role and another Golden Globe Award. He was also praised for his dramatic role of Jeff Piccirillo in the Showtime tragicomedy series "Kidding" (2018, 2020), for which he was nominated for another Golden Globe. Multiple film critics and media outlets have cited Carrey as one of the best actors never to have received an Academy Award nomination.   In 2006, Carrey received a Grammy award nomination for Best Spoken Word Album for Children. In 2013, Carrey published his first book, a children's story titled "How Roland Rolls", which was awarded a 2013 Gelett Burgess Children's Book Award. In 2020, Carrey published his first novel, "Memoirs and Misinformation", which he co-authored with Dana Vachon.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP] Jim Jordan (American politician)  James Daniel Jordan (born February 17, 1964) is an American politician serving as the U.S. representative for since 2007. His district stretches from Lake Erie to just below Urbana in north-central and western Ohio and includes Lima, Marion, Tiffin, Norwalk, and Elyria. A member of the Republican Party, Jordan is a former collegiate wrestler and college wrestling coach.  Jordan is a founding member of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, serving as its first chair from 2015 to 2017, and as its vice chair since 2017. He was the ranking member of the House Oversight Committee from 2019 to 2020. He vacated that position to become the ranking member of the House Judiciary Committee.  Jordan is a close ally of former president Donald Trump. During Trump's presidency, Jordan sought to discredit investigations into Russian interference in the 2016 election and staged a sit-in to prevent a Trump impeachment inquiry hearing over the Trump-Zelenskyy telephone controversy. After Joe Biden won the 2020 presidential election and Trump refused to concede while making claims of election fraud, Jordan supported lawsuits to invalidate the election results and voted not to certify the Electoral College results. He has refused to cooperate with the United States House Select Committee in connection with the January 6, 2021 storming of U.S. Capital by election fraud protesters, which subpoenaed him on May 12, 2022.
In what city was Jim born? [SEP] Jim Kenney  James Francis Kenney (born August 7, 1958) is an American politician who is the 99th Mayor of Philadelphia. Kenney was first elected on November 3, 2015, defeating his Republican rival Melissa Murray Bailey after winning the crowded Democratic primary contest by a landslide on May 19.  Before he became mayor, Kenney was a member of the Philadelphia City Council for 23 years, serving as a Councilman at Large from January 1992 until January 29, 2015, when he resigned to run for mayor.  Kenney was re-elected to a second term as mayor on November 5, 2019. His term will expire in 2024.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]  Brown was born on May 3, 1933, in Barnwell, South Carolina, to 16-year-old Susie (née Behling; 1916–2004) and 21-year-old Joseph Gardner Brown (1912–1993) in a small wooden shack. Brown's name was supposed to have been Joseph James Brown, but his first and middle names were mistakenly reversed on his birth certificate. In his autobiography, Brown stated that he had Chinese and Native American ancestry and that his father was of mixed African-American and Native American descent, while his mother was of mixed African-American and Asian descent. The Brown family lived in extreme poverty in Elko, South Carolina, which was an impoverished town at the time. They later moved to Augusta, Georgia, when James was four or five.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]  James Joseph Brown (May 3, 1933 – December 25, 2006) was an American singer, dancer, musician, record producer, and bandleader. The central progenitor of funk music and a major figure of 20th century music, he is often referred to by the honorific nicknames "Godfather of Soul", "Mr. Dynamite", and "Soul Brother No. 1". In a career that lasted over 50 years, he influenced the development of several music genres. Brown was one of the first 10 inductees into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at its inaugural induction in New York on January 23, 1986. Brown began his career as a gospel singer in Toccoa, Georgia. He came to
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]  Brown was born to Floyd Estle Brown, a carpenter, and Cordie Mae (née Bowen) Brown in Desdemona, Texas, then a petroleum boomtown. He attended elementary and some of his high school years in Waco, Texas. He attended Schreiner Institute in Kerrville, Texas, where he played tennis, sang in the glee club, and played sousaphone in the school band. After high school he enrolled at Baptist-affiliated Baylor University in Waco. After a brief period as a competitive tennis player, Brown launched a four-decade career as an actor, with roles in more than 40 films, including Wake Island (1942), Air Force (1943), Bing Crosby's Going My Way (1944), Objective, Burma! (1945), The Fabulous Texan (1947), John Wayne's Sands of Iwo Jima (1949), The Charge at Feather River (1953), Five Guns to Tombstone (1960), Gun Street (1961), and a film noir, When the Clock Strikes (1961).
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]  Brown was born Charles James Brown in Eugene, Oregon. He is of African American descent.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]  James Brown (September 11, 1951 – February 22, 2020) was an American-born painter active in Paris and Oaxaca, Mexico. He was most well known in the 1980s for his rough painterly semi-figurative paintings, bearing affinities to Jean-Michel Basquiat and East Village painting of the time, but with influences from primitive art and classical Western modernism.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP]
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP] Daniel James Brown  Daniel James Brown (born 1951) is an American author of narrative nonfiction books.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP] James Brown (sportscaster)  James Talmadge Brown (born February 25, 1951) is an American sportscaster known for being the studio host of "The James Brown Show" and "The NFL Today" on CBS Sports. He is also a Special Correspondent for CBS News.  He is additionally known for serving as the former host of Fox Sports' NFL pregame show "Fox NFL Sunday" for eleven years.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP] James Brown (footballer, born 1987)  James Peter Brown (born 3 January 1987) is a retired English footballer who played as a winger.  Brown started out as a striker for Football League side Hartlepool United but started playing on the wing during the club's promotion season in 2006–07. Brown also spent two seasons in the National League for Gateshead. Brown's career was ravaged by injuries and he retired from professional football aged 27, following this he played part-time for Northern Premier League side Whitby Town for two seasons.
In what city was James Brown born? [SEP] James Brown (American football guard)  James Brown (born November 30, 1988) is a former American football guard. He went undrafted in the 2012 NFL Draft, and was signed by the Chicago Bears after the draft. He played college at Troy. He was also a member of the Cleveland Browns.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]  Andrea di Alessandro was an Italian sculptor of the Renaissance period. He was born in Brescia and active there and in Venice during the latter half of the 16th century. He was a pupil of Alessandro Vittoria, and his masterpiece is the bronze candelabra for the church of Santa Maria della Salute in Venice.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]  Di Pardo was born in Rimini, Italy, to a father from Campobasso, Italy.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]  Andrea De Carlo grew up in Milan. His "love-hatred" relationship with the capital of Lombardy would come to be detailed in his novels. He attended the liceo classico Giovanni Berchet (which appears in the initial chapters of Due di Due); then he graduated in modern literature, with a degree in contemporary history. He worked for a time as a photographer, initially as second assistant to Oliviero Toscani, and then doing portraits and reportage on his own. He traveled widely in the United States, living first in Boston, then New York City, Santa Barbara and Los Angeles, where he did odd jobs and taught Italian. Then he moved on to Australia, staying
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]  Di Battista was born in Rome to parents of Civita Castellana and Vittorio Di Battista. His father was an entraprenuer in the healthcare sector and municipal councilor for the Italian Social Movement. Di Battista graduated high school from Liceo Scientifico Statale Farnesina located in Rome. Later on, he graduated from the University of Roma Tre with a dissertation A multi-speed European monetary union as a realistic strategy. He also obtained the Level 2 Master in International Protection of Human Rights from Sapienza University of Rome. Later in 2010 he worked for a year as a cooperator in Guatemala, and also collaborated with educational projects in other countries such as Chile. On 11 February 2021, Di Battista announced his resignation from the 5 Star Movement, as he opposed the group's decision of being part of the new government formed by Mario Draghi, during the 2021 Italian government crisis.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]  Alessandro Del Vecchio (born 21 April 1979) is an Italian multi-instrumentalist and producer, best known for his collaborations with hard rock and heavy metal artists such as Jørn Lande, Revolution Saints, Hardline, Fergie Frederiksen, Ted Poley, Kelly Keeling and Mat Sinner, and for his work as the in-house producer for Neapolitan record label Frontiers Music SRL from his personal Ivorytears Music Works Studio located just north of Milan.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP] Andrea di Alessandro  Andrea di Alessandro was an Italian sculptor of the Renaissance period. He was born in Brescia and active there and in Venice during the latter half of the 16th century. He was a pupil of Alessandro Vittoria, and his masterpiece is the bronze candelabra for the church of Santa Maria della Salute in Venice.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP] Andrea Palladio  Andrea Palladio ( ; ; 30 November 1508 – 19 August 1580) was an Italian Renaissance architect active in the Venetian Republic. Palladio, influenced by Roman and Greek architecture, primarily Vitruvius, is widely considered to be one of the most influential individuals in the history of architecture. While he designed churches and palaces, he was best known for country houses and villas. His teachings, summarized in the architectural treatise, "The Four Books of Architecture", gained him wide recognition.  The city of Vicenza, with its 23 buildings designed by Palladio, and 24 Palladian villas of the Veneto are listed by UNESCO as part of a World Heritage Site named City of Vicenza and the Palladian Villas of the Veneto. The churches of Palladio are to be found within the "Venice and its Lagoon" UNESCO World Heritage Site.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP] Alessandro Del Piero  Alessandro Del Piero  Since 2015, he has worked as a pundit for Sky Sport Italia. A technically gifted and creative supporting forward who was also a free-kick specialist, Del Piero is widely regarded as one of the greatest players of his generation and as one of the best Italian players of all time. He won the Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year award in 1998 and 2008 and received multiple nominations for the Ballon d'Or and FIFA World Player of the Year.  A prolific goal-scorer, he is currently the second highest all-time Italian top-scorer in all competitions, with 346 goals, behind only Silvio Piola, with 390 goals; he is also the joint ninth highest goalscorer in Serie A history, with 188 goals, alongside Giuseppe Signori and Alberto Gilardino. After beginning his career with Italian club Padova in Serie B in 1991, he moved to Juventus in 1993, where he played for 19 seasons (11 as captain), and holds the club records for most goals (290) and appearances (705). During his time at the club, he won six Serie A titles, the Coppa Italia, four Supercoppa Italiana titles, the UEFA Champions League, the UEFA Super Cup, the UEFA Intertoto Cup, and the Intercontinental Cup. After leaving the club in 2012, he also spent two seasons with Australian side Sydney FC; he retired in 2014, after a season with Delhi Dynamos FC in the Indian Super League.  Del Piero has scored in every competition in which he has participated. In 2004, he was named in the FIFA 100, a list of the 125 greatest living footballers selected by Pelé as a part of FIFA's centenary celebrations. In the same year, he was also voted into the UEFA Golden Jubilee Poll, a list of the 50 best European players of the past 50 years. Along with six awards in Italy for gentlemanly conduct, he has also won the Golden Foot award, which pertains to personality as well as playing ability.  At international level, Del Piero has also represented the Italian national team at three FIFA World Cups and four UEFA European Football Championships, most notably winning the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and reaching the final of UEFA Euro 2000 with Italy. He is the joint fourth highest scorer for the Italian national team, with 27 goals, alongside Roberto Baggio, and behind only Silvio Piola with 30 goals, Giuseppe Meazza with 33 goals, and Luigi Riva with 35 goals; with 91 appearances for Italy between 1995 and 2008, he is also his nation's eleventh-most capped player of all-time. In his career Del Piero scored 462 goals.
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP] Sandro Botticelli  Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi (<ref name="Ettl"/> – May 17, 1510), known as Sandro Botticelli (, ), was an Italian painter of the Early Renaissance. Botticelli's posthumous reputation suffered until the late 19th century, when he was rediscovered by the Pre-Raphaelites who stimulated a reappraisal of his work. Since then, his paintings have been seen to represent the linear grace of late Italian Gothic and some Early Renaissance painting, even though they date from the latter half of the Italian Renaissance period.  In addition to the mythological subjects for which he is best known today, Botticelli painted a wide range of religious subjects (including dozens of renditions of the "Madonna and Child", many in the round tondo shape) and also some portraits. His best-known works are "The Birth of Venus" and "Primavera", both in the Uffizi in Florence, which holds many of Botticelli’s works. Botticelli lived all his life in the same neighbourhood of Florence; his only significant times elsewhere were the months he spent painting in Pisa in 1474 and the Sistine Chapel in Rome in 1481–82.  Only one of Botticelli's paintings, the "Mystic Nativity" (National Gallery, London) is inscribed with a date (1501), but others can be dated with varying degrees of certainty on the basis of archival records, so the development of his style can be traced with some confidence. He was an independent master for all the 1470s, which saw his reputation soar. The 1480s were his most successful decade, the one in which his large mythological paintings were completed along with many of his most famous Madonnas. By the 1490s his style became more personal and to some extent mannered. His last works show him moving in a direction opposite to that of Leonardo da Vinci (seven years his junior) and the new generation of painters creating the High Renaissance style, and instead returning to a style that many have described as more Gothic or "archaic."
In what city was Andrea di Alessandro born? [SEP]
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]  Gregorio Selser (July 2, 1922 — August 27, 1991) was an Argentine journalist and historian. He published an extensive bibliography critical of globalization, imperialism, and covert operations implemented by the CIA in Latin America, in particular. Selser was born in Buenos Aires. He earned a degree in journalism at the University of Buenos Aires, and in 1955, was hired by the Uruguayan weekly journal, Marcha, as its chief Argentine correspondent. That year, he published his first book, a biography on Nicaraguan nationalist Augusto Sandino. He returned to Buenos Aires in 1956, and joined the editorial board of La Prensa. Selser joined the IPS news agency in 1964. He and his family left Argentina following the March 1976 coup, and was hired as researcher by the Latin American Institute of Latin
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]  Antonio Franz Theus "Tonio" Selmair-Selwart (June 9, 1896 &ndash; November 2, 2002) was a German actor and stage performer.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]  Prestopino was born in New York City's Little Italy. He was the second of three children born to Antonino Prestopino (1877–1937) and Letteria Rando (1866–1962), immigrants from Messina, Sicily, Italy. At the age of 14 he was awarded a scholarship to the National Academy of Design, with Charles Hawthorne. Early in his career he came under the influence of the French Impressionists, but was soon drawn to the American realists of the Ashcan School painters, whose work led him directly to the study of urban life. He won the 1972 Rome Prize.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]  Nicolas was born in Villalba del Alcor, Spain. Orphaned at age 5, Cerero moved to Seville. He studied at the University of Seville between 1881 and 1886, where he pursued a legal career. After graduating he worked as a journalist for several years.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]  Gregorio was born in San Francisco on September 11, 1931 to a family who has lived in California for four generations. He grew up in the Bernal Heights district until his family moved  to Burlingame, California, where he attended Hoover School, Burlingame High School and the College of San Mateo. Gregorio served as a U.S. Naval Air Officer for three years in the 1950s receiving the China Service Medal for combat duty. He received his bachelor's and law degrees from Stanford University in 1955. He was an adjunct faculty member at Stanford University, Notre Dame University in Belmont, and College of San Mateo.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP] Gregorio Selser  Gregorio Selser (July 2, 1922 — August 27, 1991) was an Argentine journalist and historian. He published an extensive bibliography critical of globalization, imperialism, and covert operations implemented by the CIA in Latin America, in particular.  Selser was born in Buenos Aires. He earned a degree in journalism at the University of Buenos Aires, and in 1955, was hired by the Uruguayan weekly journal, "Marcha", as its chief Argentine correspondent. That year, he published his first book, a biography on Nicaraguan nationalist Augusto Sandino. He returned to Buenos Aires in 1956, and joined the editorial board of "La Prensa". Selser joined the IPS news agency in 1964.  He and his family left Argentina following the March 1976 coup, and was hired as researcher by the Latin American Institute of Latin American Studies (ILET). His three daughters, Irene, Gabriela and Claudia Selser, each became journalists in their own right.  Selser was recognized by critics as "a Latin Americanist committed to freedom and justice." His books covered a wide array of contentious Latin American issues and events, including the 1903 Separation of Panama from Colombia, the installation of the Somoza dynasty in Nicaragua, the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état, the Alliance for Progress, the 1964 overthrow of Dominican Republic President Juan Bosch and the subsequent U.S. occupation, the 1973 coup in Chile, psy-ops carried out in Latin America, the 1980 Cocaine Coup in Bolivia, the Salvadoran Civil War, the 1989 Operation Just Cause, and other topics.  Selser would be afflicted with a terminal illness, and he committed suicide in Mexico City in 1991.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP] Enrique Krauze  Enrique Krauze (Mexico City, September 16, 1947) is a Mexican historian, essayist, editor, and entrepreneur. He has written more than twenty books, some of which are: "Mexico: Biography of Power", "Redeemers", and "El pueblo soy yo" ("I am the people"). He has also produced more than 500 television programs and documentaries about Mexico’s history. His biographical, historical works, and his political and literary essays, which have reached a broad audience, have made him famous.
In what city was Gregorio Selser born? [SEP]
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]  She was born on July 31, 1926, in Rome, Italy. At the age of eight, she moved to New York City with her widowed mother and two siblings. She attended Barnard College, graduating with a B.A. in English in 1947. She studied Italian literature under Giuseppe Prezzolini and Dino Bigongiari at Columbia University, receiving her M.A. in 1950. She spent a year as a Fulbright Scholar at the University of Rome. Her doctoral dissertation on The Women in Dante's Divine Comedy and Spenser's Faerie Queene earned her a Woodbridge Honorary Fellowship, and she received a Ph.D. in comparative literature from Columbia in 1963.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]  Burrell was born September 21, 1969, in Cazenovia, New York. She attended Canisius College in Buffalo and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts (BA) degree in English and Communications in 1991. A year later, Burrell enrolled at the Culinary Institute of America, eventually graduating in 1996 with an Associate in Occupational Studies (A.O.S.). She also studied at the Italian Culinary Institute for Foreigners in Asti in the Piedmont region.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]  Anne Lovi was born in Perth Amboy, New Jersey and raised in North Plainfield, New Jersey, the daughter of Amadeo M. Lovi and Rose F. Guarnieri Lovi. She had a twin sister, Louise. Her father ran a restaurant, and she worked in his kitchen as a girl. "I swore I would never get into food, and here I am," she recalled in 1988, while promoting her third cookbook. She graduated from North Plainfield High School in 1948, and attended a nearby secretarial school.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]  Anna Maria Enriques Agnoletti was born in Bologna. Her father Paolo Enriques was Jewish; her mother Maria Clotilde Agnoletti Fusconi was Catholic. Neither of her parents was religiously observant, so Anna Maria and her brother Enzo received a lay education. Her father was an important biologist who taught at various universities. Because of his job, the family moved to various Italian cities; he was in Naples, Sassari and finally in Florence. Anna Maria attended her studies at the Liceo Classico Michelangelo in Florence. In 1926 she began studying for her Letter and Philosophy degree. In 1930 she obtained her degree discussing her thesis with Nicolaj Ottokar.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]  Bancroft was born Anna Maria Louisa (or Luisa) Italiano in the Bronx, New York City, the middle of three daughters of Mildred (née DiNapoli), a telephone operator, and Michael G. Italiano, a dress pattern maker. Her parents were Italian immigrants. In an interview, she stated that her family was originally from Muro Lucano, in the province of Potenza. She was of Roman Catholic faith. Bancroft was raised in Little Italy, Bronx, in the Belmont neighborhood of the Bronx, attended P.S. 12, later moving to 1580 Zerega Ave. and graduating from Christopher Columbus High School in 1948. She later attended HB Studio, the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, the Actors Studio and the American Film Institute's Directing Workshop for Women at the University of California, Los Angeles. After appearing in a number of live television dramas, including Studio One and The Goldbergs under the name Anne Marno, later, at Darryl Zanuck's insistence, she chose the less Mediterranean surname of Bancroft "because it sounded dignified".
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP] Anne Brusletto  Anne Brusletto (born 24 January 1951) is a Norwegian alpine skier. She was born in Geilo. She participated at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, where she competed in slalom and giant slalom.  She became Norwegian champion in giant slalom in 1970.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP] Hol  Hol is a municipality in Viken county, Norway.
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]
In what city was Anne Brusletto born? [SEP]
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP]  Arthur Campbell Thomson (2 September 1948 – 7 March 2002) was a Scottish footballer, who played as a central defender in the Football League. He was born in Edinburgh.
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP]  He was born in Edinburgh on 8 October 1890 the son of John Arthur Thomson FRSE and his wife Margaret Stewart. The family lived at 10 Kilmaurs Road. He was educated at the Royal High School, Edinburgh until 1899, when his father moved to Aberdeen as Professor of Natural History at Aberdeen University. Arthur completed his education at Aberdeen Grammar School. The family then lived at 15 Chanonry in Aberdeen. Arthur then studied Natural History (under his own father) at Aberdeen University, graduating MA in 1911. In the First World War he served as a Lt Colonel in the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders. He received a Military OBE for his services. After the war (from 1919) he became a medical researcher and remained in this role until retiral in 1957. He was created
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP]  He was born at Pilmuir east of East Saltoun, East Lothian, the second son of Isabella Landsborough (1828-1905) and the Rev Arthur Thomson (1823-1881), a minister in the Free Church of Scotland, originally from Muckhart. He studied natural history at the University of Edinburgh graduating with an MA in 1880. He had already established a reputation as a worthy scientist within his first years and in 1887, aged 25, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were Patrick Geddes, J. T. Cunningham, Sir John Murray and Robert McNair Ferguson. He taught at the Royal (Dick) Veterinary College from 1893 until 1899 then University of Aberdeen from 1899 until 1930 as Regius Professor of Natural History (Aberdeen),
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP]  Sir Arthur Peregrine Thomson MC, LLD, MD, FRCP (1890 – 15 July 1977) was a British physician. Born in British Guiana the son of Arthur Henry Thomson, a colonial civil servant, he was educated at Dulwich College and Birmingham University, where he graduated in 1915 with first class honours in medicine, surgery and midwifery. He was also awarded the gold medal in clinical medicine, the Russell Memorial Prize, and was both Queen's and Ingleby Scholar. After graduation, he joined the Royal Army Medical Corps as a Captain and served as a Regimental Medical Officer with the Guards Division in France during World War I, where he was awarded the Military Cross and the Croix de Guerre, and was Mentioned in Despatches twice by the British and once by the French. After the war he was appointed Assistant Physician at
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP]  Thomson was born in Kansas City, Missouri. As a child he befriended Alice Smith, great-granddaughter of Joseph Smith, founder of the Latter-day Saint movement. During his youth he often played the organ in Grace Church, (now Grace and Holy Trinity Cathedral), as his piano teacher was the church's organist. After World War I, he entered Harvard University thanks to a loan from Dr. Fred M. Smith, the president of the Reorganized Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, and father of Alice Smith. His tours of Europe with the Harvard Glee Club helped nurture his desire to return there. At
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP] Arthur Thompson (gangster)  Arthur Thompson (September 1931 – 13 March 1993) was a Scottish gangster who was active in Glasgow from the 1950s and took charge of organised crime in the city for over thirty years.
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP] Arthur Thomson (footballer, born 1948)  Arthur Campbell Thomson (2 September 1948 – 7 March 2002) was a Scottish footballer, who played as a central defender in the Football League. He was born in Edinburgh.
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP] Arthur Thomson (naturalist)  Sir John Arthur Thomson (8 July 1861 – 12 February 1933) was a Scottish naturalist who authored several notable books and was an expert on soft corals.
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP] Arthur Thomson (physician)  Sir Arthur Peregrine Thomson MC, LLD, MD, FRCP (1890 – 15 July 1977) was a British physician.  Born in British Guiana the son of Arthur Henry Thomson, a colonial civil servant, he was educated at Dulwich College and Birmingham University, where he graduated in 1915 with first class honours in medicine, surgery and midwifery. He was also awarded the gold medal in clinical medicine, the Russell Memorial Prize, and was both Queen's and Ingleby Scholar.  After graduation, he joined the Royal Army Medical Corps as a Captain and served as a Regimental Medical Officer with the Guards Division in France during World War I, where he was awarded the Military Cross and the Croix de Guerre, and was Mentioned in Despatches twice by the British and once by the French.<ref name=dulwich/><ref name=times/><ref name=bmj/> After the war he was appointed Assistant Physician at Birmingham General Hospital, where he was elected MRCP in 1920 and obtained his MD in 1923. He worked as a physician all his life specialising in diabetes. At the Birmingham Children's Hospital he took special interest in Rheumatic Fever and the Baskerville School for children with rheumatic heart disease. Later in life he focussed his research activity on to ageing and chronic sickness, giving the Lumleian Lectures on the subject in 1949. He had been elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in 1930 and gave their Harveian Oration in 1961.  In 1947 Birmingham University appointed him part-time Professor of Therapeutics, after which he became Dean of the Medical Faculty and in 1952 vice-principal of the University. He was knighted in 1959.  He married Minnie Scott Hutchings (née Lindsley) in Birmingham in 1912; they had one adopted daughter.
In what city was Arthur Thomson born? [SEP] Arthur Thomson (footballer, born 1903)  Arthur Thomson (July 1903 – "unknown") was an English footballer who played as a forward. Born in West Stanley, County Durham, he played for West Stanley, Craghead United, Morecambe, Southend United and Manchester United.
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]  Born to father Milorad, and mother Gordana, in the village of Dragutinovo (before it merged with Beodra into Novo Miloševo), Žeravica's education started in his village and continued in Kikinda, where he traveled every day by train. His family stemmed from Herzegovina by ancestry, having moved several generations before his birth to the Mošorin area, where they became wealthy farmers and land owners.
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP] Silver Mermaid and Roberto Paolela (Naples, 1975) – Testament ; Bronze Palm (Valencia, 1989) – Čavka ; Lokarno, 1979 - Kvar' Miloš "Miša" Radivojević (born 3 November 1939) is a television and movie director, and a professor at the Faculty of Dramatic Arts, Belgrade Miloš was born in 1939 in Čačak, Serbia. He started his higher education as a philosophy student and graduated in 1966 from Faculty of Dramatic Arts in Belgrade in 1966, as one of the first students of Aleksandar Petrović with the medium length film Adam & Eva 66. He worked as assistant director under Puriša Đorđević between 1961
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]  Milošević was born in Titograd, SR Montenegro, SFR Yugoslavia as the elder son of mother Vera and father Peka. He has a younger brother Velibor. He spent his childhood in Nikšić where he actively played football for Sutjeska. At the age of sixteen he became a student in the first generation of the Faculty of Dramatic Arts in Cetinje. In the second year of studies he had first major role in theater and then he collaborated with theater director Milan Karadžić. In Montenegro, he played in various shows. He moved to Belgrade in 2000, at the invitation of Svetozar Cvetković, who engaged him in Atelje 212 in show Coat of a dirty man. In 2003, he began working in a TV series Gej Brak with director Milan Afrojack and writer Stevan Koprivica. Montenegrin director Marija Perović awarded him with the lead role in the film Opet pakujemo majmune. In 2005, he founded the Udruženje ljubitelja filma production company in Podgorica. He is the host of the Serbian version of the reality-show Survivor.
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]  He was born in Svilajnac, in Resava, on 26 July 1865 (Old Style) to Teodor and Jelena Savčić. His father was a well-to-do merchant. In his hometown, he finished both elementary school and high school, and in Belgrade, in 1885 he graduated with a B.Sc. from Grandes écoles. For his post-graduate studies, he went to Germany and enrolled at the Technical University of Munich. In 1889 he graduated from the master's program in Civil Engineering. His professor was Carl von Linde.
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]  Born in Kragujevac in central Serbia, but have never actually lived there, Krstić spent his infant years living in Priština, until NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999. Apart from playing football, he had simultaneously attending education and got a diploma of a Faculty of Traffic and Transport Engineering at University of Belgrade.
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP]
In what city was Miloš Žeravica born? [SEP] List of people from Serbia  List of people from Serbia is a list of notable people from Serbia. The list contains names of people who are associated with Serbia and its territory by their place of birth, and also by naturalization, domicile, citizenship or some other similar connection, modern or historical. List is territorially defined, and includes all people from Serbia, regardless of their ethnic, linguistic, religious or some other personal distinctions.     "See: List of Serbian Revolutionaries"       "For Serbian American military personnel, see" this list    For Serbian-American American football players, see this list; for baseball players, see this list.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP]  Giovanni Speranza (c. 1470 – 1540s) was an Italian painter. He was born and was active in Vicenza, where he was a follower of Benedetto Montagna. His exact birth and death years are not confirmed with one claiming he was born in 1480 and died in 1546. He is mentioned briefly by Giorgio Vasari, in his entry on Jacopo Sansovino. He later claims both Montagna and Speranza were pupils of Andrea Mantegna. It is unclear if he is related to the Baroque painter Giovanni Battista Speranza.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP]  Roberto Speranza was born in Potenza, Basilicata, in 1979. During the 2000s he graduated in political science at the Luiss Guido Carli of Rome.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP]  Giovanni Speranza (born 6 March 1982 in Giessen) is a German-Italian footballer.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP]  Giovanni Frezza was born in Potenza, Basilicata, Italy.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP]  Alessandro Speranza (1728 - 17 November 1797) was an Italian composer. His opera I due Figaro was very popular during his lifetime and enjoyed revivals in Italy after his death well into the 19th century; including at La Scala in 1840 with Raffaele Scalese in the title role.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP] Giovanni Speranza  Giovanni Speranza (born 6 March 1982 in Giessen) is a German-Italian footballer.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP] Giovanni Speranza de' Vajenti  Giovanni Speranza (c. 1470 – 1540s) was an Italian painter. He was born and was active in Vicenza, where he was a follower of Benedetto Montagna. His exact birth and death years are not confirmed with one claiming he was born in 1480 and died in 1546.  He is mentioned briefly by Giorgio Vasari, in his entry on Jacopo Sansovino. He later claims both Montagna and Speranza were pupils of Andrea Mantegna. It is unclear if he is related to the Baroque painter Giovanni Battista Speranza.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP] Benedetto Montagna  Benedetto Montagna (c. 1480–1555/58) was an Italian engraver and painter. Montagna was born in Vicenza, the son of the leading painter of the city, Bartolomeo Montagna, with whom he trained and perhaps continued to work. His approximately 53 engravings seem to have been produced in the period from about 1500 until his father died in 1523 and he inherited the workshop; in these years he was "the most prolific engraver of his generation in northern Italy". He ran the workshop into at least the 1540s, but his paintings fell behind the development of Italian styles as they largely follow his father's style, less successfully. Many do not survive. His prints are generally found more significant by art historians.  He engraved primarily subjects from classical mythology, with a middle period with many religious subjects in about 1506–12.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP] Marcello Fogolino  Marcello Fogolino (active 1510–1548) was an Italian painter of the Renaissance or Mannerist style. Originally from San Vito in the Friuli, he worked early in his life he worked in Vicenza, under the painter Bartolomeo Montagna. He was also influenced by Giovanni Speranza and Pordenone.  Returning to Friuli in 1520–21, he came to reflect the painterly style of "Il Pordenone". He completed a painting of "Saints Francis and John the Baptist with Prophet Daniel" for the Duomo in Pordenone.  He was banished from Venetian territories, along with his brother the architect Matteo, for complicity in a murder in 1527, and went to Trento. In Trento, he befriended the bishop Bernardo Clesio, which gave the brothers some protection. It appears that they became informants for the Venetian Republic, and finally were allowed to return to the Veneto. He painted frescoes in the Tridentine region, including Castel Buonconsiglio, Castello Malpaga, Villa Salvotti, and Palazzo Sardagna. He was also an engraver.
In what city was Giovanni Speranza born? [SEP] Felice Romani  Giuseppe Felice Romani (31 January 178828 January 1865) was an Italian poet and scholar of literature and mythology who wrote many librettos for the opera composers Donizetti and Bellini. Romani was considered the finest Italian librettist between Metastasio and Boito.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]  Anton Lui (born July 27, 1985 in Rabaul, East New Britain) is a sprinter from Papua New Guinea.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]  Lui was born in Milan, Italy. Lui has a degree in physical education from the University of Verona. He began his career about 18 years performing in certain places as a cabaret artist and imitator of Michael Jackson, and later as a tourist entertainer. He later made some television appearances as a guest for Mediaset programs, including "Beato fra le donne", "Rose Rosse", "La febbre del sabato sera" e "Sotto a chi tocca" Since autumn 2005 creates the screens of Italy 1 to the character of Mr. Lui, a mime in a very short gag comic that appears just before the end of advertising aimed at children (morning and afternoon). The short vignettes are inspired by the comic
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]  Anton (Chinese: 魏兴安 Goei Hing An) was born in Malang on 31 December 1965 from Goei Heng An and Sumiati. He worked as a driver throughout high school and when he was studying at a university in Surabaya, and continued to do so after dropping out due to financial reasons.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]  Lui was born in Guangzhou. His father, Lui Can Ming, was also a painter. He studied economics at Guangzhou University. He moved to Hong Kong in 1948. While there, he worked as an inspector for the Hongkong and Yaumati Ferry Company until 1966.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]  Anton Muscatelli was born on 1 January 1962 in Italy to Ambrogio and Rosellina Muscatelli. His father, who was head of a shipping company, relocated the family first to Holland and then to Glasgow. Anton was educated at The High School of Glasgow and the University of Glasgow, where he graduated M.A. (Hons) in Political Economy (1984) and took a PhD in Economics (1989). He was a Lecturer and Senior Lecturer at the University of Glasgow from 1984 to 1992, and Daniel Jack Professor of Political Economy from 1992 until 2007. He was Dean of the Faculty of Social Sciences, 2000 to 2004, and Vice-Principal (Strategy, Budgeting and Advancement) from 2004 until 2007.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP] Anton Lui  Anton Lui (born July 27, 1985 in Rabaul, East New Britain) is a sprinter from Papua New Guinea.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP] Anton Pann  Anton Pann (; born Antonie Pantoleon-Petroveanu , and also mentioned as "Anton Pantoleon" or "Petrovici"; 1790s—2 November 1854) was an Ottoman-born Wallachian composer, musicologist, and Romanian-language poet, also noted for his activities as a printer, translator, and schoolteacher. Pann was an influential folklorist and collector of proverbs, as well as a lexicographer and textbook author.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP]
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP] Antonie van Leeuwenhoek  Antonie Philips van Leeuwenhoek ( ; ; 24 October 1632 – 26 August 1723) was a Dutch microbiologist and microscopist in the Golden Age of Dutch science and technology. A largely self-taught man in science, he is commonly known as "the Father of Microbiology", and one of the first microscopists and microbiologists. Van Leeuwenhoek is best known for his pioneering work in microscopy and for his contributions toward the establishment of microbiology as a scientific discipline.  Raised in Delft, Dutch Republic, van Leeuwenhoek worked as a draper in his youth and founded his own shop in 1654. He became well recognized in municipal politics and developed an interest in lensmaking. In the 1670s, he started to explore microbial life with his microscope. This was one of the notable achievements of the Golden Age of Dutch exploration and discovery ().  Using single-lensed microscopes of his own design and make, van Leeuwenhoek was the first to observe and to experiment with microbes, which he originally referred to as "dierkens", "diertgens" or "diertjes" (Dutch for "small animals" [translated into English as "animalcules", from Latin "animalculum" = "tiny animal"]). He was the first to relatively determine their size. Most of the "animalcules" are now referred to as unicellular organisms, although he observed multicellular organisms in pond water. He was also the first to document microscopic observations of muscle fibers, bacteria, spermatozoa, red blood cells, crystals in gouty tophi, and among the first to see blood flow in capillaries. Although van Leeuwenhoek did not write any books, he described his discoveries in letters to the Royal Society, which published many of his letters, and to persons in several European countries.
In what city was Anton Lui born? [SEP] Lui (surname)  Lui is a surname in various cultures. It may be a variant spelling of two Chinese surnames ( Léi and Lǚ), as well as an Italian surname. The surname Lui can also be found on various Pacific Islands.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP]  Paul James Walker (born 17 December 1960) is an English former professional footballer who played as a midfielder in the Football League for Brentford and is the club's youngest-ever debutant. He captained England Schoolboys and later managed in non-League football.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP]  Paul Walker (born 18 April 1992) is an English-born Wales international footballer who is currently plays for AFC Sudbury after playing a spell at Haverhill Borough and Kettering after being released by Northampton Town. He plays as a goalkeeper.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP]  Walker was born on September 12, 1973 in Glendale, California. He had mostly English, as well as German, Swiss, and Irish ancestry. His mother, Cheryl (née Crabtree), was a fashion model, and his father, Paul William Walker III, was a sewer contractor and former amateur boxer, who was a two-time Golden Gloves champion. Walker's paternal grandfather, William, had a short-lived boxing career as "Irish" Billy Walker, while another raced factory cars for Ford in the 1960s. Raised a Mormon, Walker had four younger siblings: Aimee, Ashlie, Caleb, and Cody. He spent the majority of his early life in the Sunland neighborhood of Los Angeles, and graduated from Village Christian School in 1991. Walker subsequently attended several community colleges in Southern California, majoring in marine biology.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP]  Walker was born in Franklin, Georgia, on October 22, 1935. In 1941, several years after his father's passing, Walker's family moved to Harlem where he was inspired by the urban life around him. Walker mentions people-watching from his apartment building's sixth story fire escape, experiences taking the train as a southerner in a large city, and his 145th street community as some of the major inspirations behind his work.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP]  He has played for the Wales national under-17 football team, having been capped twice and has been called up to the Under 19 national team.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP] Paul Walker  Paul William Walker IV (September 12, 1973 – November 30, 2013) was an American actor. He was known for his role as Brian O'Conner in the "Fast & Furious" franchise.  Walker began his career as a child actor in the 1980s, gaining recognition in the 1990s after appearing in the television soap opera "The Young and the Restless"; he received praise for his performances in the teen comedy "She's All That" and the comedy-drama "Varsity Blues" (both 1999), and saw international fame by starring in "The Fast and the Furious" (2001).  Walker also starred in the commercially successful road thriller "Joy Ride" (2001), becoming an action star. He followed this with the box-office disappointments "Into the Blue" (2005) and "Running Scared" (2006), although he earned praise for his performance in the survival drama "Eight Below", and for his portrayal of Hank Hansen in "Flags of Our Fathers" (both 2006). Outside of these, Walker largely appeared in low budget action films, but starred in the commercially successful heist film "Takers" (2010).  Walker died of injuries sustained from a single-vehicle collision on November 30, 2013, while speeding. His father and daughter filed separate wrongful death lawsuits against Porsche, which resulted in settlements. At the time of his death, Walker had not completed filming "Furious 7" (2015); it was released after rewrites and stand-ins, including his brothers Cody and Caleb, both of whom filled in for Walker, while the song "See You Again" by Wiz Khalifa and Charlie Puth was commissioned as a tribute.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP] Kyle Walker  Kyle Andrew Walker (born 28 May 1990) is an English professional footballer who plays as a right-back for club Manchester City and the England national team.  Walker started his career at his boyhood club Sheffield United which he had joined at the age of seven. He was promoted to the first-team where he made his full Sheffield United debut at 18 years old against Leyton Orient after a loan spell at Northampton Town. He impressed whilst playing for the Blades and played in the 2009 Championship play-off final in their defeat against Burnley. His performances earned him a move to Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur, before being immediately loaned back to Sheffield United. After further loan spells at Queens Park Rangers and Aston Villa, he cemented his place in Tottenham's first team. His performances earned him a call-up to the England national team where he made his debut against Spain. After five more seasons at Tottenham, Walker joined Manchester City for a fee of £45 million. He has since won four Premier League titles, four EFL Cup trophies and one FA Cup whilst at City. He has also played for England at UEFA Euro 2016, the 2018 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2020. He has been named in the PFA Team of the Year three times in: 2011–12, 2016–17 and 2017–18.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP] Cody Walker (actor)  Cody Beau Walker (born June 13, 1988) is an American actor. He is the youngest brother of actor Paul Walker, and helped complete the final scenes for his character Brian O'Conner in the film "Furious 7" (2015) following his brother's death. Walker made his acting debut in "Abandoned Mine" (2013).<ref name="Abandoned Mine"/> He went on to appear in films "" (2016)<ref name="nydailynews"/><ref name="RFord"/> and "The Last Full Measure" (2020).
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP] Matthew Walker (scientist)  Matthew Paul Walker is an English scientist and professor of neuroscience and psychology at the University of California, Berkeley. He is a public intellectual focused on the subject of sleep.  As an academic, Walker has focused on the impact of sleep on human health. He has contributed to many scientific research studies.  Walker became a public intellectual following the publication of "Why We Sleep", his first work of popular science, in 2017. It became an international bestseller.
In what city was Paul Walker born? [SEP] Paul Walker (footballer, born 1992)  Paul Walker (born 18 April 1992) is an English-born Wales international footballer who is currently plays for AFC Sudbury after playing a spell at Haverhill Borough and Kettering after being released by Northampton Town. He plays as a goalkeeper.
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]  Kristian McGrady Outinen (born January 23, 1983) is a Danish swimmer. He is a current member of the Danish national swimming team. Outinen is a Danish national record holder in both the 100 meter individual medley (IM) and the 50 meter breaststroke. He currently swims for the Vestegnens Aqua Team (VAT) based out of Copenhagen. Outinen attended the University of Kentucky receiving his degree in liberal arts specializing in classical guitar. He completed his degree in three and a half years. Outinen was named to the Deans list in 2005 having a GPA of 4.0 for the semester. Outinen was an integral part of the University of Kentucky varsity swim team. His versatility was widely recognized and cherished by the coaches. He was especially close
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]  Kristian Meurman (born 6 November 1979 in Espoo), is a Finnish singer. He was a finalist in the third series of the Finnish Idols in 2007. His first album Ensiaskeleet (translation: The first steps) was released in 2007. He also participated in the qualifying of the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 with a song called "Jos en sua saa" (translation: If I can't have you).
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP] Kati Outinen (born 1961), Finnish actress ; Mikko Outinen (born 1971), Finnish ice hockey player ; Kristian Outinen (born 1983), Danish swimmer Outinen is a Finnish surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]  Kristian Valter Alexander Gullichsen (29 September 1932, in Helsinki – 17 March 2021, in Helsinki ) was a Finnish architect. The son of Harry and Maire Gullichsen, he was born into a family of industrialists, designers and artists. His siblings were the renowned Finnish philosopher Lilli Alanen and Johan Gullichsen, a professor of engineering. Kristian Gullichsen had three sons and two daughters, one of the sons was the artist Alvar Gullichsen (born 1961). Gullichsen was married twice; his second wife was architect Kirsi Gullichsen (née Parkkinen) (born 1964). Kristian Gullichsen was a member of the board of governors of the Alvar Aalto Academy and the committee of the Alvar Aalto Symposium. From 1988 to 1993 he held the title of Finnish State Artist Professor.
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]  The Gullichsen family home was the world-famous Villa Mairea (1938–39) in Noormarkku, designed by Alvar Aalto, one of the seminal houses of 20th century modernist architecture. Kristian was seven years old when his family moved into the house in August 1939. The family was close friends of the Aalto family, and Aalto was responsible for designing the company factories and communities, as part of the company ideology of enculturation. Kristian played with the Aalto children and did odd jobs in the Aalto architects' office.
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP] Kristian Outinen  Kristian McGrady Outinen (born January 23, 1983) is a Danish swimmer. He is a current member of the Danish national swimming team. Outinen is a Danish national record holder in both the 100 meter individual medley (IM) and the 50 meter breaststroke. He currently swims for the Vestegnens Aqua Team (VAT) based out of Copenhagen.  Outinen attended the University of Kentucky receiving his degree in liberal arts specializing in classical guitar. He completed his degree in three and a half years. Outinen was named to the Deans list in 2005 having a GPA of 4.0 for the semester. Outinen was an integral part of the University of Kentucky varsity swim team. His versatility was widely recognized and cherished by the coaches. He was especially close with the weight training staff. Kristian still holds top ten times in five events for the Wildcats.  The yard based training provided a perfect background for Outinen's return to Europe's 25 meter based events. After returning from the United States, Outinen resumed swimming and quickly excelled on the national scene. In October 2008 he broke his first Danish national record in the 50 meter breaststroke in Kolding, Denmark. He then proceeded to also break the 100 meter IM national record at the same meet. In December 2008 Outinen broke his own record in the 50 meter breaststroke at the European Short Course Championships in Rijeka, Croatia.  Outinen later joined a Danish progressive metal band, BOIL. BOIL released aXiom, a critically acclaimed album, on February 19, 2013.
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP] Outinen  Outinen is a Finnish surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP] List of Finns  This is a list of notable people from Finland. Finland is a Nordic country located between Sweden, Norway and Russia.
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]
In what city was Kristian Outinen born? [SEP]
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP]  Matthijs, Matthias or Matheus van Dulcken (died 1634 in Winterswijk) was mayor of Roermond in 1610, 1616 and 1629. In 1627 he was the Spanish governor of Grol (Groenlo), and Licensor of Upper Guelders. He commanded Groenlo during the 1627 siege by Frederick Henry and, though wounded by a musket ball, he survived the battle and on 19 August that year signed the agreement that handed the town over to States troops. After his final year as mayor in 1629 he served for a period as schepen. He married Helwich van Wessum and they had one son, Christophorus, in 1593.
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP]  Jr. (born 1965), Dutch filmmaker ; Matthijs Huizing (born 1960), Dutch politician ; O. J. Matthijs Jolles (1911–1968) American translator from German ; Matthijs Kleyn (born 1979), Dutch television presenter ; Matthijs Langhedul (died circa 1636), Flemish organ builder ; Matthijs de Ligt (born 1999), Dutch footballer ; Matthijs Maris (1839–1917), Dutch painter ; Matthijs van Miltenburg (born 1972), Dutch politician ; Matthijs Musson (1598–1678), Dutch painter ; Matthijs Naiveu (1647–1726), Dutch painter ; Matthijs van Nieuwkerk (born 1960), Dutch television presenter ; Matthijs Pool (1676–1732), Dutch engraver ; Matthijs Quast (died 1641), Dutch explorer ; Matthijs Röling (born 1943), Dutch
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP] Matthijs/Matthys ; Matthijs Accama (1702–1783), Dutch painter ; Matthijs Balen (1684–1766), Dutch painter ; Matthijs van den Bergh (1618–1687), Dutch painter ; Matthijs van den Bos (born 1969), Dutch academic ; Mattijs Branderhorst (born 1993), Dutch footballer ; Matthijs Bril (1550–1583), Flemish painter ; Matthijs Brouwer (born 1980), Dutch field hockey player ; Matthijs Büchli (born 1992), Dutch track cyclist ; Matthijs Clavan (1929–1983), Dutch footballer ; Matthijs Cock (c.1505–1548), Flemish landscape painter and draughtsman ; Matthijs van Dulcken (c.1560s–1634), Dutch mayor and governor ; Matthijs Harings (1593–1667), Dutch painter ; Matthijs van Heijningen (born 1944), Dutch film producer ; Matthijs van
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP] Derk Holman (1916 in Buitenpost – 1982 in Groningen) a Dutch sculptor and ceramist ; Louw de Graaf (born 1930 in Kootstertille) a retired Dutch politician and trade union leader. ; Gerriet Postma (1932 in Twijzelerheide – 2009) a Dutch painter ; Johannes Lützen Bouma (born 1934 in Twijzelerheide) a Dutch economist and academic ; David Porcelijn (born 1947 in Achtkarspelen) a Dutch composer and conductor ; Joop Atsma (born 1956 in Surhuisterveen) a Dutch politician and sport administrator. ; Meindert Talma (born 1968 in Surhuisterveen) a Dutch lo-fi singer and keyboardist ; Oedo Kuipers (born 1989 in Stroobos) a Dutch singer and actor in musical theatre
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP]  Bolkestein was born on March 13, 1972 in the North Holland city Haarlem and grew up in the nearby villages Overveen and Bloemendaal. He attended the Stedelijk Gymnasium Haarlem before studying economics at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam between 1990 and 1997. During the last one and a half years of his study, he worked as financial manager at Russia Travel.
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP]
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP]
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP] Matthijs Vermeulen Matthijs Vermeulen (born Matheas Christianus Franciscus van der Meulen) (8 February 1888 – 26 July 1967), was a Dutch composer and music journalist. Matthijs Vermeulen was born in Helmond. After primary school he initially wanted to follow in the footsteps of his father, who was a blacksmith. During a serious illness his inclination towards the spiritual gained the upper hand. Inspired by a thoroughly Catholic environment, he decided to become a priest. However, at the seminary, where he learned about the principles of counterpoint of the sixteenth-century polyphonic masters, his true calling – music – came to light.
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP] Matthijs van de Sande Bakhuyzen Matthijs Nicolaas van de Sande Bakhuyzen (born 16 October 1988) is a Dutch movie and television actor and former child actor. Van de Sande Bakhuyzen was born on 16 October 1988 in Amsterdam, the son of movie director Willem van de Sande Bakhuyzen. In 1992 his little sister Roeltje van de Sande Bakhuyzen, who is also an actress, was born. His big break was in 1999, when he got the role of Erik in the VPRO television series "De Daltons". He later played small roles in several films directed by his father, including "Cloaca" (2003)
In what city was Matthijs Dulken born? [SEP] remained for the rest of his life; he is last mentioned in 1835. His daughter-in-law was Sophie Dulcken. Dulcken The Dulcken family were Flemish harpsichord makers of German origin. Joannes Daniel Dulcken (21 April 1706 – 11 April 1757) was born in Wingeshausen, the son of Georg Ludwig Dulcken (died Wingeshausen, before 1752). In 1736 he was in Maastricht, but by 1738 he had moved with his wife Susanna Maria Knopffell and their son to Antwerp where they became members of the Reformed church. He became an alderman in 1744, and lived in Hopland. He travelled to England in 1750
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]  Michael Hofmann was born in Freiburg, West Germany into a family with a literary tradition. His father was the German novelist Gert Hofmann (died 1993). His maternal grandfather edited the Brockhaus Enzyklopädie. Hofmann's family first moved to Bristol in 1961, and later to Edinburgh. He was educated at Winchester College, and then studied English Literature and Classics at Magdalene College, Cambridge, graduating with a BA in 1979 and an MA in 1984. In 1983 Hofmann started working as a freelance writer, translator, and literary critic. He has since gone on to hold visiting professorships at the University of Michigan, Rutgers University, the New School University, Barnard College, and Columbia University. He was first a visitor to the University of Florida in 1990, joined the faculty in 1994, and became full-time in 2009. He has been teaching poetry and translation workshops. In 2008, Hofmann was Poet-in-Residence in the state of Queensland in Australia. Hofmann has two sons, Max (1991) and Jakob (1993). He splits his time between Hamburg and Gainesville, Florida.
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]  Hofmann was born in Plauen, a mid-sized town in central southern Germany approximately 100 miles (160 km) south-west of Dresden. His father was a locksmith and his mother worked in a factory. On leaving school Hofmann got a job helping out in the market. In 1921 he undertook an apprenticeship, and then took a series of jobs as a locksmith/machinist and in related trades. He relocated several times in the 1920s, working successively in Thuringia, Bavaria and the Ruhr region. Between 1927 and 1929 he lived in The Netherlands, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Yugoslavia and, finally, Bulgaria. He then returned to Germany, taking a job in Hamburg with the shipbuilders Blohm + Voss in 1929/30. A period of unemployment followed.
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]  Hofmann was born in Marienbad, German Sudetenland (now modern Mariánské Lázně, Czech Republic), and grew up in Darmstadt. In his youth, before receiving any training in classical music, he was a singer in a rock band. He served seven years in the West German Armed Forces, during which time he began studying singing privately. After being honorably discharged with a financial bonus, he entered the Hochschule für Musik Karlsruhe where he was trained as an opera singer.
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]  Hofmann was born in 1974 in Tübingen, West Germany, and grew up in Schwäbisch Hall. His father is German, his mother was American, and in his early life he spent summers with his cousins in Indiana.
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]  Hofmann was born in the Bensberg district of Bergisch Gladbach and grew up in Cologne. His first experience in front of the camera was for Servicezeit, an evening magazine programme on WDR Fernsehen television network. He appeared in a section of the programme, Die Ausflieger, which tested family recreational activities. After two and a half years at Servicezeit, he decided to become an actor and applied to an acting agency. He was subsequently represented by Agentur Schwarz. In 2009 Hofmann guest-starred in legal comedy-drama Danni Lowinski and television series Der verlorene Vater. He also appeared in the television film Tod in Istanbul. In 2010 he performed in Wilsberg and Alarm for
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP] Sebastian Hofmann  Sebastian Hofmann (born 12 September 1983) is a former professional footballer who played as a forward who plays for GSV Maichingen.
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]
In what city was Sebastian Hofmann born? [SEP]
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]  Flechtheim was born in Nikolaev (then Russian Empire, now Mykolaiv, Ukraine), into a Jewish family, the son of bookseller Herrmann Flechtheim (1880–1960) and his wife Olga, née Farber (1884–1964). In 1910 the family moved back into the father's hometown of Westphalian Münster, where his relatives had a grain trade business, and later to Düsseldorf. The art dealer Alfred Flechtheim was his uncle. His family being secular, Flechtheim did not receive religious upbringing. In later life (after Second World War in West Berlin) he became a member (as a non-denominational humanist) of the German Freethinkers Association (later Humanist Association of Germany).
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]  Ossietzky was born in Hamburg, the son of Carl Ignatius von Ossietzky (1848–1891), a Protestant from Upper Silesia; and Rosalie (née Pratzka), a devout Catholic who wanted her son to enter Holy Orders and become a priest or monk. His father worked as a stenographer in the office of a lawyer and of Senator Max Predöhl, but died when Ossietzky was two years old. Ossietzky was baptized as a Roman Catholic in Hamburg on 10 November 1889 and confirmed in the Lutheran Hauptkirche St Michaelis on 23 March 1904. The von in Ossietzky's name, which would generally suggest noble ancestry, is of unknown origin.
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]  Verner von Heidenstam was born in Olshammar, Örebro County on 6 July 1859 to a noble family. Von Heidenstam was the son of Gustaf von Heidenstam, an engineer, and Magdalena Charlotta von Heidenstam (née Rütterskiöld). He was educated at Beskowska skolan in Stockholm. He studied painting in the Academy of Stockholm, but soon left because of ill health. He then traveled extensively in Europe, Africa and the orient.
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]  driver born here ; Vasil Radoslavov (1854–1929), Bulgarian Prime Minister ; José Rizal (1861–1896), national hero of the Philippines ; Khalid Robinson (born 1998), American singer ; Christiane Schmidtmer (1939–2003), Hollywood actress and model ; Bernd Schmitt (born 1957), marketing professor at Columbia University ; Klaus Schütz (1926–2012), politician (SPD) ; Elisabeth Seitz (born 1993), Olympic gymnast ; Silvia Renate Sommerlath (born 1943), Queen of Sweden ; Albert Speer (1905–1981), German architect and Third Reich minister ; Ferdinand Thomas (1913–1944), resistance fighter ; Ashley Wagner (born 1991), American figure skater ; Karl Philipp von Wrede (1767–1838), Bavarian field marshal ; Jon Osterman (1929–2019), fictional character from the book Watchmen and its HBO sequel series
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]  Hans Henning Baron von Voight was born of German nobility in Karlsruhe. In his youth he joined a circus and learned mime Shortly after leaving school he studied philosophy at Marburg University where he met the writer Boris Pasternak. He was self-taught as an artist, and he was also a proficient dancer and pianist. He died in Munich in 1969.
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP]
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP] Bamberg  Bamberg (, , ; East Franconian: "Bambärch") is a town in Upper Franconia, Germany, on the river Regnitz close to its confluence with the river Main. The town dates back to the 9th century, when its name was derived from the nearby "" castle. Cited as one of Germany's most beautiful towns, with medieval streets and Europe's largest intact old city wall, the old town of Bamberg has been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1993.  From the 10th century onwards, Bamberg became a key link with the Slav peoples, notably those of Poland and Pomerania. It experienced a period of great prosperity from the 12th century onwards, during which time it was briefly the centre of the Holy Roman Empire. Emperor Henry II was also buried in the old town, alongside his wife Kunigunde. The town's architecture from this period strongly influenced that in Northern Germany and Hungary. From the middle of the 13th century onwards, the bishops were princes of the Empire<ref name="EB1911" /> and ruled Bamberg, overseeing the construction of monumental buildings. This growth was complemented by the obtaining of large portions of the estates of the Counts of Meran in 1248 and 1260 by the see, partly through purchase and partly through the appropriation of extinguished fiefs.  Bamberg lost its independence in 1802, following the secularization of church lands, becoming part of Bavaria in 1803. The town was first connected to the German rail system in 1844, which has been an important part of its infrastructure ever since. After a communist uprising took control over Bavaria in the years following World War I, the state government fled to Bamberg and stayed there for almost two years before the Bavarian capital of Munich was retaken by "Freikorps" units (see Bavarian Soviet Republic). The first republican constitution of Bavaria was passed in Bamberg, becoming known as the "Bamberger Verfassung" (Bamberg Constitution).  Following the Second World War, Bamberg was an important base for the Bavarian, German, and then American military stationed at Warner Barracks, until closing in 2014.
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP] Mérite for Sciences and Arts in 1915. Angeli was born in 1840 in Ödenburg, then part of the Austrian empire, now known as Sopron in Hungary. He studied at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna, the Kunstakademie Düsseldorf, and in Munich, before moving back to Vienna in 1862. From 1870 he travelled between Berlin, London, and Vienna, producing portraits. His success at society portraiture was partly due to his facility at depicting uniforms, pearls, and other jewels. As well as royalty and politicians, he painted other notable people, such as the German chemist August Wilhelm von Hofmann. In 1877 Buckingham
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP] Robert von Ostertag Robert von Ostertag (March 24, 1864 – October 7, 1940) was a German veterinarian who was a native of Schwäbisch Gmünd. He studied medicine in Berlin and veterinary medicine in Stuttgart, afterwards becoming a professor of hygiene at Tierärztliche Hochschule Stuttgart (1891–1892) and at the College of Veterinary Medicine in Berlin (1892–1907). In 1907 he became head of the veterinary department in the Reich Health Office in Berlin. In 1910 he traveled to German Southwest Africa in order to study diseases of sheep, and in 1913 he investigated rinderpest in German East Africa. In 1920 he became
In what city was Emil Marschalk von Ostheim born? [SEP] on the wall of the abomasum of cattle and other ruminants. The disease associated with the organism is called "ostertagiosis". Robert von Ostertag Robert von Ostertag (March 24, 1864 – October 7, 1940) was a German veterinarian who was a native of Schwäbisch Gmünd. He studied medicine in Berlin and veterinary medicine in Stuttgart, afterwards becoming a professor of hygiene at Tierärztliche Hochschule Stuttgart (1891–1892) and at the College of Veterinary Medicine in Berlin (1892–1907). In 1907 he became head of the veterinary department in the Reich Health Office in Berlin. In 1910 he traveled to German Southwest Africa in
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]  Esau Tjiuoro (born 26 May 1982 in Okakarara, Otjozondjupa Region) is a Namibian football (soccer) goalkeeper with F.C. Civics Windhoek and the Namibia national football team.
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]  Tjiuoro has played in the Namibia Premier League since 2000. Prior to joining Civics, he played with Ramblers F.C..
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]  Tjivikua was born on 27 July 1958 in Otjomupanda, Otjozondjupa Region. His mother was a nurse and his father a school teacher. He grew up in Oruuua in the then Ovitoto Reserve, and started primary school in 1967 at St Barnabas Anglican Church School in Windhoek's Old Location. His family soon moved to Katutura as a result of the forced removal of blacks from Old Location and he continued his schooling there. After completing high school at Windhoek's Augustineum (1976–1978), Tjivikua worked at the main branch of Barclays Bank (now First National Bank) in Windhoek. Tjivikua left Namibia in June 1979 to study chemistry in the United States at Rockland Community College (1979–1980) and then Lincoln University (1980–1983), from which he graduated cum laude. He then completed a MSc at University of Lowell and a PhD at University of Pittsburgh and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. His thesis was on molecular recognition in organic chemistry. He was a well recognized researcher at that time, and he worked as Assistant Professor of Chemistry at Lincoln University from 1990 to 1995.
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]  Oriedo was born to Esau Khamati Oriedo (d. 1 December 1992) and Evangeline Olukhanya Ohana Analo-Oriedo (d. 11 July 1982), both from the western Kenya's Luhya ethnic group of the Bantu lineage. His father was a Kenyan politician (freedom fighter and colonial-era political detainee, district representative and once chairman of the North Nyanza Local Native Council ), an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and a veteran of World Wars I and II. He was a Christian who challenged early white Christian missionaries in East Africa to embrace the African cultures as congruent with the Christian credo. His mother was an advocate of women's rights and literacy in
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]  Agbenu was born on November 20, 1936, in the Eastern Region, in a town called Afram Plains.
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP] Esau Tjiuoro  Esau Tjiuoro (born 26 May 1982 in Okakarara, Otjozondjupa Region) is a Namibian football (soccer) goalkeeper with F.C. Civics Windhoek and the Namibia national football team.
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP]
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP] to the venerable Esau Khamati Oriedo (d. 1 December 1992) and Evangeline Olukhanya Ohana Analo-Oriedo (d. 11 July 1982), both from the western Kenya's Luhya ethnic group of the Bantu lineage. His father was a renowned "Kenyan statesman" ("freedom fighter and colonial era political detainee, district representative and once chairman of the North Nyanza Local Native Council"), "an entrepreneur, philanthropist", and a veteran of two world wars—"WW I and II", and "a Christian who doggedly challenged the early white Christian missionaries in East Africa to embrace the African cultures as congruent with the Christian credo". His mother was a staunch
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP] season in Japan, playing for Seibu-Tetsudo Tokyo. Len Esau Leonard Esau (born March 16, 1968) is a Canadian former ice hockey defenceman who played a total of 27 games in the National Hockey League for the Toronto Maple Leafs, Quebec Nordiques, Calgary Flames and the Edmonton Oilers. The Leafs drafted him in the fifth round 86th overall in the 1988 NHL Entry Draft from the St. Cloud State Huskies. Esau never scored a goal in the NHL, but notched up 10 assists and collected 24 penalty minutes. He spent much of his tenure in the American Hockey League and the
In what city was Esau Tjiuoro born? [SEP] moved to Katutura as a result of the forced removal of blacks from Old Location and he continued his schooling there. After completing High School at Windhoek's Augustineum (1976–1978), Tjivikua worked at the main branch of Barclays Bank (now First National Bank) in Windhoek. Tjivikua left Namibia in June 1979 to study Chemistry in the United States at Rockland Community College (1979–1980) and then Lincoln University (1980–1983), from which he graduated "cum laude". He then completed a MSc at University of Lowell and a PhD at University of Pittsburgh and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The thesis was on molecular recognition
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP]  Gérard was born on 20 January 1942 in Port of Spain as the only child of Joseph and Margaret Besson. His father was a white plantation overseer, his coloured mother worked in the oil industry. After the early separation of his parents, he grew up in the Catholic, Patois-speaking household of his maternal grandmother. After elementary school, he attended St. Thomas High School in Belmont until the age of 15 when he started working in insurance and in manufacturing companies. After he received an inheritance on the death of his grandmother he travelled to Europe and Great Britain where he unavailingly tried to gain ground as a painter and writer. After his return to Trinidad, he worked as
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP]  He was born at Trent, in Somerset, in 1593 and was educated at Gloucester Hall, Oxford.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP]  Gerard was born October 31, 1965 in Chicago, Illinois. He moved to Champaign, Illinois in 1968, where he attained the rank of Eagle Scout in local Boy Scout Troop 7. He attended the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign but did not complete his studies. Prior to serving as mayor, he began a job as a facilities manager at the University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign where he continues to work.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP]  Thomas was born in Glasgow in June 1983.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP]  Gerard Thomas (1663–1721) was a late Flemish Baroque painter who specialized in studio and picture gallery interiors. He became a master in Antwerp's Guild of St. Luke in 1688–89, and was dean twice. Many of his paintings reflect a trend in Antwerp painting around 1700 that shows artists—often historical masters from earlier in the century like Peter Paul Rubens, Anthony van Dyck or Jacob Jordaens—in their studios, surrounded by paintings and sculptures, and teaching the craft to a young apprentice. The masters are often only hinted by the works of art pictured in the painting itself, however.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP] Gerald Thomas (theatre director)  Gerald Thomas Sievers, best known as simply Gerald Thomas (born July 1, 1954, Rio de Janeiro) is a theatre and opera director and playwright who has spent his life in the United States, England, Brazil and Germany. After graduating as a reader of philosophy at the British Museum Reading Room, Thomas began his life in the theater at Ellen Stewart's La MaMa E.T.C. in New York City. During this period Thomas became an illustrator for the Op-Ed page of the "New York Times" while conducting workshops at La MaMa E.T.C. where he adapted and directed world premieres of Samuel Beckett's prose and dramatic pieces.  In the early 80s, Thomas began working with Beckett himself in Paris (after a lot of correspondence had been exchanged between them for almost two years), adapting new fiction by the author. Of these, the more notorious were "All Strange Away" and "That Time" starring the Living Theatre founder, Julian Beck in his only stage acting role outside of his own company.  In the mid-80s, Thomas became involved with German author Heiner Müller, directing his works in the US and Brazil, and began a long-term partnership with American composer Philip Glass.  In 1985 Thomas formed and established his Dry Opera Company, in São Paulo. It has performed in 15 countries up until 2008 (see list of works below).  In 2009 he wrote a manifesto declaring his "goodbye-to-theater" yet, in 2010, Thomas announced to Stage News that he was to set up his Dry Opera Company in London. Its first production, "Throats," written and directed by Thomas, began performances at the Pleasance Theater in Islington on Feb. 18, 2011.  In 2016, Thomas’s autobiography "Between Two Lines" or "Entre Duas Fileiras", is released by Grupo Editorial Record. The blurb on the back cover is by Oscar Nominee and Golden Globe winner Fernanda Montenegro (and protagonist of Thomas’s "The Flash and Crash Days") writes : "Gerald Thomas exists by virtue of his devastating quality, his inconstancy, his nonconformity, his aggressiveness, his faith laden disbelief, his life affirming death cult; through his clear and powerful incongruence; by laughing and crying like an innocent and somehow ominous child, by loving the neighbor he hates; by being an unexpectedly good, adorable boy and friend; by accepting and forswearing you in seconds; by loving you madly, by cursing you while blessing you; for his devilish, eternal and nonconformist Art is monstrously creative. His Art is unique upon our stages and in our lives. If you have seen or experienced it, it will remain unforgotten."  On November 11, 2017, Gerald Thomas opened his new production “Diluvio” at SESC Anchieta- Consolação, in São Paulo, Brazil, after a three-year absence from the theater. Cast: Maria de Lima, Lisa Giobbi, Julia Wilkins, Ana Gabi, Beatrice Sayd, Isabella Lemos, André Bortolanza, Ronaldo Zero, Wagner Pinto and Dora Leão.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP] Momo Thomas  Gerard "Momo" Santwan Thomas (born April 14, 1990) is an American football cornerback who is currently a free agent. After playing college football for Colorado State University, he was signed by the Falcons as an undrafted free agent in 2013.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP] Geraint Thomas  Geraint Howell Thomas, (; born 25 May 1986) is a Welsh professional racing cyclist who currently rides for UCI WorldTeam , Wales and Great Britain. He is one of the few riders in the modern era to achieve significant elite success as both a track and road rider, with notable victories in the velodrome, in one-day racing and in stage racing. On the track, he has won three World Championships (2007, 2008, and 2012), and two Olympic gold medals (2008 and 2012), while on the road he won the 2018 Tour de France becoming the first Welshman and British-born rider to win it.  His early successes were in track cycling, in which he was a specialist in the team pursuit. He won three World Championships and was Olympic gold medallist twice, in 2008 and 2012. Thomas had an early win on the road at the 2004 Paris–Roubaix Juniors and later had a senior victory at the 2010 British National Road Race Championships. Leaving track cycling to focus solely on the road, he subsequently found success in both one-day/classic races such as the 2014 Commonwealth Games road race and the 2015 E3 Harelbeke, and in one week stage races, most notably at the 2016 Paris–Nice, the 2017 Tour of the Alps, the 2018 Critérium du Dauphiné, the 2020 Tour de Romandie and the 2022 Tour de Suisse.  In cycling's grand tours, Thomas was initially a lead domestique to Chris Froome in his victories. He won the first stage of the 2017 Tour de France, an individual time trial, to become the first Welshman to wear the Tour's yellow jersey. He later crashed in that race, as well as in the 2017 Giro d'Italia. Thomas became the first Welsh person ever to win the Tour de France when he won the tournament in 2018. He gained the yellow jersey by winning stage 11, extended his lead by winning stage 12, and retained the lead for the remainder of the event. In the same year he won the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Award, becoming the first Welshman to win the ward since Ryan Giggs in 2009. In 2019, he confirmed his Grand Tour pedigree when he reached the podium again, having finished runner-up in the Tour de France behind Team Ineos teammate Egan Bernal. In 2022, Thomas became the first ever Welshman to win the Tour de Suisse and later that year won another podium finish at the 2022 Tour de France, placing third.  Notable for his all-round ability and adaptability rather than mastery of one specialism, Thomas has been competitive in individual time-trials, on the cobbles, in the Spring classics and in the mountains of Grand Tours, where he was the first rider in the history of the Tour de France to win at Alpe d'Huez while in yellow.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP] Gerard Thomas Noel  Gerard Thomas Noel (1782–1851) was a Church of England cleric, known as a hymn writer.
In what city was Gerard Thomas born? [SEP] Gerard McMahon  Gerard Thomas McMahon, also known as Gerard McMann and G Tom Mac, is an English singer-songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and producer who specialises in creating music for films and TV. His gothic rock anthem "Cry Little Sister" was recorded in 1987 for the soundtrack album of the cult horror film "The Lost Boys".
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]  Sánchez was born in Guanabacoa, Cuba, a township of Havana, and emigrated to the United States with his parents at the age of two. He grew up in Hialeah, Florida, a suburb of Miami, and attended Mae M. Walters Elementary School, Henry H. Filer Middle School, and Hialeah High School, graduating in 1977. Sánchez accepted a football scholarship to Minnesota State University Moorhead and transferred to the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis on a CBS/WCCO Journalism Scholarship in 1979. Of his childhood Sánchez has said: "I grew up not speaking English, dealing with real prejudice every day as a kid; watching my dad work in a factory, wash dishes, drive a truck, get spit on. I've been told that I can't do certain things in life simply because I was a Hispanic." He prefers to be called Rick Sánchez rather than use his birth name. He said in a newscast in 2009: "I want to be respectful of this wonderful country that allowed us as Hispanics to come here, and I think it's easier if someone's able to understand me by Anglicizing my name."
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]  Sánchez was born, Ricardo Ángel Sánchez, on October 2, 1967, in Scottsdale, Arizona, Arizona, to parents Vicente and Fransica Sanchez, the youngest of six siblings, four brothers and a sister. He grew up in the Catholic Church, where he went to services alone, and was in a mariachi group with his father, when he was five years-old. Sánchez eventually became a non-denominational Protestant, at The Free Chapel in Gainesville, Georgia, just outside Atlanta, Georgia, before relocating to San Antonio, Texas, to join John Hagee's Cornerstone Church.
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]  Sánchez was born and raised by his parents in the city of Humacao, Puerto Rico, in the eastern part of Puerto Rico. There he received his primary education. His family moved to San Juan, where Sánchez continued to receive his secondary and higher education. He enrolled in the University of Puerto Rico in 1955 after graduating from high school, earning a Bachelor of Arts degree. It was during his days as a student at the university that he became interested in acting. Sánchez's interest in literature led him to enroll at the City University of New York where in 1959 he earned his master's degree in dramatic arts. He eventually went to Madrid, Spain and earned his Doctorate in Literature in 1976 from the Complutense University of Madrid.
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]  Sanchez was born in Tijuana, Mexico in 1955 and immigrated to San Marin, California with his family at the age of six.
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]  Sánchez was born in Altamira, a port city on the Gulf of Mexico, to José Refugio Sánchez and Felipa Saldaña Cabello. He began writing verses in his early years and later learned how to play the guitar. In 1937, at age 15, he wrote his first hit song, "Mi chata", which was recorded by the duet Las Serranitas. In the same year he began singing on the XEW radio station, where he eventually had his own program. Because of his young age and overnight success as a songwriter, he came to be known as El Benjamín de los Compositores (literally "The Benjamin of Songwriters", or "The Youngest of Songwriters"). "Mr. Emilio Azcárraga Vidaurreta [the owner of
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP] Ricardo Sanchez  Ricardo Sanchez (born September 9, 1953) is a former lieutenant general in the United States Army. His career was most notable for his service as commander of Multi-National Force – Iraq and V Corps.
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP] Ricardo Sanchez (musician)  Ricardo Ángel Sánchez (born October 2, 1967) is an American Christian musician, guitarist, and worship leader, who is a Grammy-nominated GMA Dove Award-winning songwriter. He has released four albums, "Unmerited", "Oh What a God", "It's Not Over", and "Grand Symphony".
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]
In what city was Ricardo Sánchez born? [SEP]
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]  Bruno Nöckler (6 October 1956 – 17 August 1982) was an Italian alpine skier who competed in the 1980 Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, where he finished in sixth place overall in the giant slalom.
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]  He was born on 12 December 1872 in Breslau, the second child of Jewish parents, Julius and Julcher Cassirer. Julius was a partner, with two of Bruno's cousins, in a cable factory. Julius completed his final school examination in 1890 at the Leibniz-Gymnasium. In 1898, together with his cousin Paul Cassirer, he opened a gallery and bookshop at 35 Viktoriastraße near Kemperplatz, Berlin. On 2 May 1898 the artists' association Berlin Secession was established with Paul and Bruno as secretaries. For three years they acquainted the art and literature scenes of Berlin with the newest waves from Belgian, English, French and Russian culture. In 1901, Bruno and Paul divided the business into separate parts, with Paul running the gallery and art dealership, whilst Bruno owned the publishing side which relocated to 15 Derfflingerstraße. In 1902 he founded the
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]  Erwin Noack (born 4 August 1940 in Uetersen, Hamburg - died 11 November 2006 in Bremen) was a German artist and musician. He was known for his murals of various buildings in Bremen and as the percussionist of Thirsty Moon, a German progressive-rock-jazz band.
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]  Bruno Steinhoff was born in November 1937.
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]  Bruno Bettelheim was born in Vienna, Austria-Hungary, on August 28, 1903. When his father died, Bettelheim left his studies at the University of Vienna to look after his family's sawmill. Having discharged his obligations to his family's business, Bettelheim returned as a mature student in his thirties to the University of Vienna. Sources disagree about his education (see section Misrepresented credentials). Bettelheim's first wife, Gina, took care of a troubled American child, Patsy, who lived in their home in Vienna for seven years, and who may or may not have been on the autism spectrum. In the Austrian academic culture of Bettelheim's time, one could not study the history of art without mastering aspects of psychology. Candidates for the doctoral dissertation in the History of Art in 1938 at Vienna University had to fulfill prerequisites in the formal study of the role of Jungian archetypes
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP]
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP] October 1956  The following events occurred in October 1956:
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP] Trichinella spiralis  Trichinella spiralis is a viviparous nematode parasite, occurring in rodents, pigs, bears, hyenas and humans, and is responsible for the disease trichinosis. It is sometimes referred to as the "pork worm" due to it being typically encountered in undercooked pork products. It should not be confused with the distantly related pork tapeworm.
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP] Trichinosis  Trichinosis, also known as trichinellosis, is a parasitic disease caused by roundworms of the "Trichinella" type. Trichinosis is mainly spread when undercooked meat containing "Trichinella" cysts is eaten. Several species of "Trichinella" can cause disease, with "T. spiralis" being the most common.<ref name=CDC2013DP/> After the infected meat has been eaten, the larvae are released from their cysts in the stomach.<ref name=CDC2013DP/> They then invade the wall of the small intestine, where they develop into adult worms.<ref name=CDC2013DP/> After one week, the females release new larvae that migrate to voluntarily controlled muscles, where they form cysts.<ref name=CDC2013DP/> The diagnosis is usually based on symptoms and confirmed by finding specific antibodies in the blood, or larvae on tissue biopsy.<ref name=CDC2013DP/> The best way to prevent trichinosis is to fully cook meat. Infection is typically treated with antiparasitic medication such as albendazole or mebendazole. Without treatment, symptoms typically resolve within three months.<ref name=Mason2014/> Worldwide, about 10,000 infections occur a year.<ref name=CDC2012Epi/> At least 55 countries including the United States, China, Argentina, and Russia have had recently documented cases.<ref name=Mason2014/> While the disease occurs in the tropics, it is less common there.<ref name=Mason2014/> Rates of trichinosis in the United States have decreased from about 400 cases per year in the 1940s to 20 or fewer per year in the 2000s.<ref name=CDC2012Epi> </ref> The risk of death from infection is low. Section::::Signs and symptoms. The great majority of trichinosis infections have either minor or no symptoms and no complications. The two main phases for the infection are enteral (affecting the intestines) and parenteral (outside the intestines). The symptoms vary depending on the phase, species of "Trichinella", quantity of encysted larvae ingested, age, sex, and host immunity.<ref name="five"/>
In what city was Bruno Nöckler born? [SEP] Gustav Winckler Gustav Frands Wilzeck Winckler (13 October 1925 – 20 January 1979) was a popular Danish singer, composer and music publisher. He grew up in the Nørrebro district of Copenhagen and started his career as a decorator. In 1948 as a young man he won a talent competition at National Scala Theatre in Copenhagen, as well as many others in Copenhagen. He was often compared to Bing Crosby. He finally broke through in 1950 with engagements, regular appearances on Danmarks Radio and his first professional recording. Through the 1950s he recorded and toured in Denmark, Germany (under the name
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]  Gloria Porras Valles (born 16 April 1960) is a Mexican politician from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. In 2012 she served as Deputy of the LXI Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Baja California Sur.
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]  Ortiz was born in Suan Juan de Pasto, Narino on 7 January 1969. She has a degree in law from the Universidad Externado de Colombia, postgraduate specialisation in Constitutional Law from the University of the Andes and a Master's in Law with an emphasis in Public Law from the Universidad Externado.
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]  Gloria Giner de los Ríos García was born in Madrid on 28 March 1886. The daughter of Laura García Hoppe and Hermenegildo Giner de los Ríos, she spent her childhood and adolescence in Madrid, Alicante, and Barcelona, cities where her father held the Chair of Philosophy. After finishing high school in 1906 and teaching in 1908, she completed her training by attending classes at the Institución Libre de Enseñanza and taking courses in art, pedagogy, and philosophy. In 1909, she was promoted to the Escuela de Estudios Superiores de Magisterio.
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]  Agripina Montes del Valle (1844–1912) also known as "Azucena del Valle", "Porcia" and "La Musa del Tequendama", was a Colombian poet, writer, and intellectual, She was recognized for her works dedicated to the beauty of her country and region, and to the women of Colombia and Latin America at the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century.
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]  Gloria Guzmán was born on 15 April 1902 (or possibly 1894) in Vitoria, Alava, Spain. She arrived in Argentina in 1924 with a zarzuela company and had her debut in the play Las camisas negras. By 1926, she was dubbed as one of the three great "Bataclanas" (showgirls)of the Maipo Theater along with Carmen Lamas and Iris Marga. In 1931, she began making films debuting in Luces de Buenos Aires with Sofía Bozán and Pedro Quartucci. That same year, she starred in Un caballero de frac directed by Roger Capellani and Carlos San Martín with Roberto Rey and Rosita Díaz Gimeno. In 1936, she filmed Radio Bar directed by Manuel Romero with starring alongside
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP] Gloria Porras Valles  Gloria Porras Valles (born 16 April 1960) is a Mexican politician from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. In 2012 she served as Deputy of the LXI Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Baja California Sur.
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP]
In what city was Gloria Porras Valles born? [SEP] National Assembly (Nicaragua)  The National Assembly () is the legislative branch of the government of Nicaragua founded in 1986 to replace the bicameral National Congress of Nicaragua, which consisted of two chambers.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP]  Schmidt was born Wolfgang Schmidt on October 5, 1966 in Lehnin, Brandenburg, Germany.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP]  A son of refugees who fled from Sudetenland (now Czech Republic) in 1945, Schmidt spent his youth in Swabian Nürtingen. Due to his strict Catholic upbringing he devoted time to the Roman Catholic church, serving as choirmaster and playing the organ. At the age of 21, Schmidt went to Stuttgart to attend drama school for three years. After that, he gained on-stage experience at Städtische Bühne (Municipal Stage) in Augsburg. His first role was that of the 2nd Mamaluke in Lessing's Nathan the Wise. In 1984, Schmidt became a lyricist for the cabaret Kom(m)ödchen in Düsseldorf and in 1986, was honoured as "Best Newcomer cabaret artist" and toured through Germany with his own show. In October 2005, his daughter Amelie was born. Schmidt resides in Cologne with his partner Ellen Hantsch, a school teacher, and their five children, the eldest being from a previous relationship. Little is known about the children and their two mothers as Schmidt shields them from the public. In interviews he hardly talks about them.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP]  Born in Hamburg, the son of a police constable, Schmidt moved in 1928, after the death of his father (1883–1928), with his mother (1894–1973), to her hometown of Lauban (in Lusatia, then Lower Silesia, now Poland) and attended secondary school in Görlitz as well as a trade school there. After finishing school, he was unemployed for some months and then, in 1934, began a commercial apprenticeship at a textile company in Greiffenberg. After finishing his apprenticeship he was hired by the same company as a stock accountant. Around this time, at his company, he met his future wife, Alice Murawski. The couple married on 21 August 1937; they had no children. At
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP]  Klaus D. Schmidt (born 25 September 1943) is an Austrian mathematician and retired professor at the Faculty of Mathematics, University of Vienna. After studying mathematics at the University of Vienna he received his doctorate in 1968 under Edmund Hlawka. He held visiting professorships in Technical University of Vienna, University of Manchester in 1969, Bedford College (1969–1974) and the University of Warwick from 1974 to 1994 after which he came back to the University of Vienna. He retired in 2009. In 1975/76 K. R. Parthasarathy invited Klaus Schmidt to spend 7 months at the new Delhi Centre of Indian Statistical Institute (Parthasarathy was then working at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi). In 1994 he was awarded the Ferran Sunyer i Balaguer Prize. He is member of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. He has researched among other things, ergodic theory and its connections with arithmetic, commutative algebra, harmonic analysis, operator algebras and probability theory.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP]  Otto Schmidt was born on 1 August 1902 as the oldest of four children. After studying law and economics at the universities of Rostock, Leipzig, Munich and Cologne, he became a court clerk in 1924 court clerk. In 1925 he earned his doctorate of law, and became an assistant judge in 1928. From 1938 he worked as an attorney in his father's practice, Dr. Otto Schmidt Verlag, and became partner in 1940. From 1930 he also worked as a lawyer in Cologne. In 1944 he was called for military service. Schmidt ended the war as a prisoner.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP] Gertrude Degenhardt  Gertrude Degenhardt (born 1 October 1940) is a German artist, especially a lithographer and illustrator, based in Mainz. She is known for illustrating the texts and albums of Franz Josef Degenhardt and of other political writers and singers including François Villon, Liam O'Flaherty, Bertolt Brecht, and Wolf Biermann. In the 1990s, she turned to topics around women, portraying them in art books such "Women in Music", "Vagabondage in Blue", and "Vagabondage en Rouge".
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP] 1926 in Germany  Events in the year 1926 in Germany.
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP] List of singer-songwriters  This is a list of singer-songwriters who write, compose, and perform their own musical material. The list is divided into two sections to differentiate between artists categorized as singer-songwriters and others who do not fall under the definition associated with the genre:
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP] List of German-language authors  This list contains the names of persons (of any ethnicity or nationality) who wrote fiction, essays, or plays in the German language. It includes both living and deceased writers.  Most of the medieval authors are alphabetized by their first name, not by their sobriquet.  Abbreviations: children's (ch), drama (d), fiction (f), non-fiction (nf), poetry (p)
In what city was Klaus-Degenhard Schmidt born? [SEP] Continental AG  Continental AG, commonly known as Continental or colloquially as Conti, is a German multinational automotive parts manufacturing company specializing in tires, brake systems, interior electronics, automotive safety, powertrain and chassis components, tachographs, and other parts for the automotive and transportation industries. Continental is structured into six divisions: Chassis and Safety, Powertrain, Interior, Tires, ContiTech, ADAS (Advanced Driver Assistance Systems). It is headquartered in Hanover, Lower Saxony. Continental is the world's fourth-largest tire manufacturer.  Continental sells tires for automobiles, motorcycles, and bicycles worldwide under the Continental brand. It also produces and sells other brands with more select distribution such as Viking (limited global presence), General (US/Canada), Gislaved (Canada, Spain, Nordic Markets), Semperit Tyres, Barum to serve EU & Russia. Other brands are "Uniroyal" (Europe), Sportiva, Mabor and Matador and formerly Sime/Simex tyres (now Dunlop Tyres Malaysia, Singapore and Brunei). Continental's customers include all major automobile, truck and bus producers, such as Volkswagen, Daimler AG, BharatBenz, Ford, Volvo, Iveco, Schmitz, Koegel, Freightliner Trucks, BMW, General Motors, Toyota, Honda, Renault, PSA and Porsche.<ref name="costarica"/>
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]  Scarborough was born in Macon, Georgia, in 1852 to Jesse and Frances Scarborough, a free railway employee, and an enslaved mother. Laws prescribed that he inherit his mother's status. His father had been freed in about 1846 but remained in Georgia to be with his mother. Despite prohibitions against educating slaves, he was educated surreptitiously and had mastered the three R's, geography, and grammar by the age of 10. He became an apprentice shoemaker and served as the secretary of a prominent black association at an early age due to his level of education. After the end of the American Civil War, he was able to complete his education at Lewis High School in Macon before attending Atlanta University in 1869 for two years before enrolling at Oberlin College. Scarborough completed his degree at Oberlin in 1875. He also completied his degree at Atlanta University - now Clark Atlanta University - in June 1876.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]  Barber was born in Columbus, Georgia in 1950 and raised in Charleston, South Carolina. After attending Phillips Academy, he earned an A.B. in social studies from Harvard College in 1972, a Juris Doctor from the Boston University School of Law in 1977, and a Master's in City and Regional Planning from the Harvard Graduate School of Design in 1977.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]  Robert W. White (1922 — 1985) was mayor of Scarborough, Ontario from 1969 until 1972; the second person to hold the office. White was a businessman who operated a florist business, James White & Sons, founded by his grandfather in 1920 and still operated by the White family as of 2022. He was elected a school trustee in 1956 before being elected to Scarborough Township Council in 1959. When Scarborough mayor Ab Campbell was appointed Metro Chairman in 1969, Scarbrough council acclaimed White to succeed him as mayor and he went on to be elected outright in the 1969 municipal election. During his tenure in office, the Scarborough Civic Centre and
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]  Scarborough was born in Atlanta, the son of Mary Joanna (née Clark) and George Francis Scarborough, a businessman. He has two siblings. In 1969, his family moved to Meridian, Mississippi, and then to Elmira, New York, in 1973 and Pensacola, Florida, in 1978. Scarborough attended Pensacola Catholic High School in Pensacola. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree in history from the University of Alabama in 1985 and a Juris Doctor from the University of Florida College of Law in 1990. During this time, he wrote music and produced CDs with his band, Dixon Mills, including the album Calling on Robert E. Lee, and he also coached football and taught high school.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]  George Moore Scarborough (1875 – 1951) was an American lawyer, playwright, and author whose works appeared on stage and screen. He was born in Mount Carmel, Texas and studied at Baylor University and University of Texas. He became a lawyer at his father's firm before deciding to write for the theater and moving to New York after his father's death in 1905. While seeking out a producer for his work, he served as a newspaperman and Secret Service agent. He later used those experiences in his stories. His Broadway plays include such successes as The Lure (1913), At Bay (1913), The
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP] Robert B. Scarborough  Robert Bethea Scarborough (October 29, 1861November 23, 1927) was a U.S. Representative from South Carolina.  Born in Chesterfield, South Carolina, about a year after the state had declared its secession to join the Confederate States, Scarborough attended the common schools and Mullins (South Carolina) Academy. He taught school and studied law. Scarborough was admitted to the bar in 1884 and commenced practice in Conway, South Carolina. He was a county attorney of Horry County 1885-1893 and served as clerk of the county board 1885-1890. He served as member of the South Carolina State senate in 1897 and 1898 and was elected president pro tempore in 1898. He served as the 63rd Lieutenant Governor of South Carolina in 1899.  Scarborough was elected as a Democrat to the Fifty-seventh and Fifty-eighth Congresses (March 4, 1901 – March 3, 1905). He declined to be a candidate for renomination in 1904 to the Fifty-ninth Congress. He resumed the practice of law in Conway, South Carolina, and was also interested in banking. He served as chairman of the board of regents of the South Carolina State Hospital.  He died in Conway, South Carolina, on November 23, 1927 and was interred in Lake Side Cemetery.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP] Robert Palmer (singer)  Robert Allen Palmer (19 January 1949 – 26 September 2003) was an English singer-songwriter, musician and record producer. He was known for his powerful, soulful voice and sartorial elegance, and for his stylistic explorations, combining soul, funk, jazz, rock, pop, reggae, and blues. While his "four-decade career incorporated every genre of music", Palmer is best known "for the pounding rock-soul classic, "Addicted to Love", and its accompanying video, which came to epitomise the glamour and excesses of the 1980s."<ref name="TelegraphObit" />  Having started in the music industry in the 1960s, including a spell with Vinegar Joe, he found success in the 1980s, both in his solo career and with the Power Station, scoring Top 10 hits in the United Kingdom and the United States. Three of his hit singles, including "Addicted to Love", featured music videos directed by British fashion photographer Terence Donovan.  Palmer received a number of awards throughout his career, including two Grammy Awards for Best Male Rock Vocal Performance and an MTV Video Music Award. He was also nominated by the Brit Award for Best British Male Solo Artist. He died at age 54, following a heart attack.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP] J. Edwin Ellerbe  James Edwin Ellerbe (January 12, 1867October 24, 1916) was a U.S. Representative from South Carolina.  Born in Sellers, South Carolina, Ellerbe attended Pine Hill Academy and the University of South Carolina at Columbia. He graduated from Wofford College, Spartanburg, South Carolina, in 1887, where he was a member of the Chi Phi Fraternity. He engaged in agricultural pursuits. He served as member of the State house of representatives 1894-1896. He served as delegate to the State constitutional convention in 1895.  Ellerbe was elected as a Democrat to the Fifty-ninth and to the three succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1905 – March 3, 1913). He was an unsuccessful candidate for renomination in 1912. He resumed his agricultural pursuits. He died in Asheville, North Carolina, October 24, 1916. He was interred in the family burial ground near Sellers, South Carolina.
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP]
In what city was Robert B. Scarborough born? [SEP] Paul Bernardo  Paul Kenneth Bernardo (born August 27, 1964), also known as The Scarborough Rapist and The Schoolgirl Killer, is a Canadian serial killer and serial rapist. He is known for initially committing a series of rapes in Scarborough, Ontario, a suburb of Toronto, between 1987 and 1990, before subsequently committing three murders with his then-wife Karla Homolka; among these victims was her young sister Tammy Homolka. After his capture and conviction, Bernardo was sentenced to life imprisonment and was later declared a dangerous offender, thus making it unlikely that he will ever be released from prison.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP]  Torres was born in Aguadilla, Puerto Rico, in 1960. At age four, he moved to New York, first in upper Manhattan and then to the Bronx. In 1990 he returned to Puerto Rico where he produced twenty-two works over the course of a year, including ''Ruth Fernandez in 1991.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP]  Torres was born in Paterson, New Jersey, and moved to Aguada, Puerto Rico, with his family when he was one year old. He played very little baseball as a child in Puerto Rico, and did not become serious about becoming a professional baseball player until he was 18. He attended Dr. Carlos Gonzalez High School and Miami-Dade Community College. At Miami-Dade, he was a track and field star, running the 100 meters in 10.37 seconds. In 1997, the Florida Marlins drafted him in the 23rd round of the Major League Baseball Draft, but he chose not to sign. He was then drafted by the Detroit Tigers in the fourth round of the 1998 Major League Baseball draft, and that time he signed.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP] Dilson (footballer), São Toméan footballer who plays as a left back ; Dilson Funaro (1933–1989) Brazilian businessman and politician ; Dilson Herrera (1994) Colombian professional baseballer ; Dilson Torres (1970) former Venezuelan pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Kansas City Royals in their 1995 season ; Dilson Díaz, leader of La Pestilencia band
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP]  Torres was born in Ponce, Puerto Rico, in 1916. The teenaged Torres moved to New York City in 1934, to study at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. Financial problems forced him to leave Pratt before completing his degree, and he returned to Puerto Rico.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP]  Hector Juan Samuel Torres was born on October 7, 1953, in New York, and brought up in the Colonia section of Woodbridge Township, New Jersey. His parents, Emma and Héctor, emigrated from Cuba in 1948. Torres attended John F. Kennedy Memorial High School in Iselin.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP] Dilson Torres  Dilson Darío Torres (born May 31, 1970) is a former Venezuelan pitcher in Major League Baseball who played for the Kansas City Royals in their 1995 season. Listed at 6' 3", 200 lb., Torres batted and threw right-handed. He was born in Maracay, Aragua.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP] Torres (surname)  Torres (sometimes spelled Torrez) is a surname in the Portuguese and Spanish languages, meaning "Towers".
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP] Epy Guerrero  Epifanio Obdulio "Epy" Guerrero (January 3, 1942 - May 23, 2013) was a Dominican baseball scout who signed more than 50 Major League Baseball (MLB) players for the Houston Astros, New York Yankees, Toronto Blue Jays and Milwaukee Brewers. Epy was the brother of former shortstop Mario Guerrero, and had two sons, Epy Jr. (Sandy) and Mike, who played and Coached minor league ball.  Guerrero was a Toronto Blue Jays coach in . As a Blue Jays scout, Guerrero signed Tony Fernández and Carlos Delgado, and urged upper management to draft George Bell away from the Philadelphia Phillies.  He is considered to have signed more major leaguers than any other scout, including All Stars Cesar Cedeño, Carlos Delgado, Tony Fernández, Dámaso García, Alfredo Griffin, and José Mesa.  Guerrero was inducted into the Dominican Sports Hall of Fame in October , and on January 15, , Guerrero received a "Legends in Scouting Award" from the Professional Baseball Scouts Foundation.
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP] List of Major League Baseball players from Venezuela  From 1939 to 2019, 397 Venezuelan baseball players born in Venezuela have played in Major League Baseball. This list shows players who appeared in at least one game in MLB, including number indicating order of arrival, name of player, position, starting team, and dates of debut and final game.  Abbreviations for position
In what city was Dilson Torres born? [SEP]
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]  Strauss was born in Charleston, West Virginia, the son of Rosa (Lichtenstein) and Lewis Strauss, a successful shoe wholesaler. Their parents were Jewish emigrants from Germany and Austria who came to the United States in the 1830s and 1840s and settled in Virginia. His family moved to Richmond, Virginia, and he grew up and attended public schools there. At the age of 10, he lost much of the vision in his right eye in a rock fight, which later disqualified him from normal military service. He was valedictorian of his high school class, but typhoid fever in his senior year
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]  Strauss was born in Lockhart, Texas, south of Austin. He was the son of Edith Violet (née Schwarz) and Charles H. Strauss. His parents were Jewish immigrants from Germany. When he was one year old, his family moved to the small town of Hamlin, north of Abilene, and later to the slightly larger nearby town of Stamford. Strauss's father opened a small general store in Stamford. In his sophomore year at the University of Texas at Austin, he campaigned for a state assembly candidate and was given a part-time job as a Committee Clerk in the Texas State Legislature. In 1937, while still an undergraduate, he volunteered for Johnson's first congressional campaign. Strauss was also a member of
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]  David Levi Strauss was born in Junction City, Kansas in 1953, and grew up just down the road in Chapman, where his grandfather was a blacksmith and his father a mechanic. His mother, Viola Lee, worked as a secretary for the local school district. After writing and distributing a political tract critical of his high school’s administration, he was threatened with expulsion, but enrolled in Kansas State University anyway, where he spent two years studying political science and philosophy before being asked to leave after organizing a march on the ROTC building to protest Nixon’s Cambodian bombings in 1973 and a student strike to protest the firing of a radical history professor. At age 21, he traveled around the world on a floating university, collecting children’s art in Japan, China, Indonesia, India,
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]  Strauss was born in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, the son of Warren B. Strauss, a German-born wine importer. His family was Jewish. Strauss graduated from the Hackley School in 1965 and Northwestern University in 1969.
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]  Arthur Strauss was born Issidor Arthur Strauss on 29 April 1847 in Mayence (Mainz), Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. He was the son of Samuel Strauss (born 8 November 1811, Kriegsheim, Germany), a merchant, and Rosalia Drucker (b. 4 January 1820, Frankfurt, Germany).
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP]
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP] Strauss  Strauss, Strauß or Straus is a common Germanic surname. Outside Germany and Austria "Strauß" is always spelled "Strauss" (the letter "ß" is not used in the German-speaking part of Switzerland). In classical music, "Strauss" usually refers to Richard Strauss or Johann Strauss II.  The name has been used by families in the Germanic area for at least a thousand years. The overlord of Gröna, for example, went by the name of Struz and used the image of an ostrich as his symbol. Examples of it could still be seen on the thousand-year-old church bell of that town. "Struz" or "Strutz" is the North-German form of the word "Strauss", which is the modern German word for ostrich.  Some of the earliest Jewish bearers of the name hailed from the Judengasse in medieval Frankfurt, where families have been known by the name of the houses they inhabited. All the houses had names and these included Haus Strauss, complete with an image of an ostrich on the façade.  When, for tax purposes, Napoleon made surnames obligatory in 1808, some more Jewish families decided to adopt the Straus(s) name.
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP] Man Ray  Man Ray (born Emmanuel Radnitzky; August 27, 1890 – November 18, 1976) was an American visual artist who spent most of his career in Paris. He was a significant contributor to the Dada and Surrealist movements, although his ties to each were informal. He produced major works in a variety of media but considered himself a painter above all. He was best known for his pioneering photography, and was a renowned fashion and portrait photographer. He is also noted for his work with photograms, which he called "rayographs" in reference to himself.
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP] Richard Feynman  Richard Phillips Feynman (; May 11, 1918 – February 15, 1988) was an American theoretical physicist, known for his work in the path integral formulation of quantum mechanics, the theory of quantum electrodynamics, the physics of the superfluidity of supercooled liquid helium, as well as his work in particle physics for which he proposed the parton model. For contributions to the development of quantum electrodynamics, Feynman received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1965 jointly with Julian Schwinger and Shin'ichirō Tomonaga.  Feynman developed a widely used pictorial representation scheme for the mathematical expressions describing the behavior of subatomic particles, which later became known as Feynman diagrams. During his lifetime, Feynman became one of the best-known scientists in the world. In a 1999 poll of 130 leading physicists worldwide by the British journal "Physics World", he was ranked the seventh-greatest physicist of all time.  He assisted in the development of the atomic bomb during World War II and became known to a wide public in the 1980s as a member of the Rogers Commission, the panel that investigated the Space Shuttle "Challenger" disaster. Along with his work in theoretical physics, Feynman has been credited with pioneering the field of quantum computing and introducing the concept of nanotechnology. He held the Richard C. Tolman professorship in theoretical physics at the California Institute of Technology.  Feynman was a keen popularizer of physics through both books and lectures, including a 1959 talk on top-down nanotechnology called "There's Plenty of Room at the Bottom" and the three-volume publication of his undergraduate lectures, "The Feynman Lectures on Physics". Feynman also became known through his autobiographical books "Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!" and "What Do You Care What Other People Think?", and books written about him such as "Tuva or Bust!" by Ralph Leighton and the biography "Genius: The Life and Science of Richard Feynman" by James Gleick.
In what city was Ray Strauss born? [SEP] Charlotte Rae  Charlotte Rae Lubotsky (April 22, 1926 – August 5, 2018) was an American character actress and singer whose career spanned six decades.  Rae was known for her portrayal of Edna Garrett in the sitcoms "Diff'rent Strokes" and its spin-off, "The Facts of Life" (in which she had the starring role from 1979 to 1986). She received a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Best Actress in a Comedy in 1982. She also appeared in two "Facts of Life" television films: "The Facts of Life Goes to Paris" in 1982 and "The Facts of Life Reunion" in 2001. She voiced the character of "Nanny" in "" and Aunt Pristine Figg in "". She also appeared as Gammy Hart in "Girl Meets World".  In 2015, she returned to film in the feature film "Ricki and the Flash", with Meryl Streep, Kevin Kline, and Rick Springfield. In November 2015, Rae released her autobiography, "The Facts of My Life", which was co-written with her son, Larry Strauss.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP]  Robert Zakanitch was born in 1935 in Elizabeth, New Jersey and grew up in Rahway. He lived and worked in New York City. At the time of his June 3 through September 17, 2017 exhibition in the Hudson River Museum, he had recently moved his residence and studio to Yonkers, New York (as stated in the exhibition's literature).
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP]  Robert Paweł Zawada (born 7 June 1944 in Jedlnia-Letnisko, Radom County) is a former Polish handball player who competed in the 1972 Summer Olympics. In 1972 he was part of the Polish team which finished tenth in the Olympic tournament. He played two matches and scored three goals.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP]  Zajonc, born in Łódź, Poland on November 23, 1923, was the only child of the family. In 1939, before the Nazi invasion of Poland reached Łódź, his family fled to Warsaw. During their short stay, the building they were living in was hit by an air raid. Both of Zajonc's parents were killed, and he was seriously injured. The rest of his time in Warsaw was dedicated to studying at an underground university in Warsaw until he was sent to a German labor camp. He escaped from the work camp, got recaptured, and then sent to a political prison in France. After escaping for the second time, he joined the French Resistance, continuing his studies at the University of Paris. In 1944, he moved to England where he became a translator for the American forces during their European Campaign.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP]  Andrzej Zawada (born Maria Andrzej Zawada; 16 July 1928 – 21 August 2000) was a Polish mountaineer, pioneer of winter Himalayism. Zawada was an organiser and leader in numerous high-mountains expeditions. Author of movies and photographs from expeditions, co-author of Alpinist books. Honorary member of the British Alpine Club, French Groupe de Haute Montagne and American The Explorers Club. Grandson of Tomasz Rawicz-Zawada young participant of January Uprising in 1863. Son of Filip Rawicz Zawada, Polish legionnaire and consul. Zawada studied physics and geophysics in Wrocław and Warsaw. Received an engineer's degree in seismology. In 1955–1993 he worked at the Institute of Geophysics of the Polish Academy of Sciences. Amongst climbers he is known for his phrase: "Tell me, what you did in the winter in the Tatras, and I'll tell you what climber you are".
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP]  David Zawada (born August 1, 1990) is a German mixed martial artist currently competing in the Welterweight division of the Ultimate Fighting Championship. A professional since 2010, he has formerly competed for Konfrontacja Sztuk Walki (KSW), and Respect FC where he is the former Welterweight Champion.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP] Robert Zawada  Robert Paweł Zawada (born 7 June 1944 in Jedlnia-Letnisko, Radom County) is a former Polish handball player who competed in the 1972 Summer Olympics.  In 1972 he was part of the Polish team which finished tenth in the Olympic tournament. He played two matches and scored three goals.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP] Zawada (surname)  Zawada is a Polish-language surname. Historically, due to the instability of the orthography, as well as in the periods of the partitions of Poland by foreign powers the same person or persons of the same family could use different spelling of the surname. Variant spellings include Zavada (Russified) and Sawada/Sowada (Germanized). The Czech/Slovak cognate is Závada.  Notable people with this surname include:
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP] David Zawada  David Zawada (born ) is a German mixed martial artist currently competing in the Welterweight division. A professional since 2010, he has formerly competed for the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), Konfrontacja Sztuk Walki (KSW), and Respect FC where he is the former Welterweight Champion.
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP] Meanings of minor planet names: 157001–158000
In what city was Robert Zawada born? [SEP] Bloody Benders  The Bender family, more well known as the Bloody Benders, were a family of serial killers who lived and operated in Labette County, Kansas, United States, from May 1871 to December 1872.<ref name="leatherock"/> The family consisted of John Bender, his wife Elvira and their son John Jr. and daughter Kate. While popular retelling of the story holds that John Jr. and Kate were siblings, contemporary newspapers reported that several of the Benders' neighbors had stated that they claimed to be married, possibly in a common law marriage.  While there is no definitive number, estimates report that the Benders killed at least a dozen travelers before their crimes were discovered. The fate of the family remains unknown, with theories ranging from a lynching of the family to a successful escape. Much folklore and legend surrounds the Benders, making it difficult to separate fact from fiction.
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]  General John Albert Shaud (born December 15, 1933) is a retired United States Air Force four-star general who served as Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters Allied Powers Europe (COFS SHAPE) from 1988 to 1991. Shaud was born in 1933 in Cleveland, Ohio, where he graduated from Cleveland Heights High School. He attended Lafayette College for a year prior to entering the United States Military Academy. Upon graduation from West Point in 1956, he received a Bachelor of Science degree and was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Air Force. He received a Master of Science degree from The George Washington University in 1967 and a doctorate from Ohio State University
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]  Edward Grant Shaud III was born in Evanston, Illinois, the son of Anna Barbara (née Dougherty) and Edward Shaud, Junior. His family is Irish Catholic. He attended Conestoga High School in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, and graduated in 1979. In 1983, he graduated with a journalism degree from the University of Richmond, where he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]  Shary's parents were Austrian immigrants who came to America and became pioneer farmers. John Shary grew up and went to school in Crete, Nebraska. By the age of eighteen he had worked his way through college to become one of the youngest men certified as a pharmacist in that state. When he was twenty-two, he accepted a job as a traveling salesman for a California drug company. His travels took him throughout the United States and Canada. While in Texas, he took notice of the great potential for land development. He first purchased 30,000 acres (120 km²) of land between Corpus Christi and San Antonio. The sale of this property earned him much profit and inspired him to enter the land development business.
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]  Mamie Eisenhower's father John Doud was born in 1870 in Rome, New York. He moved to Chicago, and then to Boone, Iowa, where Mamie was born in 1896. In 1905, the Douds moved to Denver, and lived at 101 Logan Street. In 1906, John Doud bought a residence at 750 Lafayette Street. This single family home was built at a cost of $6925 in 1905 by Gustave A. Ziegler. The architect was Edwin Moorman.
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]  the operations staff of the 388th Tactical Fighter Wing at Korat Royal Thai Air Force Base, Thailand, and later became an RF-4C flight commander with the 12th Tactical Reconnaissance Squadron at Tan Son Nhut Air Base, South Vietnam. Shaud returned to the United States and attended Ohio State University, where he received his doctorate in June 1971. He then was assigned to Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama, and served on the faculty of the Air Command and Staff College until entering the National War College in August 1973. After graduating in June 1974, the general was assigned to the 449th Bombardment Wing, Kincheloe Air Force Base, Michigan, as deputy commander for
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP]
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP] Paul Weitz (filmmaker)  Paul John Weitz (born November 19, 1965) is an American screenwriter, director and producer. He is the older brother of filmmaker Chris Weitz. Together they worked on the comedy films "American Pie" and "About a Boy"; for the latter, they were both nominated for the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. Weitz is also a writer, executive producer, and director of the Amazon Prime Video web series "Mozart in the Jungle".
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP] Jane Leeves  Jane Elizabeth Leeves (born 18 April 1961) is an English actress. Leeves played Daphne Moon on the NBC television sitcom "Frasier" from 1993 until 2004, for which she was nominated for an Emmy Award and a Golden Globe Award. She also played Joy Scroggs on TV Land's sitcom "Hot in Cleveland".  Leeves made her screen debut with a small role in 1983 on the British comedy television show "The Benny Hill Show", and appeared as a dancer in "Monty Python's The Meaning of Life". She moved to the United States, where she performed in small roles. From 1986 to 1988, she had her first leading role in the short-lived sitcom "Throb", then secured a recurring part in the television sitcom "Murphy Brown". She received further recognition for roles in films such as "Miracle on 34th Street" (1994), "James and the Giant Peach" (1996), "Music of the Heart" (1999), and "The Event" (2003). In 2018, she began starring in the Fox medical drama "The Resident".
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP] List of United States Air Force four-star generals  This is a complete list of four-star generals in the United States Air Force. The rank of general (or "full general", or "four-star general") is the highest rank normally achievable in the U.S. Air Force. It ranks above lieutenant general ("three-star general") and below General of the Air Force ("five-star general").  There have been 230 four-star generals in the history of the U.S. Air Force. Of these, 226 achieved that rank while on active duty, 3 were promoted after retirement, and one was promoted posthumously. Generals entered the Air Force via several paths: 60 were commissioned via the U.S. Military Academy (USMA), 49 via the aviation cadet program, 45 via the U.S. Air Force Academy (USAFA), 42 via Air Force Reserve Officer Training Corps (AFROTC) at a civilian university, 13 via AFROTC at a senior military college, 9 via Air Force Officer Training School (OTS), 4 via the U.S. Naval Academy (USNA), 4 via Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) at a civilian university, 2 via direct commission (direct), one via direct commission inter-service transfer from the Army National Guard (ARNG), and one via direct commission inter-service transfer from the Royal Canadian Air Force (RCAF).
In what city was John A. Shaud born? [SEP] Antz  Antz is a 1998 American computer-animated adventure comedy film produced by DreamWorks Animation (in its debut film) and Pacific Data Images and released by DreamWorks Pictures. It was directed by Eric Darnell and Tim Johnson (in their feature directorial debuts) from a screenplay by Todd Alcott, Chris Weitz, and Paul Weitz. The film features the voices of Woody Allen, Sharon Stone, Jennifer Lopez, Sylvester Stallone, Christopher Walken, Dan Aykroyd, Anne Bancroft, Danny Glover and Gene Hackman. Some of the main characters share facial similarities with the actors who voice them. The film involves a worker ant, Z (Allen), who falls in love with Princess Bala (Stone). When the treacherous scheming of the evil General Mandible (Hackman) threaten to wipe out the entire worker population, Z must save the ant colony and strives to make social inroads.  Development began in 1988 when Walt Disney Feature Animation pitched a film called "Army Ants", about a pacifist worker ant teaching lessons of independent thinking to his militaristic colony. Meanwhile, Jeffrey Katzenberg had left the company in a feud with CEO Michael Eisner over the vacant president position after the death of Frank Wells. Katzenberg would later go on to help co-found DreamWorks with Steven Spielberg and David Geffen, and the three planned to rival Disney with the company's new animation division. The film began production in May 1996, after production had already commenced on "The Prince of Egypt" (1998). DreamWorks had contracted Pacific Data Images (PDI) in Palo Alto, California to begin working on computer-animated films to rival Pixar's features. Harry Gregson-Williams and John Powell composed the music for the film, making their first animated film. During its production, a public feud erupted between Jeffrey Katzenberg of DreamWorks, and Steve Jobs and John Lasseter of Pixar, due to the production of their similar film "A Bug's Life", which was released a month later. This is only worsened when Disney refused to avoid competition with DreamWorks' intended first animated release, "The Prince of Egypt".  "Antz" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 19, 1998, and was released theatrically in the United States on October 2, 1998. It grossed $171.8 million worldwide on a budget of $42–105 million and received positive reviews, with critics praising the voice cast, animation, humor, and its appeal towards adults.<ref name=rt />
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]  Gianni Lonzi (born August 4, 1938) is an Italian water polo player who competed in the 1960 Summer Olympics, in the 1964 Summer Olympics, and in the 1968 Summer Olympics. He was born in Florence. In 1960 he was a member of the Italian water polo team which won the gold medal. He played five matches. Four years later he finished fourth with the Italian team in the water polo competition at the Tokyo Games. He played six matches. At the 1968 Games he was part of the Italian team which finished again fourth in the Olympic water polo tournament. He played all nine matches. As a head coach, Lonzi led Italy men's national team to win an Olympic silver medal in 1976, becoming one of a few sportspeople who won Olympic medals in water polo as players and head coaches. He is married from 1968 with the Italian fencer Olympic Champion Antonella Ragno.
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]  Carla Lonzi was born in Florence, Italy, on March 6, 1931 to a middle-class family. Her father owned a small industrial company and her mother dedicated her life to the nurture and education of Lonzi and her four siblings. In her early twenties, Lonzi became greatly interested in film and theatre, both as a spectator and creator. This lead her to performance art, a practice she liked for its ability to stage real life experiences and revealing truths. Lonzi did her final dissertation on theatre and graduated from the University of Florence. Later in her career, the lessons she learned from film and the theatre continued to influence her work. In 1955 Lonzi married Mario Lena. In 1960, she gave birth to their son, Battista Lena. Lonzi found married life straining. She and Lena separated in 1963. The following year, in 1964, Lonzi began her relationship with Pietro Consagra, an Italian sculptor. Lonzi and Consagra never married. Their relationship ended in 1969, following the publication of Lonzi's "Autorittrato".
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]  Giannini was born in the historic city of Rome, Italy in 1956, and when she was 15 her family made the decision to migrate to Australia, which bought her to Melbourne. Giannini considers herself privileged to have had the experience of living in two cities, garnering a wealth of experience. Giannini came from a family of no other architects but feels that a possible influence may have been the many gallery excursions she experienced with her mother and grandparents. For Giannini, her personal and professional life share many overlaps. McGauran Giannini Soon (or MGS, Giannini's architectural practice) was established in 1985 with
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]  Born in Lugo di Romagna, Italy, he began his career with his city side Baracca Lugo, graduating from their youth team into the Serie C first team where in 1997 he signed a three-year professional contract. Strong and good in the air. In 2000 out of necessity the manager Mario Somma moved him as a defender with good results. Zanzi spent mostly of is career at the Serie D playing for Valleverde Riccione F.C., U.S. Pergolese and Pol. Virtus Castelfranco Calcio before moving to England in January 2009. Snapped up by Bromley F.C. after impressing in a trials Zanzi joined the club shortly after arriving in England. He made his debut against Worcester City F.C.
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]  Gianclaudio Regazzoni was born in Mendrisio, Switzerland on 5 September 1939, a few days after the start of the Second World War. Regazzoni grew up in Porza, in the Canton of Ticino, part of the Italian speaking region of Switzerland. He was married to Maria Pia, with whom he had two children: Alessia and Gian Maria.
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP] Gianni Lonzi  Gianni Lonzi (born August 4, 1938) is an Italian water polo player who competed in the 1960 Summer Olympics, in the 1964 Summer Olympics, and in the 1968 Summer Olympics.  He was born in Florence.  In 1960 he was a member of the Italian water polo team which won the gold medal. He played five matches.  Four years later he finished fourth with the Italian team in the water polo competition at the Tokyo Games. He played six matches.  At the 1968 Games he was part of the Italian team which finished again fourth in the Olympic water polo tournament. He played all nine matches.  As a head coach, Lonzi led Italy men's national team to win an Olympic silver medal in 1976, becoming one of a few sportspeople who won Olympic medals in water polo as players and head coaches.  He is married from 1968 with the Italian fencer Olympic Champion Antonella Ragno.
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP] Antonella Ragno-Lonzi  Antonella Ragno-Lonzi (born 6 June 1940) is an Italian fencer and Olympic champion in foil competition.
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP] Lonzi  Lonzi () is an Italian surname. Notable people with this surname include:
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]
In what city was Gianni Lonzi born? [SEP]
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]  He made his professional debut in the Russian Second Division in 2006 for FC Krylia Sovetov-SOK Dimitrovgrad. He played in the Russian Football National League for FC Dynamo Bryansk in 2010.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]  Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov (Максим Андреевич Фёдоров; born 5 April 1989) is a Russian former professional footballer.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]  He spent the first five seasons of his senior career in the FC Dynamo Kyiv system, but did not make any appearances for the first squad. He played 3 seasons in the Russian Football National League for 4 different teams.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]  Pyotr Fedorov was born on April 21, 1982 in Moscow, into a family of actors. His father Pyotr Evgenievich Fedorov (October 27, 1959 - March 10, 1999), was a Soviet and Russian theater and film actor, art critic, television presenter (died of cancer at the age of thirty-nine). Grandfather - Yevgeny Fyodorov (born March 3, 1924), is a Soviet and Russian theatrical actor, "Honored Artist of the RSFSR", artist of the Vakhtangov State Academic Theater (1945 to present). Pyotr spent his childhood in the Altai, Uimon Valley. He was fond of drawing and wanted to become an artist. The eight-grader moved with his
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]  Maksim Viktorovich Fyodorov (Максим Викторович Фёдоров; born 20 January 1986) is a former Russian professional football player.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP] Maksim Fyodorov (footballer, born 1989)  Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov (; born 5 April 1989) is a Russian former professional footballer.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP] Yuri Zhelyabuzhsky  Yuri Andreyevich Zhelyabuzhsky (; – 24 October 1955) was a Russian and Soviet cinematographer, film director, screenwriter and animator, film theorist and professor at VGIK.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP]
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP] Vasily Kalinnikov  Vasily Sergeyevich Kalinnikov (; 13 January 1866 – 11 January 1901 ) was a Russian composer. His body of work consists of two symphonies, several additional orchestral works, and numerous songs, all of them imbued with characteristics of folksong. His symphonies, particularly the First, were frequently performed in the early 20th century.  His younger brother Viktor Kalinnikov (1870–1927) was also a composer, mainly of choral music.
In what city was Maksim Andreyevich Fyodorov born? [SEP] List of Russian people  This is a list of people associated with the modern Russian Federation, the Soviet Union, Imperial Russia, Russian Tsardom, the Grand Duchy of Moscow, Kievan Rus', and other predecessor states of Russia.  Regardless of ethnicity or emigration, the list includes famous natives of Russia and its predecessor states, as well as people who were born elsewhere but spent most of their active life in Russia. For more information, see the articles Rossiyane, Russians and Demographics of Russia. For specific lists of Russians, see and .
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]  Scott McCuaig (born June 5, 1984 in Surrey, British Columbia) is a professional Canadian football defensive lineman who is currently a free agent. He most recently played for the BC Lions. He was drafted by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League in the third round of the 2009 CFL Draft. He played CIS football for the UBC Thunderbirds. McCuaig was signed by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats on May 28, 2009, following the 2009 CFL Draft. He was placed on the practice roster on June 29, 2009, at the conclusion of the pre-season. On August 19, 2009, unhappy with being placed on the practice roster and seeing an opportunity to return to British Columbia, he requested a release from the Tiger-Cats and signed with the BC Lions on August 28, 2009.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]  McCaig was born December 12,1965 in Duncan, British Columbia on Vancouver Island. His parents grew up in Northwestern Ontario. He grew up in Kamloops, British Columbia.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]  Montieth was born in Kitchener, Ontario.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]  Scott McQuaig (born January 27, 1959, in Meridian, Mississippi ) is an American country music singer-songwriter. In 1989, McQuaig charted two singles on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart. A third single charted on the RPM Country Tracks chart in Canada in 1990.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]  Scott was born and raised in Windsor, Nova Scotia. From 1979 to 1981, he attended Lester B. Pearson United World College of the Pacific in Canada, where he gained the International Baccalaureate Diploma. He then earned undergraduate degrees from McGill University and from the University of Oxford where he was a Rhodes Scholar at St John's College. He has a Bachelor of Laws from Dalhousie University and a Masters of Law from the London School of Economics. His academic specialty is international law with a focus on human rights law. Scott was a professor in the University of Toronto Faculty of Law from 1989 to 2001. He was Osgoode Law School's Associate Dean (Research and Graduate Studies) from 2001 to 2004 and has remained on the faculty subsequently. Scott and his partner Kovit Ratchadasri previously owned the Craig Scott Gallery, an art gallery on Berkeley Street near Toronto's Distillery District.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP] Scott McQuaig  Scott McQuaig (born January 27, 1959, in Meridian, Mississippi) is an American country music singer-songwriter. In 1989, McQuaig charted two singles on the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart. A third single charted on the "RPM" Country Tracks chart in Canada in 1990.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP] Scott McCuaig  Scott McCuaig (born June 5, 1984 in Surrey, British Columbia) is a retired professional Canadian football defensive lineman. He most recently played for the BC Lions. He was drafted by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League in the third round of the 2009 CFL Draft. He played CIS football for the UBC Thunderbirds, as a standout defensive lineman, sharing the single season record for QB sacks (11), named Canada West’s MOP, and in 2021 was named to UBC’s “All-Decade Team”  McCuaig was signed by the Hamilton Tiger-Cats on May 28, 2009, following the 2009 CFL Draft. He was placed on the practice roster on June 29, 2009, at the conclusion of the pre-season. On August 19, 2009, unhappy with being placed on the practice roster and seeing an opportunity to return to British Columbia, he requested a release from the Tiger-Cats and signed with the BC Lions on August 28, 2009. Following his football career he became a firefighter in BC’s Lower Mainland.
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP] McCuaig  McCuaig is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]
In what city was Scott McCuaig born? [SEP]
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]  Louis-Arsène Lavallée (2 February 1861 at Berthier-en-Haut, Province of Canada &ndash; 19 November 1936 at Montreal) was a Mayor of Montreal, Canada. His education was first at the Collège de Joliette, then at Université Laval's Montreal campus for law studies (which is today the Université de Montréal). He was formally installed as a lawyer in 1884. Lavallée worked with Hormidas Laporte to create the Alliance Nationale insurance company in 1892. After an unsuccessful campaign at the St. James riding in the 1896 federal election, Lavallée became a Montreal local councillor, since 1900 for the Saint-Jacques ward then in 1904 at La Fontaine ward. In 1912, he was elected Mayor of Montreal and served that role until the 1914 election. During his local political career, Lavallée promoted consolidation and amalgamation of municipalities towards a larger Montreal government and saw annexation of municipalities such as Côte-des-Neiges during that time.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]  Jean-Baptiste Augustin Lavallée (August 22, 1816 &ndash; February 15, 1903) was a music teacher, violin maker, conductor and blacksmith in Quebec. His surname also appears as Paquet or Paquet dit Lavallée. He was born near Verchères, Lower Canada, the son of Jean-Baptiste Paquet and Charlotte Lalu. In 1842, Lavallée married Caroline Valentine. He settled in Verchères towards the end of that year. Around 1848, he moved with his family to Saint-Hyacinthe, where he worked with pipe organ manufacturer Joseph Casavant. Lavallée also taught music and conducted the village band. In 1852, he opened an instrument repair shop. In 1865, he moved his business to Montreal. He operated in partnership with his son Charles from 1888 to 1894 as Lavallée & Fils; they are believed to have manufactured over 200 violins. Lavallée then retired and Charles took over the operation of the business. His son Calixa became a famous pianist and composer, who wrote the music for O Canada. He died in Montreal at the age of 86.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]  Lavallée was born Calixte Paquet dit Lavallée near Verchères, a village near present-day Montreal in the Province of Canada (now the Canadian province of Quebec). He was a descendant of Isaac Pasquier, from Poitou, France, who arrived in Nouvelle-France in 1665 as a soldier in the Carignan-Salières regiment. Lavallée's father Augustin Lavallée, worked as a blacksmith, logger, bandmaster, self-taught luthier and bandleader, and also worked for the pipe organ builder Joseph Casavant. Calixa Lavallée's mother was Charlotte-Caroline Valentine, descendant of James Valentine, a soldier from Montrose, Scotland who married a Quebecer by the name of Louise Leclerc and then settled down in Verchères, Québec. Lavallée began his musical education with his father (Eli Grande), who taught him organ by age 11. Lavallée also studied in Montréal with Paul Letondal and Charles Wugk Sabatier.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]  Victor LaValle was born on February 3, 1972 and raised in the Flushing and Rosedale neighborhoods of Queens, New York by a single mother who had emigrated from Uganda in her twenties. He attended Woodmere Academy and went on to earn a degree in English from Cornell University and a Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing from Columbia University.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]  Marcel Trudel was born in Saint-Narcisse-de-Champlain, Quebec, northeast of Trois-Rivières, the son of Hermyle Trudel and Antoinette Cossette, the ninth of eleven children. Orphaned at the age of five, he was adopted by a local couple in his extended family, Théodore Baril and Mary Trépanier. He showed great academic progress and spent some months at a seminary at Trois-Rivières, but concluded that the priesthood was not for him. Rather, he had a particular interest in literature and hoped to make his living as a writer. He earned a licence ès lettres (cum laude) in 1941 and a Doctorat ès lettres (magna cum laude) in 1945, both from Université Laval. He then had two years of post-doctoral studies at Harvard University before returning to Laval to teach history.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP]
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP] List of mayors of Montreal  This is a list of mayors of Montreal, Quebec, since the city was incorporated in 1832. Party colours do not indicate affiliation or resemblance to a provincial or a federal party.
In what city was Louis-Arsène Lavallée born? [SEP] James John Edmund Guerin  James John Edmund Guerin (4 July 1856 – 10 November 1932) was a Canadian physician and politician.
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP]  Clemente was born in North Greenbush, New York on April 12, 1997. He began his study of dance in Colonie, New York at The World of Dance. Clemente appeared in regional theatre productions in his early career, including Toy Camp, The Music Man, High School Musical on Stage!, and Seussical. During this time Clemente participated in dance competitions including with The New York City Dance Alliance (NYCDA).
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP]  Clemente was born Costantino Daniel Clemente in Manhattan to Louis James and Amelia T. Clemente. His father was a surgeon who served in World War II as a Major in the U.S. Army. Clemente grew up in Brooklyn, attended the Brooklyn Preparatory School and matriculated to Fordham University, where he received his B.S. in economics in 1958. Following a year of postgraduate work at Marquette University, Clemente attended Georgetown University Law Center and was a member of the law review. He graduated with a J.D. in 1963 and was admitted to the bar in the same year.
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP]  Louie Clemente (born 1965), American musician ; Ludovic Clemente (born 1986), Andorran footballer ; Manuel Clemente (born 1948), Catholic Patriarch of Lisbon ; Mariano Clemente, Argentine footballer ; Michael Clemente (1908–1987), American mobster ; Nicholas Clemente (1929–2009), American judge ; Paul Clemente, American politician ; Paulo Clemente (born 1983), Portuguese footballer ; Pia Clemente, Filipina-American film producer ; Ramón Clemente (born 1985), Puerto Rican basketball player ; Ramon di Clemente (born 1975), South African Olympic rower ; Roberto Clemente (1934–1972), Puerto Rican baseball player ; Roberto Clemente Jr. (born 1965), Puerto Rican broadcaster and former baseball player, son of Roberto Clemente ; Rosa Clemente (born 1972), American journalist and activist ; Simón de Roxas Clemente y Rubio (1777–1827), a Spanish botanist who used the standard author abbreviation Clemente ; Steve Clemente (1885–1950), Mexican-American actor ; Tim Clemente (born 1960), American counter-terrorism expert ; Enrique Clemente (born 1999), Spanish footballer
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP] Clemente Agosto (born 1974), Puerto Rican politician ; Clemente Aguirre (1828–1900), Mexican musician ; Clemente Albèri (1803–1864), Italian painter ; Clemente Álvarez (born 1968), Venezuelan baseball player ; Clemente Biondetti (1898–1955), Italian racing driver ; Clemente Bocciardo (1620–1658), Italian painter ; Clemente Bondi (1742–1821), Italian poet ; Clemente Canepari (1886–1966), Italian cyclist ; Clemente "Clem" Cattini (born 1937), British musician ; Clemente Cerdeira Fernández (1887–1947), Spanish Arabist and diplomat ; Clemente de Faria Jr. (born 1987), Brazilian racing driver ; Clemente Domínguez y Gómez (1946–2005), Antipope of the Palmarian Catholic Church ; Clemente Estable (1894–1976), Uruguayan scientist ; Clemente Fernández López (1919–1996), Spanish footballer ; Clemente Fracassi (1917–1993),
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP] Aldo Di Clemente (born 1948), Italian amateur astronomer ; Anna Clemente (born 1994), Italian racewalker ; Ari Clemente (born 1939), Brazilian footballer ; Aria Clemente (born 1995), Filipina actress and singer ; Art Clemente (born 1925), American politician ; C. Daniel Clemente (born 1936), American attorney and businessman ; Christofer Clemente, Australian scientist ; Denis Clemente (born 1986), Puerto Rican basketball player ; Edgard Clemente (born 1975), Puerto Rican baseball player, nephew of Roberto Clemente ; Fernando Clemente (1917–1998), Italian architect ; Francesco Clemente (born 1952), Italian painter ; Gerardo Clemente (born 1982), Swiss football player ; Jacob Clemente (born 1997), American actor and dancer ; Javier Clemente (born 1950), Spanish football manager ; Jim Clemente, American author and television writer and producer ; John Clemente (1926–2011) Italian physician and philatelist ; Joseph Clemente (born 1987), Indian footballer ; L. Gary Clemente (1908–1968), United States Representative from New York
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP] Clemente Isnard  Clemente José Carlos de Gouvea Isnard, O.S.B. (July 8, 1917 – August 24, 2011) was a Brazilian bishop of the Roman Catholic Church.  Isnard was born in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1917 and was ordained a priest on December 19, 1942 of the Order of Saint Benedict. He was appointed Bishop of the Diocese of Nova Friburgo on April 23, 1960 and was ordained bishop July 25, 1960. Isnard remained at the diocese for over 30 years, retiring July 17, 1992.
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP] Clemente  Clemente is both an Italian, Spanish and Portuguese surname and a given name. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP] Luciano Mendes de Almeida  Luciano Pedro Mendes de Almeida (5 October 1930 – 27 August 2006) was a Brazilian Roman Catholic prelate and professed member from the Jesuits who served as the Archbishop of Mariana from 1988 until his death. He was a noted pastor passionate about the defence of human rights and for the participation of the faithful in ecclesial affairs; he oversaw the establishment of retirement homes and facilities for disabled people during his tenure as archbishop.  In 2011 calls were made for his cause for beatification to be introduced and the national episcopal conference made a formal application to officials in Rome to commence the cause. The start to the cause saw the late archbishop titled as a Servant of God.
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP]
In what city was Clemente Isnard born? [SEP]
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]  Gerald A. Polley (January 29, 1947 – July 4, 2012) was an American political campaigner, singer, animator and alleged psychic who resided in Bismarck, North Dakota. He was married to Linda Polley, who shares his political and religious views. Polley grew up in Maine, before moving to North Dakota in 1999. He founded the religion of Spiritism, which according to him and his wife is based on a faith that originated 500,000 years ago on a planet named Hades and was brought to Earth by extraterrestrial colonizers, who died in a cataclysmic event remembered in human legend as the Great Flood. The Polleys claimed to be in contact with God, Jesus and Muhammad, along with the spirits of such well-known figures as John
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]  Dale Starkey was born in 1924 in Pryor, Oklahoma, to Flossie Jones and Garland Starkey. He started his radio career at age 6 as a singer on radio station [WHB]'s program "Kansas City Kiddies Review". Serving in the U.S. Naval Amphibious forces during World War II, he participated in the Invasion of Omaha Beach, Normandy, France, on his 20th birthday. He was subsequently involved in a bombing during the invasion of Okinawa by a Suicide plane. On discharge from the service in 1945, he went to work as one of the original voices of classical music station KDFC in San Francisco, California. He then worked at CBS in Hollywood as singer, writer, actor and announcer, retiring in 1982 from San Francisco station KABL. Starkey continues to do commercial announcing and writes fiction and screenplays at his home in Carmel, California.
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]  Eugene J. Polley was born November 29, 1915 in Chicago, Illinois; He attended the City Colleges of Chicago and Armour Institute of Technology, but left before graduating. In 1935, he was hired as a stock boy for Zenith Electronics; he moved to the company's parts department, where he created the company's first catalog, then transferred to engineering, where his assignments included work on radar during World War II for the U.S. Department of Defense. His 1955 invention, marketed as the Flash-Matic, used visible light to remotely control a television outfitted with four photo cells in the cabinet at the corners of the screen. Aiming the pistol-shaped control at an individual photocell could turn the receiver on and off, mute the sound
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]  An 18-year-old at the time he was drafted, Polley spent his first season with Melbourne developing in the reserves. For the last match of the 1995 home and away season, Polley was named as an emergency in the squad, but was not required to play. After a season's development, Polley was one of several young players at Melbourne that were expected to "take the next step" in 1996. Due to the Demons need for pace, Polley was named to make his AFL debut in the second round of the season, but was ultimately not selected. After being suspended for one week and injuring his hand in May, Polley finally made his AFL debut against Essendon in round 9.
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]  Polley was born on April 7, 1922 in New York City. After serving as a corporal in the U.S. Army during World War II, he practiced law and worked in retail shops before beginning his managerial career in New York's garment industry. He began artist management after he met Lou Christie in the mid-1960s. It was through his association with Christie that he met and began working with other artists in the New York and Los Angeles entertainment fields. In 1968, Polley formed a company called Five Arts Management, for his work with singer Lou Christie, musician Al Kooper, arranger Charles Calello, TV director Michael Cooper, composer Sandy Linzer and WABC disc jockey Bob Lewis. He formed further companies for legal and accounting purposes to manage artists including
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP] Dale Polley  Ezra Dale Polley (born August 9, 1965) is a former Major League Baseball pitcher for the New York Yankees. He bats right-handed and throws left-handed.  He was signed by the Atlanta Braves as an amateur free agent in 1987. He played only in with the Yankees. Polley had a 1-3 record in 32 games, with a 7.89 ERA. Polley attended Kentucky State University.
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP]
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP] Road to Avonlea  Road to Avonlea is a Canadian television series first broadcast in Canada between January 7, 1990, and March 31, 1996, as part of the "CBC Family Hour" anthology series, and in the United States starting on March 5, 1990. It was created by Kevin Sullivan and produced by Sullivan Films (later Sullivan Entertainment) in association with the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) and the Disney Channel, with additional funding from Telefilm Canada. It follows the adventures of Sara Stanley, a young girl sent to live with her relatives in early 20th-century eastern Canada. It was loosely adapted from novels by Lucy Maud Montgomery, with many characters and episodes inspired by her stories.  Some episodes were turned into independent books by various authors; around 30 titles have been released.  In the United States, its title was shortened to "Avonlea", and a number of episodes were retitled and reordered. The series was released on VHS and DVD there as "Tales from Avonlea".
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP] Danny Rios  Daniel Rios (born November 11, 1972) is a former professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB), the KBO League, and Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). Rios's repertoire included a sharp slider, change-up and fastball around 90 mph.
In what city was Dale Polley born? [SEP] The Law of Enclosures (film)  The Law of Enclosures is a 2000 Canadian drama film. It was written and directed by John Greyson, and based on the novel "The Law of Enclosures" by Dale Peck.  The story traces the marital relationship of Henry and Beatrice, characters based on Peck's real-life parents, over the course of their lives from their courtship as young adults to their 40th wedding anniversary. For the film adaptation, Greyson set the events in 1991 against the backdrop of the first Gulf War, with Henry and Beatrice's younger and older selves all coexisting in a single time frame.  Sarah Polley and Brendan Fletcher play Beatrice and Henry as a young couple, with Diane Ladd and Sean McCann playing the older characters. While author Peck was born in New York and raised in Kansas, Greyson set the film in Sarnia, Ontario. The score was written by Don Pyle and Andrew Zealley.
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]  Robert Crannell Minor (1839–1904), American artist, was born in New York City on April 30, 1839. His father, Israel Minor, was a merchant who made a large fortune in the pharmaceutical business. As a young man, Robert Minor worked as a bookkeeper in New York City but decided to study art in his early thirties. After studying in New York with painter Alfred Cornelius Howland, Minor went abroad in 1871 to continue his artistic education. He visited various galleries in England before traveling to Barbizon, France, where he studied under Diaz. He later studied in Antwerp under Joseph Van Luppen and Hippolyte Boulenger. In 1874, he was vice president of the Société artistique et
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]  Robert Lee Minor or Bob Lee Minor (born January 1, 1944) is an American stunt performer, television and film actor, best known for doubling many African-American celebrities such as: Jim Brown, Fred Williamson, Bernie Mac, Danny Glover, Carl Weathers, Roger E. Mosley and John Amos. Minor was born in Birmingham, Alabama, and made his first television appearance in 1973 on the television program, Search, then appeared in tons of shows such as: Barnaby Jones, McCloud, The Six Million Dollar Man, Eight is Enough, Magnum, P.I. and Starsky and Hutch among other popular television programs.
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]  during the last decade of his life. Despite later speculation, it did not materially impact the quantity of his output, and the suggestion that it impacted the quality of his work is a misreading of the increasing abstraction in certain of his later Tonalist paintings. He died at his home in Waterford, Connecticut, on August 4, 1904. His paintings are owned by the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Yale University Art Gallery, the Mead Art Museum, the Lyman Allyn Museum, the Florence Griswold Museum, the Brooklyn Museum, the Newark Museum, the Robert Hull Fleming Museum, the Haggin Museum, the Salmagundi Club, the Memorial Art Gallery, and the University of Arizona Museum of Art.
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]  of Antwerp. On his return to the United States in 1874, he opened a studio in New York. He painted for many years out of his studio in the Old University Building of New York University. Painting in the Adirondack Mountains and later in Waterford, Connecticut, Minor soon became known for his landscapes resembling the Barbizon School. Under the influence of George Inness and Alexander Helwig Wyant, he also began to paint in a Tonalist style. His painting Great Silas at Night (1897) displays his adoption of the Tonalist style while his lingering Barbizon style can be seen in A Hillside Pasture. From the 1890s until his death, Minor exhibited frequently with the Tonalists
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]  Robert Minor, best known to those who knew him by the nickname "Bob," was born July 15, 1884, in San Antonio, Texas. Minor came from old and respected family lines. On his father's side, General John Minor had served as Thomas Jefferson's Presidential campaign manager; his mother was related to General Sam Houston, first President of the Republic of Texas. His father was a school teacher and lawyer, later elected as a judge, while his maternal grandfather was a doctor. Despite the notable family forefathers, Bob Minor was not brought up with a silver spoon in his mouth — rather he was the product of what one historian has called "the hard-up, run-down middle class," living in an "unpainted frontier cottage in San Antonio." Minor was unable to begin school until age 10 due to his family's dire financial straits before leaving school at age 14 to take a job as a Western Union messenger boy to help support his family. Minor left home two years later, going to work at a variety of different jobs, including time spent as a sign painter, a carpenter, a farm worker, and a railroad laborer.
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP] Robert Crannell Minor  Robert Crannell Minor (1839–1904), American artist, was born in New York City on April 30, 1839. His father, Israel Minor, was a merchant who made a large fortune in the pharmaceutical business. As a young man, Robert Minor worked as a bookkeeper in New York City but decided to study art in his early thirties. After studying in New York with painter Alfred Cornelius Howland, Minor went abroad in 1871 to continue his artistic education. He visited various galleries in England before traveling to Barbizon, France, where he studied under Diaz. He later studied in Antwerp under Joseph Van Luppen and Hippolyte Boulenger. In 1874, he was vice president of the Société artistique et littéraire of Antwerp.  On his return to the United States in 1874, he opened a studio in New York. He painted for many years out of his studio in the Old University Building of New York University. Painting in the Adirondack Mountains and later in Waterford, Connecticut, Minor soon became known for his landscapes resembling the Barbizon School. Under the influence of George Inness and Alexander Helwig Wyant, he also began to paint in a Tonalist style. His painting "Great Silas at Night" (1897) displays his adoption of the Tonalist style while his lingering Barbizon style can be seen in "A Hillside Pasture". From the 1890s until his death, Minor exhibited frequently with the Tonalists in New York. In 1897, he was elected a member of the National Academy of Design, New York. In 1900, Minor achieved the height of his success at the historic William T. Evans sale in 1900, where his painting "The Close of Day" (private collection) fetched $3,050, the highest price for a landscape by a living American painter at that auction.  Over the course of his lifetime, Minor was a member of the Society of American Artists and the Salmagundi Club. He exhibited in New York, Brooklyn, Chicago, and elsewhere in the United States, as well as in the Royal Academy of London and the salons of Paris and Antwerp. Minor was plagued with bad health during the last decade of his life. Despite later speculation, it did not materially impact the quantity of his output, and the suggestion that it impacted the quality of his work is a misreading of the increasing abstraction in certain of his later Tonalist paintings. He died at his home in Waterford, Connecticut, on August 4, 1904. His paintings are owned by the Smithsonian American Art Museum, the Yale University Art Gallery, the Mead Art Museum, the Lyman Allyn Museum, the Florence Griswold Museum, the Brooklyn Museum, the Newark Museum, the Robert Hull Fleming Museum, the Haggin Museum, the Salmagundi Club, the Memorial Art Gallery, and the University of Arizona Museum of Art.
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP] Robert Minor (disambiguation)  Robert Minor (1884–1952) was a political cartoonist, journalist and leading member of the American Communist Party.  Robert Minor may also refer to:
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]
In what city was Robert Crannell Minor born? [SEP]
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] She is currently living in Tokyo, but she was born in Ota, Tokyo.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] Izumi Iimura (born 1980), Japanese women's cricketer ; Jo Iimura (飯村 穣), Japanese general ; Rikiya Iimura, Japanese karateka ; Iimura Takahiko (飯村 隆彦), Japanese film director Iimura (written: 飯村) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP]  Izumi Inamori was born and grew up in Kagoshima Prefecture. After finished from the local high school, Inamori went to University of Texas at Arlington to study English abroad. After a year and a half of school life in the United States, her family was poor so she returned to Japan, and soon started her career as a model locally at the age of 20 in 1992. In 1994, she made her film debut in the TV drama series "Ue o muite arukō!". She is also a first dan kendoka.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP]  Shigeru Izumi was born in 1922 in Osaka, Japan. He attended the Nakanoshima School of Western Art, and the Osaka City Kogei School (Osaka City School of Applied Arts), graduating in 1939. In 1951 he established the Osaka demokurato bijutsu kyokai (Democratic Artists Association) with fellow artists Ei-Q and Yoshio Hayakawa. In 1959 he traveled to New York where he was guest professor at the Pratt Graphic Art Center. In 1963 he moved to Paris where he lived until around 1968, when he returned to Japan. Shigeru Izumi taught at the Osaka University of Arts from 1970 through the early 1990s. Shigeru Izumi died in 1995. His work is in the collections of the Harvard Art Museums, the Museum of Modern Art, the National Gallery of Art, and the Philadelphia Museum of Art. His work is also in the Carnegie Museum of Art, the Hyōgo Prefectural Museum of Art, the Machida City Museum of Graphic Arts, the Miyazaki Prefectural Art Museum, the Musée d'art moderne de la Ville de Paris, the National Museum of Art, Osaka, the National Museum of Modern Art, Kyoto, the National Museum of Modern Art, Tokyo, and the Tokushima Modern Art Museum.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP]  Kyōka was born Izumi Kyōtarō on November 4, 1873 in the Shitashinmachi section of Kanazawa, Ishikawa, to Izumi Seiji (泉 清次), a chaser and inlayer of metallic ornaments, and Nakata Suzu (中田 鈴), daughter of a tsuzumi hand-drum player from Edo and younger sister to lead protagonist of the Noh theater, Kintarō Matsumoto. Because of his family's impoverished circumstances, he attended the tuition-free Hokuriku English-Japanese School, run by Christian missionaries. Even before he entered grade school, young Kintarō's mother introduced him to literature in picture-books interspersed with text called kusazōshi, and his works would later show the influence of this early contact with such visual forms of story-telling. In April 1883, at nine years old, Kyōka lost his mother, who was 29 at the time. It was a great blow
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] Izumi Iimura  Izumi Iimura (born 2 December 1980) is a former Japanese cricketer who played three Women's One Day International cricket matches for Japan national women's cricket team in 2003.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] Iimura  Iimura (written: 飯村) is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] Bon-Bon Blanco  Bon-Bon Blanco (sometimes B3 or B) is a Japanese rock group during 2002–2009. The group used to belong to Columbia Music Entertainment, but has moved to Bouncy Records in 2006.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] Sendai  In the summer, the Sendai Tanabata Festival, the largest Tanabata festival in Japan, is held. In winter, the trees are decorated with thousands of lights for the , lasting through most of December.  On 11 March 2011, coastal areas of the city suffered catastrophic damage from a magnitude 9.0 offshore earthquake, which triggered a destructive tsunami.
In what city was Izumi Iimura born? [SEP] List of Imperial Japanese Navy admirals  The following is a list of the Admirals of the Imperial Japanese Navy during its existence from 1868 until 1945.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]  Aleksandar was born on 15 January in 1981. in Lazarevac, former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. His dancing career starts at age of 9, and during his career he won 9 national championships in ballroom dancing, he was a finalist in the Golden World Cup (England) and a semifinalist in the World Cup (Hungary). He has danced and performed for many royal families, as well as for some countries presidents. Aleksandar is one of the most successful of dancers but also of the pedagogues in the world that come from Yugoslavia. He holds French and Serbian citizenship.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]  Tijanić was born in Đakovica, FPR Yugoslavia. After finishing high school in his home town, he moved to Belgrade to study journalism at University of Belgrade's Faculty of Political Sciences. He did not complete his studies.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]  Though his parents lived in Brčko, Nikolić was born in Sarajevo, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes, due to his pregnant mother, Krista, suddenly going into labour while visiting her sister in Sarajevo. Young Aleksandar enjoyed a privileged upbringing courtesy of his wealthy father, Đorđe Nikolić, who had him at the age of 62. After spending the first few years of his life in Brčko, Nikolić moved with his family to the capital Belgrade, where he would grow up. Nikolić attended the Kralj Aleksandar Gymnasium at the Belgrade neighbourhood of Banovo Brdo. He then studied medicine and law at the University of Belgrade, graduating in 1946.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]  Born in Novi Sad, SR Serbia, SFR Yugoslavia, Lazarevski started playing for RFK Novi Sad. In 2006, he moved to Russia where he played with the B team of FC Lokomotiv Moscow and after half of year he moved to Bulgaria where he played with PFC Slavia Sofia in the PFG A. In 2007, he returned to Serbia and joined SuperLiga side FK Borac Čačak. In the summer of 2009 he signed with another SuperLiga side, OFK Beograd, but after a year was loaned to FK Radnički Sombor in the Serbian First League. Two years later he was released by OFK and he joined the club he had represented at the beginning of his career, RFK Novi Sad.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]  Milutinović was born in Belgrade, in what was then the People's Republic of Serbia in the Federal People's Republic of Yugoslavia. He was a graduated engineer.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP] Sabine Weyer  Sabine Weyer (born 8 May 1988) is a pianist from Luxembourg. She is a professor of piano at the Conservatoire de la Ville de Luxembourg.
In what city was Aleksandar Madžar born? [SEP]
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP]  Wiese was born in Minden, Germany. He aspired to be an artist but was discouraged by his community.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP]  Roland Riese (born 29 July 1960 in Neuenhaus, Lower Saxony) is a German politician that belongs to the Free Democratic Party. He was elected to the Lower Saxon Landtag in 2003, and has been re-elected on one occasion. Riese holds a master's degree in Business administration from the University of West Florida. He is member of the Beta Gamma Sigma Society.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP]  According to the CV published on his department website, Wiesendanger was born in Basel. He grew up in Lörrach, Germany, where he attended high-school, the Hans-Thoma-Gymnasium from 1972 to 1981. In 1981 he studied physics, mathematics, and astronomy at the University of Basel, Switzerland. Since 1984 he had been working in the field of Scanning Tunneling Microscopy. In 1986, he graduated in Physics with highest distinction and in 1987, he received his Ph.D. with “summa cum laude” for his work on “Scanning Tunneling Microscopy on Non-Crystalline Solids”.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] Robert Platow (1900–1982 in Chur), German journalist, founder and publisher of the Platow Brief ; Heinrich Willi (1900–1971), pediatrician who co-discovered Prader–Willi syndrome ; Andreas Walser (1908–1930), a Swiss painter in Paris ; Gustav Guanella (1909–1982), a Swiss inventor, developed high-frequency electronics ; Meinrad Schütter (1910–2006), a Swiss composer ; Rudolf Olgiati (1910–1995), local architect, of the New Objectivity movement ; H. R. Giger (1940–2014), visual artist, painter and Oscar winner ; Peter Zumthor (born 1943), an uncompromising and minimalist Swiss architect, works in Chur ; Alex P. Schmid (born 1943), a Swiss-born Dutch scholar in terrorism studies and former Officer-in-Charge of the Terrorism Prevention Branch of the United Nations ; Mario Illien (born 1946), engineer, specialising in motorsport engine design ; Robert Indermaur (born 1947), a Swiss painter and sculptor ; Hans Danuser (born 1953), a Swiss artist and photographer ; Corin Curschellas (born 1956), a Swiss singer-songwriter, vocalist, free improvisation, actress and voice actress ; Valerio Olgiati (born 1958), renowned architect of Grisonian buildings ; Raphael Zuber (born 1973), architect ; Adrian J. Meier (born 1976), politician of local council and explorer ; Rebecca Indermaur (born c. 1977), a Swiss film and television actress
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP]  Roland was born in München. After his final secondary-school examinations, he completed an apprenticeship as a carpenter. From 1954 until 1963 he studied architecture at Technical University of Munich, at the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago and at TU Berlin. During his studies from 1959 till 1961 he was an assistant in Mies van der Rohe's office in Chicago. In 1963 Roland began to work self-employed in Berlin. He mainly compiled studies, projects and documentations on Hanging-houses and Spacenets. The plans for the construction of a sports stadium in Abu Dhabi, which he developed in co-operation with Jörn-Peter Schmidt-Thomsen in the 1960s, won the tendering competition, but has never been realized.  The subject of spatial net architecture was elaborately covered in his
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] Roland Wieser  Roland Wieser (born 6 May 1956, in Zschopau) is an East German racewalker who won the bronze medal in the 20 kilometer walk during the 1980 Summer Olympics with a time of 1:25:59 hours. During his active career he measured 1.86 meters in height and 68 kg in weight.  Wieser's first success came at an early age, when he became the East German 10 kilometer walk Youth Champion in 1971. In 1975 he became the European Junior Champion in the same event. In 1978, Weiser competed in the East German National Championship and won the 50 kilometer walk; in the same year he achieved his first major success when he became the European Champion in the 20 kilometer walk at the elite level with a time of 1:23:11.5 hours. He followed this two years later with his Olympic bronze medal.  After his Olympic triumph Wieser did not win any additional medals in international competition. In 1982 he finished ninth in the European Championships, in 1983 he managed tenth in the World Championships, and in 1987 he retired from competitive walking.  After his retirement Wieser studied to become an auto mechanic, and later became a sports instructor at the Volkspolizei-Präsidium in Berlin. During these years he ran at the club level for SC Dynamo Berlin and trained under Max Weber.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] Wieser  Wieser is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] Anatoliy Solomin  Anatoliy Vasilyevich Solomin (; born 2 July 1952) is a former Soviet Ukrainian race walker. Solomin competed in men's 20 km walk at the 1980 Summer Olympics and contended for the gold medal, but was disqualified from the lead shortly before the finish. He was European indoor champion in men's 5000 m walk in 1983 and briefly held the 20 km world best. He was born in Komarovka in Penza Oblast.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] Zschopau  Zschopau (), is a town in the Erzgebirgskreis district of Saxony, Germany.
In what city was Roland Wieser born? [SEP] May 6
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP]  in the entire series, dealing with many traumatic events and occurrences from his past as well as during the course of his time on the show. Monte 'Doc' Parker was born in 1962 in New York City, one of 5 sons of John and Mrs Parker. As a youngster, he accidentally killed his best friend over a girl, something that would come back and haunt him in the future. After high school, Monte spent four years at City College, studying business and administration. After graduating, he spent 2 years selling stereos before switching to office suppliers. Bored, Monte considered joining the Air
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP]  Harley Park Parker (June 14, 1872 – March 3, 1941) was a pitcher in Major League Baseball who played from through  for the Chicago Colts (1893, 1895–1896) and Cincinnati Reds (1901). Listed at 6ft 2in, 200 lb, Parker threw and batted right-handed. He was born in Theresa, New York. His younger brother, Jay Parker, also played in the majors. In a four-season career, Parker posted a 5–8 record with 24 strikeouts and a 5.90 ERA in 18 appearances, including 14 starts, 13 complete games, one shutout, one save, and 134 1⁄3 innings of work. Parker was responsible for one of the worst pitching performances in Major League Baseball history. Playing for the Reds against the Brooklyn Superbas on 21 June 1901, Parker gave up 26 hits in the Superbas' 21–3 win. He umpired in the National League during the season. Parker died in Chicago, at the age of 68.
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP]  Joseph Lee Parker Jr. (November 20, 1916 – September 27, 2012) was an American medical doctor. Parker was the last surviving United States Naval physician who participated in the Allied invasion of Omaha Beach on June 6, 1944. Parker was born in Waycross, Georgia, to Joseph Lee Parker Sr. and Vera Estelle Sweat. He graduated from the University of Georgia before completing medical school at the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta, Georgia. Parker began his career at University Hospital in Augusta as an intern. Parker was assigned to the Marine Corps Recruit Depot Parris Island in 1943. He was then transferred to the 6th Amphibious Forces, based at the former Camp
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP]  Parker was born on November 18, 1959 in Portland, Oregon. He is the son of Donald Edward "Don" Parker (1938–2015) and Joan Arlue Sievers (1939-2019). The Parkers had moved to Portland in early 1959 from Kalispell, Montana, to find work but after less than a year in Oregon they moved back to Kalispell, their home town. Parker's great grandfather, originally from Norridgewock, Maine, had moved to the Flathead Valley in 1905 from Parker, Minnesota, to homestead on a farm on the Flathead River, near Demersville, about five miles south of Kalispell and two miles north of Flathead Lake. Parker's father, who by 1963 was an aspiring country western
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP]  Parker was born in Youngstown, Ohio, in 1925 or 1926 (sources differ), and was raised in Chicago by the popular vaudeville duo, Butterbeans and Susie (Jodie and Susie Edwards). He led a band at the Cotton Club in Cincinnati in 1948 which included King Kolax as one of his sidemen, and recorded with Kolax in Los Angeles later that year. He then replaced Rubell Blakely as vocalist in Lionel Hampton's ensemble. His time with Hampton included appearances in the films Lionel Hampton and His Orchestra (1949) and Jelly Roll (1952), and on Hampton's recordings from this time on Decca &ndash; including the 1949 R&B chart hit "Drinkin' Wine Spo-Dee-O-Dee" &ndash; and MGM. He also recorded under his own name, for various labels including Aladdin, Spire, Peacock and Brunswick, often using various members of Hampton's orchestra. He toured Europe with Hampton several times between 1953 and 1955. In March 1955, during a concert at Valenciennes, France, Parker had a brain hemorrhage, from which he did not recover. He returned to the United States and died in hospital in New York City in 1957.
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP] Colonel Tom Parker  Thomas Andrew Parker (born Andreas Cornelis van Kuijk; June 26, 1909 January 21, 1997), commonly known as Colonel Parker, was a Dutch-born musical entrepreneur, best known for being Elvis Presley's manager.  Born in the Netherlands, Parker emigrated illegally to the United States at the age of 20. He changed his name and claimed to have been born in the United States. His Dutch birthplace and immigrant status were not revealed for many years. A carnival worker by background, Parker moved into music promotion in 1938, working with one of the first popular crooners, Gene Austin, and then country music singers Eddy Arnold, Hank Snow, and Tommy Sands in his early career. He also assisted Jimmie Davis's campaign to become Governor of Louisiana. As a reward, Davis gave him the honorary rank of "colonel" in the Louisiana State Militia.  Parker encountered Presley in 1955, and by 1956 had become his sole representative. Within months, he had won him a recording contract with RCA Victor. This contract led to Presley having a commercial breakthrough in 1956 with his first single "Heartbreak Hotel" and rising to become one of the most popular and commercially successful entertainers in the world. Parker was able to receive more than half of the income from the enterprise, an unprecedented figure for a music manager. He negotiated Presley's lucrative merchandising deals, TV appearances, and acting roles in films. He influenced Presley's personal life, including Presley's decisions to accept military service in 1958 and to marry Priscilla Beaulieu in 1967. Parker encouraged Presley to make film musicals which became the focus of his career during his commercial decline in the 1960s until his 1968 comeback and return to touring. Parker rarely saw him after that but continued in his management role until Presley's death in 1977.  For the rest of his life, Parker managed the Presley estate, but having sold the rights to Presley's early recordings to RCA Records, he struggled to secure a steady income, while also suffering significant gambling losses. In 1980, a judge ordered an investigation into Parker's management practices and found that Parker's management had been unethical.<ref name="Victor394"/><ref name="Gaar240"/> Parker's final years were spent living in Las Vegas, in increasingly poor health before his death in 1997.
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP] Dorothy Parker  Dorothy Parker (née Rothschild; August 22, 1893 – June 7, 1967) was an American poet, writer, critic, and satirist based in New York; she was known for her wit, wisecracks, and eye for 20th-century urban foibles.  From a conflicted and unhappy childhood, Parker rose to acclaim, both for her literary works published in magazines, such as "The New Yorker," and as a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table. Following the breakup of the circle, Parker traveled to Hollywood to pursue screenwriting. Her successes there, including two Academy Award nominations, were curtailed when her involvement in left-wing politics resulted in her being placed on the Hollywood blacklist.  Dismissive of her own talents, she deplored her reputation as a "wisecracker." Nevertheless, both her literary output and reputation for sharp wit have endured. Some of her works have been set to music; adaptations included the operatic song cycle "Hate Songs" by composer Marcus Paus.
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP] List of Third Watch characters  "Third Watch" is an American television drama series which first aired on NBC from 1999 to 2005 and followed the lives of an ensemble cast of characters portraying police officers of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) and firefighters and paramedics of the New York City Fire Department (FDNY).
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP] Charlie Parker  Charles Parker Jr. (August 29, 1920 – March 12, 1955), nicknamed "Bird" or "Yardbird", was an American jazz saxophonist, band leader and composer. Parker was a highly influential soloist and leading figure in the development of bebop, a form of jazz characterized by fast tempos, virtuosic technique, and advanced harmonies. Parker was an extremely brilliant virtuoso and introduced revolutionary rhythmic and harmonic ideas into jazz, including rapid passing chords, new variants of altered chords, and chord substitutions. Primarily a player of the alto saxophone, Parker's tone ranged from clean and penetrating to sweet and somber.   Parker acquired the nickname "Yardbird" early in his career on the road with Jay McShann. This, and the shortened form "Bird", continued to be used for the rest of his life, inspiring the titles of a number of Parker compositions, such as "Yardbird Suite", "Ornithology", "Bird Gets the Worm", and "Bird of Paradise". Parker was an icon for the hipster subculture and later the Beat Generation, personifying the jazz musician as an uncompromising artist and intellectual rather than just an entertainer.
In what city was Doc Parker born? [SEP] Joseph Parker (theologian)  Joseph Parker (9 April 1830 – 28 November 1902) was an English Congregational minister.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP]   Giovanni Stefano Marucelli (1586 - c. 1646) was an Italian painter and architect of the Baroque period, active in Tuscany, including Florence and Pisa. His name is also written as Maruscelli, Maruscielli, or Marscelli. Born in Florence, around 1600 he became a pupil of Andrea Boscoli in Pisa. His masterpiece is the Abraham and the angels (1628) in the apse of the Duomo di Pisa. He also painted an Ascencion for the church of the Sacrament in Pistoia; San Carlo Borromeo before a crucifix in the first altar to the right of the church of San Torpe, Pisa; a Coronation of the Virgin in the left chapel of the church of San Nicola, Pisa; St. George and St. Francis in adoration for the church of Santi Quirico e Giulitta in Lugnano; Madonna del Carmelo with the Bambino and Saints Catherine, Peter & Dominic and a Madonna with child and four saints in the church of the Santissima Annunziata in Uliveto Terme. In 1622, he painted an altarpiece depicting the Ascension of Christ (1622) for the Bronconi family altar in the church of San Leone, Pistoia. As an architect, he helped reconstruct the Palazzo dell'Orologio in Pisa.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP]  Francesco Marucelli (1625–1703) was an Italian abbot, bibliographer and bibliophile. Born in Florence into a wealthy and noble family, Marucelli graduated in civil and canon law at the University of Pisa, and then entered the papal court in Rome, where he held the title of abbot. He spent his life collecting books and bequest he donated his extensive collection to the foundation of a library in Florence, the Biblioteca Marucelliana, which was the first institution of this kind in the city which was open to the public. Marucelli was the author of Mare Magnum, a monumental bibliographic catalogue, which over the years grew to 111 volumes and over 6,000 entries which intended to catalogue the publications of that time, divided by subject fields. This work was ordered and published by his grandson Alessandro and is preserved in manuscript form at the Biblioteca Marucelliana.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP]  Morcelli was born at Chiari near Brescia. He studied at the Jesuit College of Brescia and was admitted into the Society of Jesus, 3 November 1753. He successively taught grammar at Fermo, humanities at Ragusa, and oratory at the Roman College where he established an academy of archaeology at the Kircherian Museum. After the suppression of the Society of Jesus (1773) he became librarian to Cardinal Albani and in 1791 was appointed to a provostship in his native town. He declined the offer of the Archbishopric of Ragusa and continued his literary labors in Rome. His first publication was De stilo inscriptionum latinarum (On the style of Latin inscriptions, 1780). In the town of Chiari, his birthplace, to which he afterwards withdrew, he founded an institution for the education of girls, reformed the entire school system, devoted his library to public use, and restored many buildings and churches. Meantime his reputation as an epigraphist, numismatist, and archaeologist increased. Besides his numerous works on this subjects, he published five volumes of sermons and ascetic treatises. When the Society of Jesus was re-established he again took his place in its ranks, and died in Chiari in January 1822, aged eighty-four.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP] Francesco Marucelli, Italian abbot, bibliographer and bibliophile ; Giovanni Stefano Marucelli, Italian painter and architect ; Germana Marucelli, Italian fashion designer Marucelli is a family name of Italian origin. It may refer to:
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP]  Stefano Antonio Morcelli (17 January 1737 – 1 January 1822) was an Italian Jesuit scholar, known as an epigraphist. His work De stilo Latinarum inscriptionum libri III, published in three volumes in 1781, which shows a rigorous method, a novelty and originality of approach, as well as a solid preparation, gave him his European fame and is considered a milestone in the development of epigraphy.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP] Giovanni Stefano Marucelli  Giovanni Stefano Marucelli (1586 - c. 1646) was an Italian painter and architect of the Baroque period, active in Tuscany, including Florence and Pisa.  His name is also written as Maruscelli, Maruscielli, or Marscelli. Born in Florence, around 1600 he became a pupil of Andrea Boscoli in Pisa.  His masterpiece is the "Abraham and the angels" (1628) in the apse of the Duomo di Pisa. He also painted an "Ascencion" for the church of the Sacrament in Pistoia; "San Carlo Borromeo before a crucifix" in the first altar to the right of the church of San Torpe, Pisa; a "Coronation of the Virgin" in the left chapel of the church of San Nicola, Pisa; "St. George and St. Francis in adoration" for the church of Santi Quirico e Giulitta in Lugnano; "Madonna del Carmelo with the Bambino and Saints Catherine, Peter & Dominic" and a "Madonna with child and four saints" in the church of the Santissima Annunziata in Uliveto Terme. In 1622, he painted an altarpiece depicting the "Ascension of Christ" (1622) for the Bronconi family altar in the church of San Leone, Pistoia.  As an architect, he helped reconstruct the Palazzo dell'Orologio in Pisa.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP] 1586 in art  Events from the year 1586 in art.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP] 1646 in art  Events from the year 1646 in art.
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP]
In what city was Giovanni Stefano Marucelli born? [SEP] Italian fashion  Italy is one of the leading countries in fashion design, alongside France, the United States and the United Kingdom. Fashion has always been an important part of the country's cultural life and society, and Italians are well known for their attention to dress; "la bella figura", or good appearance, retains its traditional importance.  Italian fashion became prominent during the 11th to 16th centuries, when artistic development in Italy was at its peak. Cities such as Rome, Palermo, Venice, Milan, Naples, Florence and Vicenza started to produce luxury goods, hats, cosmetics, jewelry and rich fabrics. From the 17th century to the early 20th, Italian fashion lost its importance and lustre and Europe's main trendsetter became France, with the great popularity of French fashion; this is due to the luxury dresses which were designed for the courtiers of Louis XIV. However, since the 1951–53 fashion soirées held by Giovanni Battista Giorgini in Florence, the ""Italian school"" started to compete with the French "haute couture", and labels such as Ferragamo and Gucci began to contend with Chanel and Dior. In 2009, according to the Global Language Monitor, Milan, Italy's centre of design, was ranked the top fashion capital of the world, and Rome was ranked fourth, and, although both cities fell in subsequent rankings, in 2011, Florence entered as the 31st world fashion capital. Milan is generally considered to be one of the "big four" global fashion capitals, along with New York, Paris, and London; occasionally, the "big five" also includes Rome.  Italian fashion is linked to the most generalized concept of "Made in Italy", a merchandise brand expressing excellence of creativity and craftsmanship. Italian luxury goods are renowned for the quality of the textiles and the elegance and refinement of their construction. Many French, British and American high-top luxury brands (such as Chanel, Dior, Balmain and the main line of Ralph Lauren) also rely on Italian craft factories, located in highly specialized areas in the metropolitan area of Naples and in the centre-north of Italy (Tuscany, Marche, Veneto and Piedmont), to produce parts of their apparel and accessories.  The nonprofit association that co-ordinates and promotes the development of Italian fashion is the National Chamber of Italian Fashion (Camera Nazionale della Moda Italiana), now led by Carlo Capasa. It was set up in 1958 in Rome and now is settled in Milan and represents all the highest cultural values of Italian fashion. This association has pursued a policy of organisational support aimed at the knowledge, promotion and development of fashion through high-profile events in Italy and abroad. The talent of young, creative fashion is also promoted in Italy, as in the annual ITS (International Talent Support Awards) young fashion designer competition in Trieste.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP]  Mark Alan Hamilton (born July 29, 1984) is an American former professional baseball first baseman. He was selected in the 2006 Major League Baseball draft by the St. Louis Cardinals. Hamilton made his Major League Baseball debut for the Cardinals in 2010, and remained in the organization through 2012. When his playing career ended in 2014, Hamilton pursued his medical degree. He is now a resident at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Interventional Radiology.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP]  Hamilton was born in the small west-central Illinois city of Galesburg. He grew up in an even smaller town, Oquawka, in Henderson County on the Mississippi River. He attended Union High School in Biggsville, Illinois and the University of Oklahoma, where he played collegiately.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP]  Hamilton was born in 1976 in Ashton, Idaho, a small potato farming community. He attended BYU-Idaho, receiving an associate degree in journalism and public relations. He then transferred to Brigham Young University and earned a bachelor's degree in public relations.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP]  Hamilton was born on March 2, 1971 in Detroit, Michigan.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP]  Hamilton was born in Fulham, southwest London. He was educated at Westminster City School which was then a voluntary aided grammar school and later read English at Downing College, Cambridge, where he was a member of the Cambridge University Light Entertainment Society (CULES).
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP] Matt Hamilton (curler)  Matthew James Hamilton (born February 19, 1989) is an American curler from McFarland, Wisconsin. He is a World Junior Champion, World Men's bronze medalist, and Olympic gold medalist. Hamilton currently plays second for the Duluth, Minnesota-based John Shuster team.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP] Matt Hamilton (racing driver)  Matthew Hamilton (born 2 February 1990 in Hemel Hempstead) is a British auto racing driver. He is best known for competing in the British Touring Car Championship.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP] Becca Hamilton  Rebecca Lynn Hamilton (born July 12, 1990) is an American curler from McFarland, Wisconsin. She is a two-time national women's champion, a two-time national junior champion, and a two-time Olympian. At the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics, she competed in mixed doubles curling with her brother, Matt, along with playing with the women's curling team. During the 2022 Beijing Olympics, she was again on the women's curling team.
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP] Matt Dallas  Matthew Joseph Dallas (born October 21, 1982) is an American actor, best known for playing the title character on the ABC Family series "Kyle XY".
In what city was Matt Hamilton born? [SEP] Matt Hamilton  Matt Hamilton or Matthew Hamilton may refer to:
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP]  William Perry Hay (born in Eureka, Illinois on December 8, 1871; died in 1947) was an American zoologist known for work on crayfish and reptiles. He was the son of Oliver Perry Hay.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP]  Perry was born on October 7, 1832, in Newark, Ohio, the son of John and Ann Perry. He went to school and learned a cabinetmaker's trade in Newark. At the age of twenty-one he made his way with William Welles Hollister and a party of some fifty men and five women, with a collection of cattle, sheep and horses, from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to Los Angeles by way of Salt Lake City and San Bernardino. It was the first transcontinental sheep drive, taking a year to complete. He arrived in Los Angeles either in 1853 or February 1854. Perry later recounted that after his long trip he was "worn out, dead broke and almost naked." He walked into a store and asked the merchant for "the cheapest suit
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP]  Samuel Ross Hay (1865 &ndash; 1944) was an American Bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, elected in 1922. Born 15 October 1865 in Decaturville, Decatur County, Tennessee, he was the son of the Rev. William and Martha (England) Hay. His grandfather was an influential local preacher. The Hays moved to Texas about 1881. Samuel attended Centenary College, Southwestern University, and Southern College, Lakeland, Florida. He was licensed to preach in 1886, joining the North Texas Annual Conference of the M.E. Church, South in 1887. Prior to his election to the Episcopacy, Hay was a pastor and a presiding elder. He was elected Bishop 16 May 1922 and placed in charge of all American Southern Methodist Episcopal Mission work in China. Returning to the United States in 1924, he resided in several episcopal areas in the south and west of the country and assisted in the development of the Methodist Church in Mexico. On June 26, 1928, he offered the opening invocation at the 1928 Democratic National Convention in Houston. Hay died on 4 February 1944 in Houston, Texas.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP]  Hay was born in Banffshire, Scotland, educated at the University of Aberdeen and arrived in Sydney in 1838.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP]  Sam Hay was an footballer who played inside-right for Thames Ironworks, the club that would later become West Ham United. He was born in Renfrewshire, Scotland, and played for Victoria, until being signed up by the Irons for the 1895–96 season, where he became a regular choice.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP] William Perry Hay  William Perry Hay (born in Eureka, Illinois on December 8, 1871; died in 1947) was an American zoologist known for work on crayfish and reptiles. He was the son of Oliver Perry Hay.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP] Oliver Perry Hay  Oliver Perry Hay (May 22, 1846 – November 2, 1930) was an American herpetologist, ichthyologist, and paleontologist.  Hay was born in Jefferson County, Indiana, to Robert and Margaret Hay. In 1870, Hay graduated with a bachelor of arts from Eureka College in Illinois. He taught at the college as a sciences professor from 1870–1873. He married Mary E. Howsmon of Eureka, Illinois, in 1870. He was a professor at Oskaloosa College in Iowa from 1874–1876. He was a student at Yale University from 1876–1877. Seventeen years after earning his bachelors, he earned his PhD from Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana. From 1877–1879, he taught at Abingdon College just before it was incorporated into his alma mater, Eureka College. His longest professorship was at Butler University from 1879–1892. From 1894 to 1895, he worked at the Field Museum of Natural History as assistant curator of zoology, where despite his specialty in ichthyology, he worked in all nonornithological fields of zoology. In 1912, Hay was appointed as a research associate at the Carnegie Institution for Science, and was given office space at the United States National Museum. There, he did much work with the USNM's collections in vertebrate paleontology. He published extensively on fossil turtles and Pleistocene mammals. The catalogs that he constructed were a great aid in recording existing knowledge and became standard references. His papers from 1911 to 1930 are stored at the Smithsonian Institution.<ref name="cox" />  Oliver and Mary had four children together. Their son, William Perry Hay, was also a zoologist.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP] William C. Perry  William C. Perry (March 11, 1900 – October 27, 1985) was an American attorney and jurist in Oregon. He was the 34th Chief Justice of the Oregon Supreme Court. He served in that role twice for a total of five years. Perry was appointed to the court by soon to be ex-governor Douglas McKay after McKay had already appointed him as a county circuit court judge. A native of Kansas, he also worked as a county prosecuting attorney and city attorney prior to joining the state's highest court.
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP] William Talman (actor)  William Whitney Talman Jr., (February 4, 1915August 30, 1968) was an American television and movie actor, best known for playing Los Angeles District Attorney Hamilton Burger in the television series "Perry Mason".
In what city was William Perry Hay born? [SEP] Anthony Wong (Hong Kong actor)  Anthony Wong Chau-sang (born Anthony William Perry; 2 September 1961) is a Hong Kong film actor and singer. He has worked with many significant directors of Hong Kong cinema since his debut in 1985, including John Woo, Andrew Lau, Ringo Lam and Johnnie To, and is known for his intense portrayals of often-amoral characters. He has won the Hong Kong Film Award for Best Actor three times: for "The Untold Story" (1993), "Beast Cops" (1998) and "Still Human" (2018).   He is best known to international audiences for his roles as Triad gangster Johnny Wong in "Hard Boiled" (1992), police Superintendent Wong Chi-shing "Infernal Affairs" trilogy (2002-03) and General Yang in the Hollywood film "" (2008).
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP]   John Z. Robinson (born 25 May 1953 in Foxton, New Zealand) is a New Zealand painter, printmaker, and jeweller. He has lived in Dunedin, New Zealand since 1978.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP]  Robinson was born in Cicero, Illinois, the third of five children of an alcoholic father and a disciplinarian mother. In 1957, he became an Eagle Scout and traveled to London with a group of Scouts who performed before Queen Elizabeth II. He enrolled at Quigley Preparatory Seminary in Chicago, a private boys school for aspiring priests, but dropped out after one year due to disciplinary issues. In 1961, he enrolled at Morton Junior College in Cicero to become a medical radiographer, but dropped out after two years. In 1964, he moved to Kansas City and married Nancy Jo Lynch, who gave birth to their first child, John Jr., in 1965, followed by a daughter, Kimberly, in 1967, and twins Christopher and Christine in 1971.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP]  Robinson is believed to have been born in Surrey, England. His year of birth is uncertain (either 1810 or 1811). He married Mary Gaskell on 22 October 1836 at Derby. They had two children (Eliza (b. 1838) and Samuel (b. 1840) when they decided to emigrate to New Zealand. They arrived in Nelson on the Phoebe on 29 March 1843.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP]  Robinson was born in Wilmington, Delaware, and raised in Tulsa. He moved to New York to attend Columbia University in 1968. Subsequently, he graduated from the Whitney Independent Study Program in 1973. He lived in SoHo in the 1970s and the Lower East Side in the 1980s and '90s, and currently has a studio in Long Island City in Queens.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP]  Born in Owensboro, Kentucky, on July 18, 1860, to parents George H. and Caroline L. (Heard) Robinson, J. W. Robinson was the third of six sons. He was raised on his family's farm and educated in the public school system. After finishing his public school education, he then went on to a college in Carrollton and later attended the National Normal University in Lebanon, Ohio, where he graduated at twenty-one years of age, having completed a scientific course.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP] John Robinson (American football coach)  John Alexander Robinson (born July 25, 1935) is a former American football player and coach best known for his two stints as head coach of the University of Southern California (USC) football team (1976–1982, 1993–1997) and for his tenure as head coach of the NFL's Los Angeles Rams (1983–1991). Robinson's USC teams won four Rose Bowls and captured a share of the national championship in the 1978 season. Robinson is one of the few college football head coaches to have non-consecutive tenure at the same school. In 2009, he was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP] John Edward Robinson  John Edward Robinson (born December 27, 1943) is an American serial killer, con man, embezzler, kidnapper, and forger who was found guilty in 2003 for three murders committed in and around Kansas City, Kansas, receiving the death penalty for two of them. In 2005, he admitted responsibility for five homicides in Missouri as part of a plea bargain to receive multiple life sentences without possibility of parole and avoid more death sentences. Investigators suspect that more victims remain undiscovered.<ref name="ccf"/>  Because he made contact with most of his post-1993 victims via online chatrooms, Robinson is sometimes referred to as "the Internet's first serial killer".
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP] John Robinson (pastor)  John Robinson (1576–1625) was the pastor of the "Pilgrim Fathers" before they left on the "Mayflower". He became one of the early leaders of the English Separatists called Brownists, and is regarded (along with Robert Browne and Henry Barrow) as one of the founders of the Congregational Church.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP] John Robinson (bishop of Woolwich)  John Arthur Thomas Robinson (16 May 1919 – 5 December 1983) was an English New Testament scholar, author and the Anglican Bishop of Woolwich. He was a lecturer at Trinity College, Cambridge, and later Dean of Trinity College until his death in 1983 from cancer. Robinson was considered a major force in New Testament studies and in shaping liberal Christian theology. Along with Harvard theologian Harvey Cox, he spearheaded the field of secular theology and, like William Barclay, he was a believer in universal salvation.
In what city was John Robinson born? [SEP] John Robinson (drummer)  John Frederick Robinson (born December 29, 1954), known professionally as JR, is an American drummer and session musician who has been called "one of the most recorded drummers in history". He is known for his work with producer Quincy Jones, including Michael Jackson's multi-platinum "Off the Wall" album and the charity single "We Are the World".  "Rolling Stone" listed JR in 2016 at number 81 in their list of the top 100 "Greatest Drummers of All Time". He was awarded one Grammy Award for the Rufus/Chaka Khan single "Ain't Nobody", but has played drums on more than 50 Grammy winners.<ref name=DMME/>  JR plays in many different styles. His first fame came with the funk band Rufus, and he recorded dance/funk hits with the Pointer Sisters. In the pop and rock fields, his work stretches from the straight-up rock of John Fogerty, Bonnie Raitt and Peter Frampton, to the mainstream pop of Lady Gaga, Daft Punk, Wilson Phillips and Madonna. JR has backed many contemporary R&B singers including Whitney Houston, Lionel Richie and Anita Baker, as well as vocal pop/soft rock singers such as Barbra Streisand, Seal, Peter Cetera and Rod Stewart. He played on a string of pure country hits by George Strait, Clint Black and Toby Keith. In the 1990s, his film score assignments shifted into high gear, drumming for Hans Zimmer, Christophe Beck and James Newton Howard. And throughout JR's career he has collaborated with jazz artists ranging from Jeff Lorber to David Benoit to Sadao Watanabe. JR said he is "a chameleon kind of drummer".<ref name=DMME/>
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]  He was born at Hattfjelldal in Nordland, Norway. He was a son of Ole Tobias Olsen (1830–1924) and Christine Bernhardine Dahl (1855–1910). His father was a parish pastor in Nordland. Orvin finished his secondary education in 1909 and graduated cand.min. from the Royal Frederick University (now University of Oslo) in mineralogy in 1912. He mostly explored and worked at Spitsbergen, but had tenures in Siberia in 1914. As well as Spitsbergen his expeditions went to East Greenland and Bear Island. He served as operating manager of the molybdenite mines Ornehommen Molybdengruber 1915 to 1916 and at Dalen Gruber in Telemark from 1918 to 1921. He was hired in the Norwegian Polar Institute in 1928. He was acting managing director from 1945 to 1948. He served as sub-director until
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]  Anders Kristian Orvin (24 October 1889 – 2 October 1980) was a Norwegian geologist and explorer.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]  Glenn Anders was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of a Swedish immigrant father. He attended the Wallace dramatic school in California, and began his career performing in vaudeville on the Orpheum circuit. He arrived in New York City in 1919 and attended Columbia University from 1919 until 1921.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]  Karl Edvin Öhrström (August 22, 1906 in Burlöv – December 2, 1994) was a Swedish sculptor and glass artist. Öhrström grew up in Halmstad, where his father worked at the railroad. He started to work as a railroad worker, he trained to become an art teacher at Tekniska skolan (current Konstfack) in Stockholm 1925–1928, and at the sculptural department at the Royal University College of Fine Arts 1928–1931, with Carl Milles and Nils Sjögren as teachers. In 1932, in Paris, France. From 1932 to 1957, he worked two months per year at Orrefors Glasbruk in Småland. He often used the ariel technique, which he had invented together
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]  managing director from 1958 to 1961. He took his dr.philos. degree in 1934 on the thesis Geology of the Kings Bay Region, Spitsbergen. Among his other writings are Geology of Bear Island (1928, with Gunnar Horn) and Outline of the Geological History of Spitsbergen (1940). After the war he wrote The place-names of Jan Mayen (1960). He was a fellow of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters from 1952, was made a Knight, First Class of Order of St. Olav in 1960 and a Knight of the Order of the Polar Star. He died during 1980 and was buried in the cemetery at Vestre Aker Church in Oslo. The Orvin Mountains in Queen Maud Land in Antarctica and Orvin Land in Svalbard are named after him.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP] Anders K. Orvin  Anders Kristian Orvin (24 October 1889 – 2 October 1980) was a Norwegian geologist and explorer.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP] 1889 in Norway  Events in the year 1889 in Norway.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP] Karl Haanshus  Karl Harald Adolf Haanshus (December 26, 1860 – January 3, 1936) was a Norwegian physician and entomologist. He joined the Norwegian Entomological Society in 1915. He was its vice chairman from 1933 to 1935, and he was also a member of the editorial committee of the "Norwegian Journal of Entomology".  Haanshus was born in Kristiania (now Oslo). He received a medical degree in 1888 and practiced for ten years as a city physician () in Fredrikstad. He then moved back to Kristiania, where he worked as a pediatrician until his death on January 3, 1936.<ref name="Rygge"/><ref name="Münster"/>  Haanshus took an early interest in nature and insects, especially butterflies. He also processed the material from Ørjan Olsen's expedition to Siberia, Carl Sofus Lumholtz's trip to Borneo, and Alf Wollebæk's expedition to the Galápagos Islands.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP] 1980 in Norway  Events in the year 1980 in Norway.
In what city was Anders Orvin born? [SEP]
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]  Florence Marie Harsant (née Woodhead, 19 September 1891 &ndash; 19 June 1994) was a New Zealand temperance worker, nurse, community leader and writer. She was born in New Plymouth, New Zealand, on 19 September 1891. In the 1981 Queen's Birthday Honours, Harsant was awarded the Queen's Service Medal for community service.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]  She was born as Florence Ruth Barrett on March 17, 1898 to Frank C. and Maude (née Lawson) Barrett in Pennsylvania. She attended Wilberforce University and later moved to Boston in 1935. LeSueur had been a long-time resident of the South End, a neighborhood in Boston, Massachusetts.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]  Born in Nutley, New Jersey in the United States, he was the son of Henry Smyth Florence, an American musician, and Mary Sargant Florence, a British painter. His sister was Alix Strachey. He was educated at Windlesham House School, Rugby School and Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, before studying for his PhD at Columbia University in New York City. In 1917 he married the writer and birth control advocate Lella Faye Secor. In 1921 he was appointed as a lecturer in economics at the University of Cambridge, and in 1929 he was made Professor of Commerce at the University of Birmingham, where he remained until his retirement in 1955. He was a friend of Robert Dudley Best, and a mentor of Hilde Behrend.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]  Florence Marguerite Schust was born in Saginaw, Michigan, to Frederick Emanuel (1881–1923) and Mina Matilda (Haist) Schust (1884–1931), and was known in familiar circles as "Shu". Frederick Schust was born about 1882 in either Switzerland or Germany and was a native German speaker. The 1920 United States Federal Census describes him as the superintendent of a commercial bakery. Mina was born about 1887 in Michigan, and her parents had been born in Canada. Knoll was orphaned at a young age, her father died when she was 5, her mother died when she was 12. She was placed under the care of Emile Tessin, who had been designated by Mina Schust as
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]  Florence Rose, born in New York City on June 20, 1903, was the youngest of three children and the only daughter of Jewish Hungarian immigrants, Charles and Katie Rosebaum. Rose was raised along with her brothers Felix and Leon in Brooklyn. In addition to secretarial training, her education included study at both Hunter College and Columbia University, but it is not clear whether she ever completed a degree.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP] Florence Harsant  Florence Marie Harsant (née Woodhead, 19 September 1891 – 19 June 1994) was a New Zealand temperance worker, nurse, community leader and writer. She was born in New Plymouth, New Zealand, on 19 September 1891.  In the 1981 Queen's Birthday Honours, Harsant was awarded the Queen's Service Medal for community service.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP] Lleyson Hopkin Davy  L(l)eyson Hopkin Davy (1782– 28 September 1872) was a decorated captain in the Honourable East India Company, political representative of the British government, brewer and early inventive industrialist.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP] 1952 Birthday Honours  The Queen's Birthday Honours 1952 were appointments in many of the Commonwealth realms of Queen Elizabeth II to various orders and honours to reward and highlight good works by citizens of those countries. The appointments were made to celebrate the official birthday of The Queen, and were published in supplements of the "London Gazette" on 30 May 1952 for the United Kingdom and Colonies, Australia, New Zealand, Ceylon, and Pakistan.
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]
In what city was Florence Marie Harsant born? [SEP]
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP]  Diana Karina Estrada Santana is a female beach volleyball player from Mexico, who won the gold medal in the women's beach team competition at the NORCECA Beach Volleyball Circuit 2008 in Guadalajara, Jalisco, partnering Martha Revuelta. Later, in September 2008, she competed with her sister Paola Estrada, at the Internacional de Puerto Vallarta Beach Volleyball Tournament in Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, winning the Bronze medal. Diana started playing internacional beach volleyball at the age of 17 at the 2003 Swatch-FIVB U-19 World Championships in Pattaya Thailand, partnering with Martha Revuelta and losing the bronze medal match 21-19, 17-21, 15-7 from Frederike Fischer-Sandra Piasecki, from Germany. After that she played at the FIVB Women's International Acapulco Tournament, with her sister Paola in 2005 finishing 33rd. In 2006, she played in the SWATCH-FIVB U-21 Women's World Championship in Mysłowice, Poland Finishing in 9th place. She also played with Martha Revuelta in 2005, and with Vanessa Virgen finishing 25th at the 2006 FIVB Women's International Acapulco Tournament. She also played for the U-20 Mexico indoor women's national volleyball team in the 2006 NORCECA Women´s Junior Continental Championship U-20 as setter. Her team finished in 6th. place.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP]  Diana Bracho (born Diana Guadalupe Bracho y Bordes Mangel, in Mexico City, Mexico, 12 December 1944) is a Mexican actress.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP]  Born in Rio Piedras, Puerto Rico, she and her family moved to New York City when she was a child. They lived in public housing after living in shelters. She received an associate degree in Human Services from Bronx Community College.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP]  She made her film debut as a child actress in two of her father's films: San Felipe (1949) and Immaculate Conception (1950). She studied Philosophy and Letters in New York. She debuted professionally on stage in the play Israfel by Abelardo Rodríguez alongside Sergio Bustamante. Her television debut was in 1973. Diana Bracho won the Silver Ariel award twice, the first time in 1973. She won her second Silver Ariel for El infierno, de todos tan temído and was nominated for Best Actress for Letters from Marusia (1976) and Entre Pancho Villa y una mujer desnuda (1996). On August 6, 2002 she was appointed president of the Academia Mexicana de Artes y Ciencias Cinematográficas.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP]  Diana Reyes (born November 18, 1979) is a regional Mexican musical artist. Reyes was born in La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico. She has released three gold records since 2004: La Reina del Pasito Duranguense, Las No. 1 de la Reina, and Te Voy a Mostrar. Reyes holds strong ties to her father's native state of Sinaloa and her mother's native Sonora.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP] Diana Estrada  Diana Karina Estrada Santana is a female beach volleyball player from Mexico, who won the gold medal in the women's beach team competition at the NORCECA Beach Volleyball Circuit 2008 in Guadalajara, Jalisco, partnering Martha Revuelta. Later, in September 2008, she competed with her sister Paola Estrada, at the "Internacional de Puerto Vallarta Beach Volleyball Tournament" in Puerto Vallarta, Jalisco, winning the Bronze medal.  Diana started playing internacional beach volleyball at the age of 17 at the 2003 Swatch-FIVB U-19 World Championships in Pattaya Thailand, partnering with Martha Revuelta and losing the bronze medal match 21-19, 17-21, 15-7 from Frederike Fischer-Sandra Piasecki, from Germany.  After that she played at the "FIVB Women's International Acapulco Tournament", with her sister Paola in 2005 finishing 33rd.  In 2006, she played in the "SWATCH-FIVB U-21 Women's World Championship" in Mysłowice, Poland Finishing in 9th place. She also played with Martha Revuelta in 2005, and with Vanessa Virgen finishing 25th at the "2006 FIVB Women's International Acapulco Tournament".  She also played for the U-20 Mexico indoor women's national volleyball team in the 2006 NORCECA Women´s Junior Continental Championship U-20 as setter. Her team finished in 6th. place.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP] Anthony Allen Shore  Anthony Allen Shore (June 25, 1962 – January 18, 2018) was an American serial killer and child molester who was responsible for the murder of one woman and three girls. He was active from 1986 to 2000, and became known as the "Tourniquet Killer" because of his use of a ligature with either a toothbrush or bamboo stick to tighten or loosen the ligature. The instrument was similar to a garotte or a twitch, a tool used by farmers to control horses.<ref name="mitchell" /> Shore was sentenced to death in 2004, and executed by lethal injection on January 18, 2018.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP] Alejandra Ambrosi  Alejandra Ambrosi is a Mexican television actress. Born in Mexico City, Mexico. Known for participating in several Mexican telenovelas, series and films. She is best known for her remarkable characters in telenovelas such as "Dulce amargo", "Las trampas del deseo", and "Las Malcriadas".
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP] Martha Revuelta  Martha Revuelta Jiménez (born September 6, 1986, in Mexico City) is a female beach volleyball and volleyball player from Mexico, who played during the Swatch FIVB World Tour 2005 playing with Teresa Galindo.  Participating at the "2003 SWATCH-FIVB U-18 World Championships" in Pattaya Thailand, and partnering Diana Estrada, they finished in the 4th place, after losing the bronze medal match 21–19, 17–21, 15-7 from Frederike Fischer-Sandra Piasecki, from Germany.  She also represented her home country at the 2006 Central American and Caribbean Games partnering Vanessa Virgen and winning the silver medal. That year she was the volleyball female recipient of the "Luchador Olmeca" Award.  At the NORCECA Beach Volleyball Circuit 2008 she won the gold medal at the Guadalajara Tournament.
In what city was Diana Estrada born? [SEP] Joseph Estrada  Joseph Ejercito Estrada, (; born Jose Marcelo Ejercito; April 19, 1937), also known by the nickname Erap, is a Filipino politician and former actor. He served as the 13th president of the Philippines from 1998 to 2001, the 9th vice president of the Philippines from 1992 to 1998, and the 21st mayor of the City of Manila, the country's capital, from 2013 to 2019. In 2001, he became the first chief executive in Asia to be formally impeached and resigned from power. At the age of 85, he is currently the oldest living former Philippine President.  Estrada gained popularity as a film actor, playing the lead role in over a hundred films in an acting career spanning some three decades. He also worked as a model, beginning as a fashion and ramp model at the age of 13. He used his popularity as an actor to make gains in politics, serving as mayor of San Juan from 1969 to 1986, as senator from 1987 to 1992, then as vice president under President Fidel V. Ramos from 1992 to 1998.  Estrada was elected president in 1998 with a wide margin of votes separating him from the other challengers and was sworn into the presidency on June 30, 1998. In 2000 he declared an "all-out-war" against the Moro Islamic Liberation Front and captured its headquarters and other camps. Allegations of corruption spawned an impeachment trial in the Senate, and in 2001 Estrada was ousted by People Power 2 after the prosecution walked out of the impeachment court when the senator-judges voted not to open an envelope that allegedly contained incriminating evidence against him.  In 2007, Estrada was sentenced by a special division of the Sandiganbayan to reclusión perpetua under a charge of plunder for the embezzlement of $80 million from the government but was later granted a pardon by the president and his former deputy, Gloria Macapagal Arroyo. He ran for president again in the 2010 presidential election but was defeated by Senator Benigno Aquino III by a wide margin. He later served as mayor of Manila for two terms, from 2013 to 2019.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP]  Hunte was born in Brooklyn, New York and raised in Barataria, Trinidad and Tobago where her family originated. She was the only child of her parents to be born in the United States. Shortly after her birth, the family returned to Trinidad and Tobago where she was raised. In the early 90s, Hunte was part of the short-lived Motown Records quartet 7669. They released one studio album - 1993's 7669 East from a Bad Block. She is married to Sound Engineer/Mix Engineer and Grammy Award winner James Wisner and has two children, King Zion Wisner, and Brooklyn Rose Wisner.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP]  Terry was born in Hutchinson, Kansas, received a BFA from Drake University, an MA and MFA in sculpture from the University of Iowa. He later worked in New York City and then Detroit. While in Detroit, Terry earned an MA in Architecture from Cranbrook Academy of Art. Terry has also exhibited with Marina DeBris.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP]  Alan Hunte was born in Wakefield, West Riding of Yorkshire, England.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP]  Terence Joseph Goode (born 29 October 1961) is an English former professional footballer who played in the Football League for Birmingham City and for Kettering Town in the Alliance Premier League. Goode was born in Islington, London. When he left school in 1977, he joined Birmingham City as an apprentice, and turned professional two years later. A pacy winger, Goode made his debut in the First Division in the penultimate game of the 1980–81 season, on 25 April 1981 away at Leicester City, when he came on as substitute to replace Pat Van Den Hauwe. The arrival of wingers Bud Brocken and Toine van Mierlo restricted his chances of first-team football, and in August 1982 he joined Kettering Town of the Alliance Premier League. Goode is a nephew of England international Charlie George.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP]  Born in the Netherlands, Hunte is of Surinamese descent.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP] Terry Hunte  Terence Anderson Hunte (born 4 April 1962) is a former Barbadian cricketer. Hunte was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm medium pace. He was born in Saint Philip, Barbados.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP] Hunte (surname)  Hunte is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP] Ross Hunter  Ross Hunter (born Martin Terry Fuss; May 6, 1916 or 1920 – March 10, 1996) was an American film and television producer and actor. He is best known for producing light comedies such as "Pillow Talk" (1959), and the glamorous melodramas "Magnificent Obsession" (1954), "Imitation of Life" (1959), and "Back Street" (1961).  Over the course of his career, Hunter produced films of various genres but found his greatest success with light-hearted comedies, musicals and melodramatic "tear jerkers" that were high on romance and glamour.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP] Torii Hunter  Torii Kedar Hunter (; born July 18, 1975) is an American former professional baseball center fielder and right fielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Minnesota Twins, Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, and Detroit Tigers from 1997 through 2015. Hunter was a five-time All-Star, won nine consecutive Gold Glove Awards as a center fielder, and was a two-time Silver Slugger Award winner.
In what city was Terry Hunte born? [SEP] Hunter Woodhall  Hunter Woodhall (born on February 17, 1999) is an American track and field athlete. He won a bronze medal in the Men's 400m T62 at the 2020 Summer Paralympics. On 16 October 2022, Woodhall married his longtime girlfriend, Olympian Tara Woodhall.  He made his international debut in 2015 with a silver and bronze medal at the 2015 IPC Athletics World Championships, and later won a bronze and silver medal at the 2016 Summer Paralympics. After graduating from Syracuse High School, he became the first double amputee to earn an NCAA Division I scholarship.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP]  McDonald was born in Coldwater, Ohio, on November 29, 1886. His parents operated a hotel, and later relocated to Albany, Indiana, to operate a second one. McDonald received his bachelor's degree from Indiana University Bloomington (IU) in 1909, and completed a master's degree in History, Political Science and International Relations at IU in 1910. He was selected for a teaching fellowship in history at Harvard University, and remained there until his returning to Indiana University as an assistant professor in 1914. While living in Albany McDonald met Ruth Stafford, and they married in 1915. They had two children, daughters Barbara Ann and Janet. McDonald's nephew was University of Connecticut library director John P. McDonald. McDonald taught at IU until 1918, including a break in 1915 and 1916 to study in Spain as a Harvard University traveling fellow. He also taught summer sessions at the University of Georgia in 1916 and 1917. In 1919 McDonald moved to New York City to work for the Civil Service Reform Association.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP]  McDonald was born in Spring Lake, New Jersey, on April 28, 1944, to Helen (née Storminger) and John McDonald. His mother was a homemaker and his father was an insurance executive. He grew up in a single parent household with his father leaving before he was born. He spent much of his early years visiting his mother who was in a hospital with tuberculosis. He attended a Catholic elementary and middle school. He would attribute his upbringing to the learnings from priests in the school. He was known to have had ambitions to becoming the President and had subscribed to The Congressional Record as early as 8.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP]  McDonald was born in Washington, D.C., United States, and grew up in El Monte, California, where he was student conductor and president of his high school marching band. At the age of 17, he enlisted in the United States Navy for three years and was stationed in Japan. After his enlistment, he attended Los Angeles City College for a year. In the early 1960s, he began busking on Telegraph Avenue in Berkeley, California. His father, Worden McDonald, from Oklahoma, was of Scottish Presbyterian heritage (the son of a minister) and worked for a telephone company. His mother, Florence Plotnick, was the daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants and served for many years on the Berkeley City Council. In their youth, both were Communist Party members before renouncing the cause, and named their son after Joseph Stalin.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP]  McDonald was born and raised in Cohoes, New York where he would later serve as Mayor from 1999 to 2012. In 1985, he graduated from the Albany College of Pharmacy and went on to open Marra's Pharmacy which is located in Cohoes, where he and his family still reside today. Formerly, McDonald served as the President of the New York Conference of Mayors.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP]  Born in Barrow-in-Furness, Lancashire, McDonald began his career with his hometown club Barrow before joining Workington. A move to Liverpool followed but he did not break into the first team, and was loaned to Colchester United before joining Mansfield Town in July 1975, with whom he won the Third Division title in 1976–77. He moved to York City where he became a regular in midfield before joining Aldershot in November 1981, in exchange for Malcolm Crosby. At Aldershot he gained renown as a skilful midfielder and captained the side to promotion to the Third Division under Len Walker in 1987. After leaving League football in 1989 to join Farnborough Town, he returned to Aldershot as caretaker manager following the resignation of Brian Talbot in November 1991. However, the Hampshire club was now deep in debt and struggling back in the Fourth Division, having narrowly avoided going out of
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP] Steven McDonald  Steven D. McDonald (March 1, 1957 January 10, 2017) was a New York City Police Department patrolman who was shot and paralyzed on July 12, 1986. The shooting left him quadriplegic.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP] Steven Shane McDonald  Steven Shane "Steve" McDonald (born May 24, 1967) is an American rock musician, best known as the bass guitarist in the Los Angeles alternative rock/power pop band Redd Kross. He is a founding member of the hardcore punk band Off! – serving as a member from 2009 to 2021 – as well as the current bassist for the Melvins. McDonald has appeared in numerous film projects with his older brother Jeff McDonald, including the 1984 film "Desperate Teenage Lovedolls" and its sequel "Lovedolls Superstar"; and the 1990 film "Spirit of '76".
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP] Steve McDonald (cricketer)  Stephen 'Steve' McDonald (born 2 October 1974) is a former English cricketer. McDonald was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm off break. He was born at Birmingham, Warwickshire.  McDonald represented the Warwickshire Cricket Board in List A cricket. His debut List A match came against Berkshire in the 1999 NatWest Trophy. From 1999 to 2001, he represented the Board in 4 matches, the last of which came against Lancashire in the 2001 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy. In his 5 List A matches, he scored 51 runs at a batting average of 12.75, with a high score of 25.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP] Steve McDonald (Celtic music)  Steve McDonald (born 9 September 1950) is a New Zealand composer, singer, and instrumentalist who performs in the Celtic fusion musical style. He performed in rock bands Timberjack, Dizzy Limits, and Human Instinct before embarking on a solo career. He has composed musical scores for television shows and documentaries. Beginning in the early 1990s, McDonald has explored his Scottish heritage through a series of Celtic recordings. He is published on the Etherean Music music label.
In what city was Steve McDonald born? [SEP] Steve McDonald  Steve or Stephen McDonald may refer to:
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]  Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain (born September 30, 1970)  is a Spanish ski mountaineer. Zubizarreta was born in Oiartzun. She started ski mountaineering in 1997 and competed first in the Cronoescalada race in Cerler in 2006. In the same year, she became a member of the national team.
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]  Zubizarreta was born in Ordizia, Gipuzkoa. He published his first book in 1991, Ametsetako mutila, and has since published a long series of books of many different genres, especially stories inspired by the traditional world. Regarding the issues, he has prioritized the issue of immigration, especially between North Africa and Europe that explains in such a way that it can be understood by the children, as in the book Usoa. His work has been translated into many languages, such as Castilian, Catalan, Galician, Asturian, Aragonese, English, Slovenian and Korean. Zubizarreta has also dedicated himself to translating Basque authors such as Abdela Taia, Najib Mahfuz, and Eric-Emmanuel Schmitt into Euskera. In his role as a creator of poetic musical shows Flying over paper / Paperean Hegan, he presented at the International IBBY Congress held in London in collaboration with Galtzagorri Elkartea and the Etxepare Institute, as well as the show Ants, horses, Elephants / Inurriak, zaldiak, elefanteak, presented at the International Children's Book Fair in Bologna.
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP] 2006: ; 1st, Spanish Championship team (together with María Luisa Romerales) ; 1st, Spanish Cup ; 2nd, Spanish Championship single ; 3rd, Spanish Championship vertical race ; 5th, World Championship relay race (together with Gemma Arró Ribot, Naila Jornet Burgada and Cristina Bes Ginesta) ; 9th, World Championship team race (together with Cristina Bes Ginesta) ; 2007: ; 1st, Spanish Championship vertical race ; 6th, European Championship relay race (together with Gemma Arró Ribot and Maribel Martín de la Iglesia) ; 8th, European Championship team race (together with Gemma Arró Ribot) ; 2008: ; 4th, World Championship combination ranking ; 5th, World Championship relay race (together with Cristina Bes
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]  Sabiha Ziya was born in İstanbul in 1904. She had a sister and an elder brother. She was schooled at Eyubsultan Numune School, now known as Eyüp Anatolian High School. She lived four years in Damaskus, Syria (then a part of Ottoman Empire), where her father was assigned to due to his occupation. She continued her education there, attending a French Catholic school for one year. The family returned home and settled in Büyükada, where she completed her secondary education at Köprülü Fuat Pasha School. In 1920, he began studying fine arts in the Painting Department and the Sculpture Department of Istanbul Academy of Fine Arts (, current
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]  Patxi Zubizarreta (born 25 January 1964) is a Spanish writer who writes in the Basque language (Euskara). He studied Basque philology in Vitoria, where he currently resides. He is an author of children's and youth literature, a specialty in which he has won several prizes, has also been dedicated to translation and literature for adults and has a facet as creator of shows that combine music, image and literature. He was included in the White Ravens catalog and the IBBY Honor Roll.
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP] Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain  Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain (born September 30, 1970) is a Spanish ski mountaineer.  Zubizarreta was born in Oiartzun. She started ski mountaineering in 1997 and competed first in the Cronoescalada race in Cerler in 2006. In the same year, she became a member of the national team.
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP] Zubizarreta  Zubizarreta is a Basque surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP] Cristina Bes Ginesta  Cristina "Tina" Bes (i) Ginesta (born 21 March 1977) is a Catalan ski mountaineer.  Bes was born in Girona. She started ski mountaineering in 1999 and competed first in the same year. In 2000, she became a member of the national team. Her brother Jordi is also a competition ski mountaineer.
In what city was Izaskun Zubizarreta Gerendiain born? [SEP]
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP]  Grant Bramwell (born 28 January 1961 in Gisborne, New Zealand) is a sprint canoeist who competed in the 1980s. Competing in two Summer Olympics, he won a gold medal in the K-4 1000 m at Los Angeles in 1984 with Alan Thompson, Ian Ferguson and Paul MacDonald. Bramwell also won a K-1 10000 m bronze at the 1985 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Mechelen. After retiring from top-level canoeing Bramwell was a selector for New Zealand canoeing in the 1990s.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP]  Michael Bramwell is an American visual artist based in North Carolina. He graduated from Oakwood University in Huntsville, Alabama and received a Master of Arts from Columbia University, an M.F.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and a PhD candidate in the Department of American Studies. He is an Andrew W. Mellon Humanities for the Public Good Fellow and an alumnus of the MoMA/P.S.1 National Studio Program and the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine. He has exhibited work at: Neuberger Museum of Art, New Museum of Contemporary Art, The Portland Museum of Art, MoMA/P.S.1, International Print Center, Sotheby's, Jack Tilton Gallery, Gagosian Gallery, Delaware Center for Contemporary Art and Florida Center for Contemporary Art. His work is included in Public Collections of: Jersey City Museum, New School University, New York City, Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP]  The son of Salvationists, he was born in Kitchener, Ontario. His parents had emigrated in 1928 from the United Kingdom. As he grew up, he became a Junior Soldier and a Corps Cadet. He joined a Young People's (YP) Band and then a Senior Band. When he won the honour student award at a music camp for his cornet playing, Maude Pitcher was the runner up. They married each other in 1953. Their first child, Barbara Tillsley, was born the following year. Bramwell and Maude Tillsley entered the training college as cadets in the 'Sword Bearers' session. In 1956, they became officers of
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP]  Bramwell was born on 18 December 1847 in North Shields in northern England, the son of Mary Young and Dr John Byrom Bramwell. He was educated at Cheltenham College and then in 1865 travelled to Scotland to study medicine at the University of Edinburgh. There he studied under the eminent anatomist, John Goodsir, John Hughes Bennett, James Syme, and James Young Simpson, a truly luminary group of teachers, evidencing Edinburgh’s position in the forefront of medical education. A keen sportsman, Bramwell also captained the University cricket team.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP]  Educated at Perth Grammar School and Edinburgh University, he graduated M.B. C.M. (Medicinae Baccalaureus, Chirurgiae Magister) at Edinburgh University in 1873, in the same cohort as Charles Braid (1850–1897), the grandson of James Braid.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP] Grant Bramwell  Grant Bramwell (born 28 January 1961 in Gisborne, New Zealand) is a sprint canoeist who competed in the 1980s. Competing in two Summer Olympics, he won a gold medal in the K-4 1000 m at Los Angeles in 1984 with Alan Thompson, Ian Ferguson and Paul MacDonald. Bramwell also won a K-1 10000 m bronze at the 1985 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Mechelen.  After retiring from top-level canoeing Bramwell was a selector for New Zealand canoeing in the 1990s.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP] John Grant (Queensland politician)  John Bramwell Grant (born 1954) is an Australian politician. He was a Liberal National Party member of the Legislative Assembly of Queensland from 2012 to 2015, representing the electorate of Springwood.  Grant was born in Brisbane, and operated his own building design and drafting company before entering politics. He was elected to the Logan City council in 1997, and was deputy mayor from 2004 to 2008. He was narrowly defeated at the 2008 council elections by Aidan McLindon, but regained his council seat in 2009 upon McLindon's election to parliament. He contested Woodridge as an independent at the 2001 state election, polling 10.9% of the vote.  Grant joined the Liberal National Party in October 2010, citing dissatisfaction with the Labor government's water policy. He subsequently won LNP preselection to contest the state seat of Springwood, held by four-term Labor MLA Barbara Stone, at the 2012 state election. The seat had changed parties with each change of government since its inception in 1986. He went on to win the seat with a swing of more than 15 points as part of the LNP's landslide victory. Grant was appointed to the Transport, Housing and Local Government Committee upon his election.<ref name="abc" /><ref name="parl" />  He was defeated by Labor candidate Mick de Brenni in the LNP defeat at the 2015 state election.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP] Bramwell (name)  Bramwell is a surname derived from an unidentified hamlet in England, the name of which comes from the Old English for 'broom' or 'bramble well'. The location of the place it referred to is difficult to trace, as the surname is distributed fairly evenly throughout England.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP] Grant (given name)  Grant is an English given name derived from the French "grand" meaning 'tall' or 'large'. It was originally a nickname given to those with remarkable size.
In what city was Grant Bramwell born? [SEP] John Milne Bramwell  John Milne Bramwell (11 May 1852 – 16 January 1925) was a Scottish physician, surgeon and specialist medical hypnotist. He was born in Perth and educated at the University of Edinburgh.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]  Valentin Aleksandrovich Avrorin (December 23 1907, Tambov - February 26 1977, Leningrad) was a Corresponding Member of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR and an expert in languages. He was born in Tambov, Russia to a family of teachers. He was outstanding in the sphere of Tungusic languages, and was one of the active creators of the Nanai written language. In 1925 Avrorin graduated from one of the Tambov schools.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]  In 1930, graduated from the Faculty of History and Ethnology of the Saint Petersburg State University. In 1956, defended PhD in Philology. Professor, Department of General Linguistics, Faculty of Humanities, Novosibirsk State University, the first dean of the faculty. June 26, 1964 elected a corresponding member of the Academy of Sciences of the Soviet Union.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]  Avrorin Valentin Alexandrovich (Bibliography)
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]  Born in Béziers, Joseph Valentin Duc was a French singer, operatic forte ténor. He is known for his repertoire at the Opéra de Paris, the Théâtre des Arènes in Béziers and world tours that took him from Monte Carlo to St. Petersburg, from Baltimore to Seville... Son of Valentin Duc (or Duch) and Marie Fabre, originating from Tignes (kingdom of Savoy), he was the third in a line of eight children. These parents moved to Béziers in 1850, joining a previously established Duc branch (Jean Duc, trader, spouse Anne-Marie Gayraud, and Laurent Duc, everyday worker), spouse Marie Peronne). In the Census Table of Class 1878, he is noted as postilion of occupation on that date. He left Béziers in 1879 for his military service at Rochefort. His fencing practice must have encouraged his stage
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]  Yanin was born in Vyatka. His maternal grandparents were arrested in 1937 and died in a prison camp in 1938. His father was apparently on a list to be executed but escaped this fate and moved with his family to Moscow. Yanin finished his secondary education in 1946, graduating with a Gold Medal; he matriculated at Moscow State University in 1951.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP] Valentin Avrorin  Valentin Aleksandrovich Avrorin (December 23 1907, Tambov - February 26 1977, Leningrad) was a Corresponding Member of the Academy of Sciences of the USSR and an expert in languages. He was born in Tambov, Russian Empire to a family of teachers. He was outstanding in the sphere of Tungusic languages, and was one of the active creators of the Nanai written language. In 1925 Avrorin graduated from one of the Tambov schools.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP] List of people from Tambov  This is a list of notable people who were born or have lived in Tambov, Tambov Oblast, Russia.
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP]
In what city was Valentin Avrorin born? [SEP] Nanai people  The Nanai people are a Tungusic people of East Asia who have traditionally lived along Heilongjiang (Amur), Songhuajiang (Sunggari) and Wusuli River on the Middle Amur Basin. The ancestors of the Nanai were the Jurchens of northernmost Manchuria (Outer Manchuria).  The Nanai/Hezhe language belongs to the Manchu-Tungusic languages. According to the 2010 census there were 12,003 Nanai in Russia.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]  Born on March 5, 1915 in Skoplje (now Skopje), Kingdom of Serbia, (present-day North Macedonia), Markovski completed his secondary education in Skoplje, later studying Slavic philology in Sofia. Markovski was a member of the Macedonian Literary Group founded in Skoplje in 1931, the Macedonian Literary Circle in Sofia, Bulgaria (1938–1941). He is an important figure in contemporary Macedonian literature after has published in 1938, what was to be the first contemporary book written in non-dialectal Macedonian language, "Narodni bigori". As the most of the left-wing politicians from Macedonia he has changed his ethnic affiliations from Bulgarian to Macedonian during the 1930s, after the recognition of the Macedonian ethnicity from the
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]  Markovski is born on April 14, 1939 in Sofia, Kingdom of Bulgaria in the family of prominent Macedonian and Bulgarian writer and poet, anti-Nazi partisan and politician Venko Markovski. During the Second World War, Markovski was taken by his parents to the Yugoslav partisans at the age of 5. After the end of the war, he remained in Skopje, the capital of the newly founded People's Republic of Macedonia, where he graduated Slavic philology at the University of Skopje. Until 1968 he lived and worked in Skopje, as an editor-in-chief of the "Nas svet" newspaper, published by Detska Radost publishing house. He was also an active chess player, competing in Yugoslavia. Forced by the Yugoslav secret police UDBA, in 1968 he moved with his family to Bulgaria, where his father, Venko
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]   Aleksandar Marković (born in Belgrade, August 7, 1975) is a Serbian conductor. Marković studied conducting at the Universität für Musik und darstellende Kunst (Vienna), in the class of Leopold Hager. He earned a Diploma d'onore at the Accademia Musicale Chigiana in Siena, where he attended a master class in conducting. He was a holder of the Herbert von Karajan Foundation's scholarship. In 2003, he won the First Prize at The Grzegorz Fitelberg International Competition for Conductors (7th) in Katowice, Poland. Marković was a chief conductor of Tyrolean Opera House from Innsbruck, Austria (Tiroler Landestheater Innsbruck), from 2005 to 2008. He was a Music Director and Principal Conductor of the Brno Philharmonic Orchestra from 2009 to 2015. Markovic was the Music Director of Opera North for the 2016/2017 season.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]  Danveski was born in Saramzalino, then in SFR Yugoslavia on 25 July 1947. He grew up in SR Macedonia, where he was adopted at the age of 4 by his uncle. His adopted father played an early role in shaping Danevski into a young artist. He regularly attended a Macedonian Orthodox Church in Berovo with his grandmother, where he became fascinated by its décor. The church, situated in an archaeological town, features some of the earliest Byzantine icons and frescoes that date back centuries. He pursued his passion for art throughout his education. He married at a young age and settled in Vinica. He specialized in art in High School in Skopje, SR Macedonia and later completed his education in 1972 after graduating with a master's degree from the University of Ljubljana where he was mentored by Gabriel Stupica and Zoran Didek. Following his graduation, he spent a number of years travelling between various countries and cities, including Spain, Germany, Austria, France, Switzerland, Russia and Italy, before emigrating to Toronto, Canada in 1995.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]  Gorjan Markovski started his senior career at KK Rabotnicki Skopje (2009/10) at the age of 17. However, at his early rise he didn't get a greater chance in the club among Darko Sokolov, Enes Hadzibulic and Dimitar Mirakovski. The same year after leaving the U-16 national team he started training with the U-18 national team as a top prospect jet to set his "shine" in basketball.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP]
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP] Markoski  Markoski is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP] Gorjan Markovski  Gorjan Markovski (; born June 19, 1992) with Rabotnički. He is in height and plays at the shooting guard position. He was a member of U-20 Macedonian national team.  His older brother Jovan Markovski is also a basketball player.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP] Macedonian Australians  Macedonian Australians (Macedonian: Македонски Австралијанци) are Australian citizens of Macedonian descent. Many arrived in the 1920s and 1930s, although larger numbers came to Australia after World War II and the Greek Civil War. By far the largest wave of immigration was during the 1960s and 1970s. As of the 2021 Australian census, Macedonian is the most-spoken Eastern European language in Australia.
In what city was Aleksandar Markovski born? [SEP] List of Macedonians (ethnic group)  This is a list of the Macedonians () ethnic group.
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP]  Tsugumi Higasayama (日笠山亜美) is a Japanese voice actress from Saitama, Japan. Her name is sometimes misread as Ami Higasayama.
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP]  born in Konohana-ku, Osaka grew up in Kawanishi ; Minako Nishiyama, contemporary artist ; Masamune Shirow, manga artist was born in Kobe ; So Taguchi, outfielder for the Chicago Cubs ; Masahiro Tanaka, pitcher for the New York Yankees ; Nagaru Tanigawa, creator of the Haruhi Suzumiya series was born in Kinki ; Tsuneko Taniuchi, contemporary performance artist ; Fumito Ueda, video game creator of Ico, Shadow of the Colossus, and The Last Guardian ; Juri Ueno, Japanese Academy Award-winning actress best known for her performances in Swing Girls and the live-action adaptation of Nodame Cantabile, is from Kakogawa ; Shota Yasuda, guitarist of Kanjani Eight is from Amagasaki ; Piko, musician, Vocaloid singer born in Kobe, Hyōgo
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP] Masumi Asano (born 1977), Japanese seiyu ; Momoko Tsugunaga (born 1992), Japanese singer
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP]  Tsugumi (つぐみ), born Otake Tsuzumi (大竹 都々美) on 21 February 1976, is a Japanese award-winning actress, model and adult video performer.
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP]  Hirayama was born on January 1, 1923, in Kyoto, Japan. When he was three, his father, Tohshi Hirayama, became professor of surgery at Manchuria Medical College, which led to him and his family moving to the city of Harbin in China. Hirayama graduated from Manchuria Medical College in 1945, and received a degree in medical science from Kyoto University in 1951 and a Master of Public Health degree from Johns Hopkins University in 1952.
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP] Tsugumi Higasayama
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP] Psychic Academy
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP]
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP] List of Genesis of Aquarion characters  This is a list of characters from the anime series Genesis of Aquarion.
In what city was Tsugumi Higasayama born? [SEP] List of Pani Poni characters  This is a list of characters in Pani Poni.
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] Benedikt Niese (1849–1910), German classical scholar ; Charlotte Niese (1854–1935), German writer, poet and teacher ; Danielle de Niese (born 1979), Australian-born soprano ; Hansi Niese (Johanna Niese, 1875–1934), Austrian actress ; Jon Niese (born 1986), American baseball player Niese is a surname, and may refer to:
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP]  Niese was born in Burg on the island of Fehmarn, then under the direct rule of King Frederick VII of Denmark. Her father was the local pastor who later became director of a seminary in Eckernförde. Her mother was Benedicte Marie Niese (born Matthiesen). Charlotte Niese passed her exams as a teacher in Eckernförde, and she became a tutor in what was, since 1866, the Prussian Province of Schleswig-Holstein, in the Rhine Province, and as a boarding school teacher in Montreux. Niese went with her mother, then a widow, to Plön and began publishing her writings, at first under the masculine pseudonym "Lucian Bürger". In 1884, Niese settled in the city of Altona, where her mother used to live, and in 1888 she moved to Ottensen, which in 1889 became a part of Altona. She no longer needed to work as a teacher, as she
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP]  Ralph Niese (* March 14 1983 in Leipzig; † November 23 2020) was a German comic artist, graphic artist and illustrator.
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP]  Biesenbach was born in Bergisch Gladbach, West Germany. From 1987, he began studying medicine in Munich before moving to Berlin, where he shared an apartment with artist Andrea Zittel at one point.
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] Klaus Niedzwiedz (born 1951), racing driver and television presenter ; Ulla Burchardt (born 1954), politician (SPD) ; Klaus Segbers (born 1954), political scientist and professor ; Antony Theodore (born 1954), poet, educator and social worker ; Susanne Kippenberger (born 1957), journalist and writer ; Achim Peters (born 1957), obesity specialist ; Barbara Havliza (born 1958), politician (CDU) and judge ; Dietmar Bär (born 1961), actor ; Stefan Heinig (born 1962), director and shareholder ; Martin Zawieja (born 1963), weightlifter ; Ralf Husmann (born 1964), writer, producer and author ; Vincent Mennie (born 1964), Scottish footballer ; Matthias Kohring (born 1965), media and communications scientist ; André Erkau (born 1968), director and screenwriter ; Florian Schwarthoff (born 1968), hurdler, bronze medallist in 110m hurdles at the 1996 Olympic Games ; Yasemin Şamdereli (born 1973), film director and screenwriter ; Kevin Grosskreutz (born 1988), football player ; Marco Reus (born 1989), football player
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] Niese  Niese is a surname, and may refer to:
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] Josef Jarno  Josef Jarno (born 24 August 1866 in Pest, died 11 January 1932 in Vienna) was an Austrian actor and theatre director. He was the older brother of opera composer Georg Jarno.
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] List of Austrian film actors  This article lists notable Austrian actors.  Actors who were active in more than one era are listed only in that era in which they started their acting career.
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] Ingo Niermann Ingo Niermann (born 1969, Bielefeld, Germany) is a German novelist, writer, and artist. Niermann was born in Bielefeld and studied philosophy in Berlin. He has lived in Berlin, to the eastern part of which he allegedly moved in late 1989. Niermann lived in New York between 2013–14, before moving to Basil, Switzerland, where he is currently based. Although mostly known for his book releases (see below), Niermann earlier contributed to German newspapers Sueddeutsche Zeitung and Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. He has also conducted interviews for German literary magazine "Der Freund" and contributed a series of interviews labelled "Die Beste
In what city was Hansi Niese born? [SEP] went with her mother, then a widow, to Plön and began publishing her writings, at first under the masculine pseudonym "Lucian Bürger". In 1884, Niese settled in the city of Altona, where her mother used to live, and in 1888 she moved to Ottensen, which in 1889 became a part of Altona. She no longer needed to work as a teacher, as she had become one of the best known Holstein regional writers. In her work, Niese campaigned not only for the improvement of educational and employment opportunities for women, but also managed the local section of the North German
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP]  Raimonds Vilde (born August 19, 1962) is a former Latvian volleyball player who competed in the 1988 Summer Olympics. He was born in Riga. In 1988 he was part of the Soviet team which won the silver medal in the Olympic tournament. He played six matches. Currently coaching Latvian Men's National Volleyball Team. Received a prize "Example in Sport" during Latvian Yearly Sports Awards ceremony in December, 2012.
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP] Raimonds Bergmanis (born 1966), Latvian weightlifting champion, strongman and Olympic competitor ; Raimonds Dambis (born 1924), Latvian footballer and football manager ; Raimonds Karnītis (1929–1999), Latvian basketball player and coach ; Raimonds Laizāns (born 1964), Latvian football goalkeeper ; Raimonds Miglinieks (born 1970), Latvian professional basketball player ; Raimonds Pauls (born 1936), Latvian composer and pianist ; Raimonds Staprans (born 1926), Latvian playwright ; Raimonds Vaikulis (born 1980), Latvian professional basketball guard ; Raimonds Vējonis (born 1966), Latvian politician ; Raimonds Vilde (born 1962), Latvian volleyball player and Olympic competitor ; Raimonds Vilkoits (born 1990), Latvian professional ice hockey player Raimonds is a Latvian masculine given name and may refer to:
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP]  Ričmonds Vilde (born July 5, 1990) is a Latvian retired professional basketball player, who played the center/power forward position. Currently, he owns multiple successful businesses in the United States. He has previously represented Latvia in the U16, U18 and U20 European Championships. After high school Ricmonds Vilde moved to United States and joined SMU to play at NCAA level. During his red shirt year, Vilde started to practice American football and was offered a place in an American football team. Vilde decided to stay with basketball. In the summer of 2015 for the first time in his career Vilde was included in the Latvian National team's candidate list. However, he was one of the last players who did not make the team for EuroBasket 2015. Later he signed his first pro contract with Latvian champions VEF Rīga. Ricmonds Vilde's father is a famous Latvian volleyball player Raimonds Vilde who now is the head coach of Latvian Men's Volleyball National Team.
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP]  Ojārs Raimonds Pauls (born 12 January 1936 in Iļģuciems, Riga, Latvia) is a Latvian composer and piano player who is well known in Latvia, Russia, post-Soviet countries and worldwide. He was the Minister of Culture of Latvia from 1988 to 1993.
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP]  Raimond Kolk (8 February 1924 Saru Parish, Võru County – 3 November 1992 Stockholm) was an Estonian writer and critic. From 1942 to 1943 he studied at the Teachers' Seminary of the University of Tartu. In 1944, he fled to Finland because of German mobilization. In 1944, he moved to Sweden. From 1958 to 1963 he studied at Stockholm University, taking courses in political science, national economy and statistics. In 1963 he graduated from the university as a candidate in philosophy. From 1972 to 1989 he worked as the economic director of the Swedish Food Administration in Uppsala. He did collaboration with several Estonian publications in exile, e.g. political journal Radikaaldemokraat, cultural journal Sõna, journal Tulimuld, newspaper Teataja. He died in 1992. He is buried in Lidingö Cemetery.
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP] Raimonds Vilde  Raimonds Vilde (born August 19, 1962) is a former Latvian volleyball player who competed in the 1988 Summer Olympics.  He was born in Riga.  In 1988 he was part of the Soviet team which won the silver medal in the Olympic tournament. He played six matches.  Currently coaching Latvian Men's National Volleyball Team. Received a prize "Example in Sport" during Latvian Yearly Sports Awards ceremony in December, 2012.
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP]
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP] Raimonds  Raimonds is a Latvian masculine given name and may refer to:
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP] Vilde  Vilde is both a surname and a feminine given name. Notable people with the name include:
In what city was Raimonds Vilde born? [SEP] List of Estonians  This is a list of notable Estonians.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]  Nay Win was born on 25 April 1987 in Kyauk Myaung, Yangon, Myanmar. His father is a painter. He is the second son of four siblings, having an elder brother, a younger sister and a younger brother. He graduated high school from Basic Education High School No. 1 Dagon.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]  Nay Myo Thant (နေမျိုးသန့်; จำรัส ทัศนละวาด) is a Burmese writer. His books include two volumes of short stories published in 1993 and 1997. Nay Myo Thant won first prize in the collected short stories genre in the Sarpay Beikman Manuscript Awards for 2000. He won third prize for 2006 Collected short stories in the Pakokku U Ohn Pe literary award. He won first prize in the novel genre of the Sarpay Beikman awards for 2008. He also won third prize for short stories in the Pakokku U Ohn Pe literary award for 2008. He won first prize in the youth literature genre of the Sarpay Beikman awards for 2009.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]  Htun Naung Sint was born on 14 June 1997 in Mohnyin, Kachin State, Myanmar to ethnic Shan parents. He studied at the Mandalay University of Foreign Languages, majoring in French in his third year.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]  Myo Min was born on 7 April 1910 in Rangoon (Yangon) to Saw Nu and her husband Po Min, a senior civil servant in the British colonial administration. He was the youngest of four children. In his youth, his family constantly moved around the Irrawaddy delta, following the postings of the father, who would later retire as a Deputy Commissioner. Myo Min attended primary school in Hlegu, Rangoon, Kyaiklat, Myaungmya and Ma-ubin. From 5th Standard onward, he attended Rangoon's elite St. John's High School, and passed the university entrance examination with honors in five subjects in 1926. He enrolled in Rangoon University, where he was a classmate of U Thant, and graduated in 1931 with a BA in English with
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]  Nay Min was born on 6 August 1983 in Thet Ka La Village, Bago, Bago Region, Myanmar. He attended at Thet Ka La high school.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP] Nay Myo Thant  Nay Myo Thant (; จำรัส ทัศนละวาด) is a Burmese writer. His books include two volumes of short stories published in 1993 and 1997.  Nay Myo Thant won first prize in the collected short stories genre in the Sarpay Beikman Manuscript Awards for 2000. He won third prize for 2006 Collected short stories in the Pakokku U Ohn Pe literary award. He won first prize in the novel genre of the Sarpay Beikman awards for 2008. He also won third prize for short stories in the Pakokku U Ohn Pe literary award for 2008. He won first prize in the youth literature genre of the Sarpay Beikman awards for 2009.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP] Thaitanium  Thaitanium () is a Thai American hip hop music group. Among the first of Thai rap artists, the group formed in 2000 by K.H. - Khanngoen "Khan" Nuanual, P. Cess - Prinya "Way" Intachai, Sunny Day - Nay Mayo "Day" Thot.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP] Nay (name)  Nay is a surname and sometimes given name. Most notable people include:
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP] Daboyway  Prinya Intachai , better known as Daboyway is an American-born Thai rapper, songwriter, producer and actor. He gained recognition through the early days formation of ‘Thaitanium’ with his two friends Khanngoen "Khan" Nuanual and Nay Myo "Day" Thant back in 2000. Today, the group remains the biggest selling Hip Hop act in Thailand and South East Asia.  Over the past couple of years, Daboyway has been establishing himself as a solo artist. In 2016, he released “Yeah Yeah Yeah”, an English single which received 21m views on YouTube and 6 million streams.
In what city was Nay Myo Thant born? [SEP]
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]  Aarno Henrik Maliniemi (surname until 1930 Malin; 9 May 1892 &ndash; 8 October 1972) was a Finnish historian, professor in church history at Helsinki University 1945–1960. Maliniemi was an expert on the medieval church. He studied early Finnish literature, and was editor of a number of publications and bibliographies. Maliniemi was born in Oulu. He was awarded a doctor honoris causa by University of Uppsala in 1952 and by University of St Andrews in 1960. He died in Helsinki, aged 80.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]  Malinen was born in Oulu. He was coming to the end of his short career as a football player in 1978 when he decided to enroll as a student at the University of Oulu Department of Education. He started his career as a teacher just before he would have graduated, and thus didn't complete his studies. While working as a teacher he found himself yearning for a job where he could see more concretely the impact of his work. He soon became interested in football coaching. In 1986 Malinen found a job at Kastelli Sports Gymnasium (secondary education) as the school's football coach. Among his students at Kastelli were Antti Niemi and Mika Nurmela who went on to become Finnish internationals. Ville Nylund and Aarno Turpeinen, who later became core players of top team in Finland, HJK Helsinki, were
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]  Born in New York City to Finnish parents, he lived with them in a housing cooperative in a Jewish neighborhood in the Bronx. Koponen attended the High School of Music & Art in New York City.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]  Leikola was born in Jyväskylä in 1979 and lived his childhood in Kuohu, a small town near Jyväskylä. Prior to a career in stand-up comedy, Leikola studied at the University of Jyväskylä with physics as main as subject and philosophy as secondary.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]  Maria Kalaniemi (born May 27, 1964 in Espoo, Finland) is a Finnish accordionist. She was classically trained, gaining her MMus from the Sibelius Academy in 1992, but has become mostly known as a folk musician having played this music from childhood, besides her classical music studies, and also at the folk music department of the Sibelius Academy.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP] Aarno Maliniemi  Aarno Henrik Maliniemi (surname until 1930 "Malin"; 9 May 1892 – 8 October 1972) was a Finnish historian, professor in church history at Helsinki University 1945–1960.  Maliniemi was an expert on the medieval church. He studied early Finnish literature, and was editor of a number of publications and bibliographies.  Maliniemi was born in Oulu. He was awarded a "doctor honoris causa" by University of Uppsala in 1952 and by University of St Andrews in 1960. He died in Helsinki, aged 80.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP] Floris and Blancheflour  Floris and Blancheflour is the name of a popular romantic story that was told in the Middle Ages in many different vernacular languages and versions. It first appears in Europe around 1160 in "aristocratic" French. Roughly between the period 1200 and 1350 it was one of the most popular of all the romantic plots.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP] 1938 Nobel Prize in Literature  The 1938 Nobel Prize in Literature was the distinguished literary prize that was awarded to the American author Pearl S. Buck (1892–1973) "for her rich and truly epic descriptions of peasant life in China and for her biographical masterpieces."  Buck was the first female American to be awarded the Nobel Prize and the third American recipient following Eugene O'Neill in 1936 and Sinclair Lewis in 1930. She was also the fourth woman to receive the prize.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP] Ella Kivikoski  Ella Margareta Kivikoski (25 May 1901 in Tammela – 27 July 1990) was the first Finnish female to earn a doctorate in archaeology in Finland. She was a Professor of Archaeology at the University of Helsinki from 1948 until 1969, specializing in both Finnish and Nordic archaeology. Her specialty was the Finnish Iron Age.
In what city was Aarno Maliniemi born? [SEP]
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP]  Charles George Plumer (1837 &ndash; 18 March 1914) was an English cricketer. Plumer's batting style is unknown. He was born at Canons Park, Middlesex, and was educated at both Harrow and Haileybury. Plumer made his first-class debut for the Marylebone Cricket Club against Sussex in 1860 at The Dripping Pan, Lewes. He was dismissed for a duck twice in this match, firstly by Henry Stubberfield and secondly by George Wells. He later made a second first-class appearance for Sussex against the Marylebone Cricket Club at the Royal Brunswick Ground, Hove in 1863. He again failed with the bat in this match, with Plumer twice being dismissed for a duck, both times by James Grundy. On the 1911 census Charles George Plumer is living in Cheltenham with his wife Kate Elizabeth née Marshall whom he married in 1875 at Fort St. George, Madras, India. He describes his occupation as a retired civil servant (chief magistrate) at Mysore, Madras, India. His son Charles George Marshall Plumer (born in 1878, India) was an officer in the British Army and also a cricketer. Charles George Plumer died at Cheltenham, Gloucestershire on 18 March 1914.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP]  Bradbury Greenleaf "B. G" Plumer (May 22, 1830 &ndash; July 22, 1886) was an American businessman, farmer, and politician. Born in Epping, New Hampshire, Plumer took part in the California Gold Rush. He then moved to Saint Louis, Missouri. In 1854, Plumer moved to Wausau, Wisconsin and was involved in the lumber business. Plumer also farmed and raised cattle. In 1866, Plumer served in the Wisconsin State Assembly. His brother was Daniel L. Plumer, who also served in the Wisconsin State Assembly. He committed suicide with a firearm in Wausau, Wisconsin.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP]  Charles Plumet (17 May 1861 – 15 April 1928) was a French architect, decorator and ceramist.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP]  Plumer was born in Newburyport, Province of Massachusetts Bay on June 25, 1759, the son of farmer and merchant Samuel Plumer and Mary (Dole) Plumer. His family moved to Epping, New Hampshire in 1768, and he was raised at his father's farm on Epping's Red Oak Hill. Plumer attended the Red Oak Hill School until he was 17. Frequent ill health left him unsuited for military service during the American Revolution or life as a farmer, and after a religious conversion experience in his late teens, Plumer was trained as a Baptist exhorter (a lay preacher). For several years he traveled throughout the state to deliver sermons to Baptist churches and revival meetings. He briefly considered a career as a doctor, and began to study medicine. Later deciding on a legal career, he studied law with attorneys Joshua Atherton of Amherst and John Prentice of Londonderry. While studying under Atherton, his fellow law clerks included William Coleman, who remained a lifelong friend. Plumer attained admission to the bar in 1787, and began to practice in Epping.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP]  William S. Plumer was born to William and Catharine Plumer (née McAlester) in Greersburg, present day Darlington, Pennsylvania, on July 26, 1802. He graduated from Washington College (now Washington and Lee University in Virginia) in 1825, received his religious education at Princeton Theological Seminary in New Jersey, and was ordained in the Presbyterian Church. He was licensed in the Presbytery of New Brunswick, a Presbytery in New Jersey, as a clergyman in 1826, and the state's Orange Presbytery ordained him as an evangelist in 1827.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP] Charles Plumer  Charles George Plumer (1837 – 18 March 1914) was an English cricketer. Plumer's batting style is unknown. He was born at Canons Park, Middlesex, and was educated at both Harrow and Haileybury.  Plumer made his first-class debut for the Marylebone Cricket Club against Sussex in 1860 at The Dripping Pan, Lewes. He was dismissed for a duck twice in this match, firstly by Henry Stubberfield and secondly by George Wells. He later made a second first-class appearance for Sussex against the Marylebone Cricket Club at the Royal Brunswick Ground, Hove in 1863. He again failed with the bat in this match, with Plumer twice being dismissed for a duck, both times by James Grundy.  On the 1911 census Charles George Plumer is living in Cheltenham with his wife Kate Elizabeth née Marshall whom he married in 1875 at Fort St. George, Madras, India. He describes his occupation as a retired civil servant (chief magistrate) at Mysore, Madras, India. His son Charles George Marshall Plumer (born in 1878, India) was an officer in the British Army and also a cricketer.  Charles George Plumer died at Cheltenham, Gloucestershire on 18 March 1914.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP] Herbert Plumer, 1st Viscount Plumer  Field Marshal Herbert Charles Onslow Plumer, 1st Viscount Plumer, (13 March 1857 – 16 July 1932) was a senior British Army officer of the First World War. After commanding V Corps at the Second Battle of Ypres in April 1915, he took command of the Second Army in May 1915 and in June 1917 won an overwhelming victory over the German Army at the Battle of Messines, which started with the simultaneous explosion of a series of mines placed by the Royal Engineers' tunnelling companies beneath German lines, which created large craters and was described as the "loudest explosion in human history". He later served as Commander-in-Chief of the British Army of the Rhine and then as Governor of Malta before becoming High Commissioner of the British Mandate for Palestine in 1925 and retiring in 1928.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP] Charles Plummer (sheriff)  Charles Plummer (1930–2018) was the 21st Sheriff of Alameda County, California from 1987 to 2007. He worked in law enforcement for 54 years prior to his death.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP] Charles W. Plummer  Charles Warner Plummer (1890–1918) was a military aviator in the U.S. Army Air Service. Plummer defended the 88th Aero Squadron's aerial reconnaissance mission to photograph the Vesle River sector of France during World War I.
In what city was Charles Plumer born? [SEP] Charlie Plummer  Charlie Faulkner Plummer is an American actor. Plummer began his career as a child actor in short films before appearing on the television dramas "Boardwalk Empire" and "Granite Flats."<ref name="May2015Shockya" /><ref name=":0" /> In 2019, he starred in the Hulu miniseries "Looking for Alaska" as Miles "Pudge" Halter and received critical acclaim. In 2022, he starred as young Franklin D. Roosevelt in the Showtime series "The First Lady".  He made his feature film debut in David Chase's drama "Not Fade Away" (2012) before landing the lead role in Felix Thompson's directorial debut "King Jack" (2015). and his lead role in Andrew Haigh's drama "Lean on Pete". His performance in the latter garnered critical praise and earned him the Marcello Mastroianni Award for best emerging actor at the 74th Venice Film Festival.
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP]  Moon Jun-won was born in Seoul, South Korea. He studied at Kaywon High School of Arts and continued his education on Theatre and Arts in Sungkyunkwan University. In 2013, Joo Won announced that he would be furthering his studies at Konkuk University.
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP]  Joo Won (born Moon Jun-won on September 30, 1987) is a South Korean actor best known for his roles in King of Baking, Kim Takgu (2010), Ojakgyo Family (2011), Bridal Mask (2012), Good Doctor (2013), Fatal Intuition (2015), Yong-pal (2015), My Sassy Girl (2017) and Alice (2020).
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP]  Moon Deoksu was born December 8, 1928 in Haman South Gyeongsang Province, Korea. Moon graduated from Hongik University, attended Tsukuba University, and graduate school at Korea University, resulting in a Ph.D. in Literature. He worked for the Magazine, Shidan and served in many organizations including as President of the Poetry Second of the Korean LIterature Association; President of the Modern Poet's Association; Vice Director of the Korean Literature Association; Director, Vice President, and President of the Korean branch of P.E.N.; Representative of the Korean Committee for the International Poets' Union, and as President of the Korean Culture and Arts Foundation. Moon also taught at Jeju and Hongik University, and served as a Dean of the College of Education at the latter.
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP]  Hyo Jin Moon (December 3, 1962 – March 17, 2008) was a musician, performer, and recording facility executive and the eldest son of Unification Church founder Sun Myung Moon and his wife Hak Ja Han Moon. He was born in South Korea and grew up in the United States in New York State. He served as first president of the World Collegiate Association for the Research of Principles. For ten years Moon was head of the Unification Church-owned Manhattan Center Studios recording facility in New York City. He served as worldwide president of the student branch of Unificationism, World CARP (Collegiate Association for the Research of Principles). On March 17, 2008, Moon died of a heart attack at the Moon family home in Hannam-dong in Seoul, South Korea. FFWPU North American Headquarters announced that his Seung-hwa (ascension) ceremony was held on March 19, 2008 at Cheongpyeong Heaven and Earth Training Center, and The Wonjeon (burial) ceremony was held at Paju Wonjeon later that day.
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP]  Moon In-soo was born in June 1945 in Seongju County, North Gyeongsang Province. He studied Korean literature at Dongguk University but dropped out. Moon began his literary career in 1985 when he published Neungsubeodeul (능수버들 A Weeping Willow) in Shimsang. He has published several poetry collections. Moon won the 14th Daegu Literary Award in 1996, the 11th Kim Daljin Literary Prize in 2000, the 3rd Nojak Literature Prize in 2003, the 11th Poetry and Poetics Award in 2006, the 17th Pyeon-un Literature Award in 2007, and the 10th Korea Catholic Literature Award for Poetry in 2007, as well as the Midang Literary Award in the same year. Ra Heeduk has said that Moon In-soo's poetry is "an earnest prayer from the bottom, and a beautiful dedication to the air above."
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP] Joo Won  Joo Won (; born Moon Jun-won on September 30, 1987) is a South Korean actor best known for his roles in "King of Baking, Kim Takgu" (2010), "Ojakgyo Family" (2011), "Bridal Mask" (2012), "Good Doctor" (2013), "Fatal Intuition" (2015), "Yong-pal" (2015), "My Sassy Girl" (2017), and "Alice "(2020).
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP] Moon Joo-won  Moon Joo-Won (born May 8, 1983) is a South Korean football player. He currently plays for Gyeongnam FC
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP] Moon Chae-won  Moon Chae-won (; born November 13, 1986) is a South Korean actress. Moon first attracted attention in 2008 in her supporting role as a gisaeng in "Painter of the Wind". She was next cast in "Brilliant Legacy", one of the top-rated Korean dramas of 2009. 2011 marked Moon's career breakthrough, with leading roles in the television period drama "The Princess' Man" and the action blockbuster "War of the Arrows"; both were critical and commercial hits. For her performance in the latter, Moon won Best New Actress at the Grand Bell Awards and the Blue Dragon Film Awards. Moon's other notable television series include the revenge melodrama "The Innocent Man" (2012), the medical drama "Good Doctor" (2013), and the thriller melodrama "Flower of Evil" (2020).
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP] Joo-won  Joo-won is a Korean unisex given name. Its meaning differs based on the hanja used to write each syllable of the name. There are 56 hanja with the reading ""joo"" and 35 hanja with the reading ""won"" on the South Korean government's official list of hanja which may be registered for use in given names. It was the second-most popular name for newborn boys in South Korea in 2011, and came in fifth place in 2015.  People with this name include:
In what city was Moon Joo-won born? [SEP] Alice (South Korean TV series)  Alice () is a South Korean television series starring Kim Hee-sun and Joo Won. It aired on SBS from August 28 to October 24, 2020, every Friday and Saturday at 22:00 (KST). It is described as "a human sci-fi drama about a magical time travel of a woman who resembles a dead woman and a man who lost his emotions". It was made available on Netflix.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP]  Leobardo Soto Martínez (born 18 January 1971) is a Mexican politician from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. From 2009 to 2012 he served as Deputy of the LXI Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Puebla.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP]  Leobardo Perez Jimenez (born September 22, 1945) is a Colombian abstract and figurative artist. He is a painter and sculptor.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP]  Antonio Soto was born on 8 October 1897 in the Galician village of Ferrol (A Coruña) to Antonio Soto and Concepción Canalejo. He arrived in Buenos Aires when he was 13 years old. Fatherless, he began a life of misery and privation in Argentina. Soto was unable to complete much of primary school. He worked in a diverse variety of jobs, suffering exploitation and punishments. Ever since he was a boy, he was attracted to anarchist ideas, particularly those of the syndicalists. In 1914, when Soto was 17 years old, Soto refused to join the Spanish militia to go and fight Morocco. In 1919 he embarked with the theater company Serrano-Mendoza, which visited the different Patagonic ports in Argentina and Chile. In January 1920, a popular rebellion broke out in Trelew, Chubut. It began with a strike by commercial employees which grew in support by most of the population against the governor, the police, and the large traders. Soto arrived and began to agitate and support the striking workers, which lead to his arrest and expulsion from Chubut. Soon after he arrived in Río Gallegos, where the militant labor climate that reigned in the city attracted him.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP]  Soto was born in 1932 in Omaja, a small town founded by American immigrants in the province of Oriente, Cuba. The son of Juan Aurelio Soto Vega and María de Los Angeles Almaguer Mayo, Soto spent his childhood in his hometown until 1938 when he moved with his family to a small town named San Agustín, where his father was head of the Army post. He received his primary education in San Agustín's public school. In 1945 he won a scholarship to study in a rural training school in Victoria de las Tunas, a city 30 miles from home. After a year
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP]  Soto was born in Carlsbad, California, and is of Chilean and Mexican descent.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP] Leobardo Soto  Leobardo Soto Martínez (born 18 January 1971) is a Mexican politician from the Institutional Revolutionary Party. From 2009 to 2012 he served as Deputy of the LXI Legislature of the Mexican Congress representing Puebla.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP] Leonardo Flores (footballer, born 1995)  Leonardo José Flores Soto (born 5 August 1995) is a Venezuelan professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Patriotas.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP] Hernando de Soto  Hernando de Soto (; ; 1500 – 21 May, 1542) was a Spanish explorer and "conquistador" who was involved in expeditions in Nicaragua and the Yucatan Peninsula. He played an important role in Francisco Pizarro's conquest of the Inca Empire in Peru, but is best known for leading the first European expedition deep into the territory of the modern-day United States (through Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Mississippi, and most likely Arkansas). He is the first European documented as having crossed the Mississippi River.<ref name=Morison1974 />  De Soto's North American expedition was a vast undertaking. It ranged throughout what is now the southeastern United States, both searching for gold, which had been reported by various Native American tribes and earlier coastal explorers, and for a passage to China or the Pacific coast. De Soto died in 1542 on the banks of the Mississippi River; different sources disagree on the exact location, whether it was what is now Lake Village, Arkansas, or Ferriday, Louisiana.
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP] Ricardo Soto  Ricardo Andrés Soto Pedraza (born 20 October 1999) is a Chilean recurve archer from Concepción. In 2009, he moved to Arica. He competed in the archery event at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro.<ref name=:1/>
In what city was Leobardo Soto born? [SEP] Kevin Avila Soto  Kevin Avila Soto (born 22 December 1992 in Santa Catarina Pinula) is a Guatemalan swimmer. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed in the Men's 100 metre freestyle, finishing in 37th place overall in the heats, failing to qualify for the semifinals. Soto also competed in the 100 m event at the 2013 World Aquatics Championships. He swims for the Guatemalan club named "Club Delfines de Natación" and his coach is Morgan Armando Sanchez.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP]  Inada was born in Tottori Prefecture in August 1896. He graduated from the 29th class of the Imperial Japanese Army Academy in 1917, where he specialized in artillery. He went on to graduate from the 37th class of the Army Staff College with honors in 1925.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP]  Inada was born in Nagoya and he graduated from Tokyo Imperial University in medicine before travelling abroad for medical studies in Germany.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP]  Masaru Inada (稲田 勝) is a Japanese skeleton racer who has competed since 1997. He finished 18th in the men's skeleton event at both the 2002 and 2006 Winter Olympics. Inada's best finish at the FIBT World Championships was 11th in Nagano in 2003. He is a graduate of Sendai University.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP]  Born in Tokyo, Japan, he grew up in the Ikebukuro district. In 1997, he graduated first in his class at the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music, then went on to gain a master's degree in fine arts in 2004 from Chelsea College of Art and Design in London, England. Since then he has lived and worked in London. His art blends the delicate and the grotesque, juxtaposing photographic fragments, line art and painting to produce complex abstract works. His work is inspired by the uneasy lack of harmony between tradition and modernity in the fast-paced, constantly changing urban
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP]  Inada Syūichi (稲田 周一) (February 26, 1902 – February 5, 1973) was a Japanese Home Ministry government official and politician. He was born in Niigata Prefecture. He was a graduate of the University of Tokyo. He was governor of Shiga Prefecture (1945–1946). He was Grand Chamberlain of Japan (1965–1969).
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP] Masaru Inada  He is a graduate of Sendai University.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP] Masaru
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP] Inada  Inada is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP] Japan at the 2006 Winter Olympics  Japan competed at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, Italy. Shizuka Arakawa won the country's only medal, a gold, in women's figure skating. She was the first person born and raised in Asia to become an Olympic champion in that event. Athletes representing Japan participated in all but one of the 2006 Olympics' 15 sports, with Ice hockey the only exception.
In what city was Masaru Inada born? [SEP] Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters  The are a Japanese professional baseball team based in Kitahiroshima, Hokkaidō. They compete in the Pacific League of Nippon Professional Baseball, playing the majority of their home games at ES CON Field Hokkaido. The Fighters also host a select number of regional home games in cities across Hokkaidō, including Hakodate, Asahikawa, Kushiro, and Obihiro. The team's name comes from its parent organization, Nippon Ham, a major Japanese food-processing company.  Founded in 1946, the Fighters called Tokyo home for 58 years, as co-tenants of the Tokyo Dome & Korakuen Stadium with the Central League's Yomiuri Giants near the end of their tenure in the capital city. The franchise has won three Japan Series titles, in 1962, 2006, and, most recently, 2016.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP]  Philippe Petit (born 13 August 1949) is a French high-wire artist who gained fame for his unauthorized high-wire walks between the towers of Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris in 1971 and of Sydney Harbour Bridge in 1973, as well as between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City on the morning of 7 August 1974. For his unauthorized feat 400 m above the ground – which he referred to as "le coup" – he rigged a 200 kg cable and used a custom-made 8 m long, 25 kg balancing pole. He performed for 45 minutes, making eight passes along the wire. Since then, Petit has lived in New York, where he has been artist-in-residence at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, also a location of other aerial performances. He has done wire
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP]  Pierre Petit (1617–1687) was a French scholar, physician, poet and Latin writer. Born at Paris, Petit studied medicine at Montpellier, where he took the degree of MD, though he did not practice medicine afterwards. Returning to Paris, he resided for some time with the president Lamoignon, as tutor to his sons, and afterwards as a literary companion with Aymar de Nicolai, first president of the chamber of accounts. He died shortly after taking a wife.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP]  Pierre Petit (8 December 1594 – 20 August 1677) was a French astronomer, physicist, mathematician and instrument maker. Petit was born in Montluçon. He succeeded his father in his municipal office (Contrôleur de l'élection), but went to Paris in 1633 to dedicate himself to the sciences. He was a member of the circle around Marin Mersenne, and knew Etienne Pascal, Blaise Pascal, and René Descartes. Later he was a member of the Academy of Montmor. On 4 April 1667 he became a fellow of The Royal Society. He also served as a military engineer and geographer to Louis XIII and Louis XIV, in roles such as Superintendent of Fortifications. He died in Lagny-sur-Marne in 1677.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] in Chalon-sur-Saône ; Musée d'Orsay in Paris ; National Library of France in Paris ; National Portrait Gallery, London Museums that hold large collections of his photographs:
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP]  Petit was born in Dieppe, Seine-Maritime.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] Pierre Petit (racing driver)  Pierre Petit (born 27 September 1957 in Guéret) is a French racing driver. In 1982 he won the French Formula Three Championship. In 1995 he finished third at 24 Hours of Le Mans in the LMP2 class.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] Philippe Petit  Philippe Petit (; born 13 August 1949) is a French high-wire artist who gained fame for his unauthorized high-wire walks between the towers of Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris in 1971 and of Sydney Harbour Bridge in 1973, as well as between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City on the morning of 7 August 1974. For his unauthorized feat above the ground – which he referred to as "le coup"<ref name='manonwire' /> – he rigged a cable and used a custom-made long, balancing pole. He performed for 45 minutes, making eight passes along the wire.  Since then, Petit has lived in New York, where he has been artist-in-residence at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, also a location of other aerial performances. He has done wire walking as part of official celebrations in New York, across the United States, and in France and other countries, as well as teaching workshops on the art. In 2008, "Man on Wire", a documentary directed by James Marsh about Petit's walk between the towers, won numerous awards. He was also the subject of a children's book and an animated adaptation of it, released in 2005. "The Walk", a film based on Petit's walk, was released in September 2015, starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Petit and directed by Robert Zemeckis.  He also became adept at equestrianism, juggling, fencing, carpentry, rock-climbing, and bullfighting. Spurning circuses and their formulaic performances, he created his street persona on the sidewalks of Paris. In the early 1970s, he visited New York City, where he frequently juggled and worked on a slackline in Washington Square Park.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] Pierre Petit (engineer)  Pierre Petit (8 December 1594 – 20 August 1677) was a French astronomer, physicist, mathematician and instrument maker. Petit was born in Montluçon. He succeeded his father in his municipal office ("Contrôleur de l'élection"), but went to Paris in 1633 to dedicate himself to the sciences. He was a member of the circle around Marin Mersenne, and knew Etienne Pascal, Blaise Pascal, and René Descartes. Later he was a member of the academy of Montmor. On 4 April 1667 he became a fellow of The Royal Society.  He also served as a military engineer and geographer to Louis XIII and Louis XIV, in roles such as Superintendent of Fortifications.  He died in Lagny-sur-Marne in 1677.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] Pierre Petit (scholar)  Pierre Petit (; 1617–1687) was a French scholar, physician, poet and Latin writer.  Born at Paris, Petit studied medicine at Montpellier, where he took the degree of MD, though he did not practice medicine afterwards. Returning to Paris, he resided for some time with the president Lamoignon, as tutor to his sons, and afterwards as a literary companion with Aymar de Nicolai, first president of the chamber of accounts. He died shortly after taking a wife.
In what city was Pierre Petit born? [SEP] Pierre Petit (composer)  Pierre Petit (21 April 1922 – 1 July 2000) was a French composer.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP]  William "Billy" Carlson was born 1864 in Sweden. He immigrated to the U.S. by 1870 and grew up in San Francisco. Carlson, a fast-talker, would later often deny he was an immigrant. By 1885 he had moved to San Diego. On October 3, 1887 Carlson married Carmen Ferrer, of the wealthy Estudillo family.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP]  Billy Carlson (17 October 1889 San Diego, California &ndash; 4 July 1915 Tacoma, Washington) was an American racecar driver. He was killed in an AAA National Championship race at Tacoma Speedway.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP]  William H. "Billy" Carlson (April 11, 1864&ndash;July 7, 1937) was an American land developer and Independent politician from California. He served in the state legislature and served two terms as Mayor of San Diego. He was the first developer of the San Diego neighborhood of Ocean Beach.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP]  Born in the small South Dakota city of Mitchell, Carlson earned both a BFA and an MA from the University of South Dakota, which he attended in the 1950s and began his acting career performing in several stage plays in both the U.S and England.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP]  Edward William Carlson (May 4, 1883 – July 26, 1932) was an American miniature portraitist. His parents were Swedish immigrants Minnie and John. Carlson spent most of his childhood in Chicago, Illinois where his parents owned and operated the Englewood Home Laundry. At four years of age circa 1887 Carlson fell ill with scarlet fever, and as a result, lost both his hearing and eventually his speech. Carlson was one of eight siblings though two died young. His remaining brothers and sisters, of whom he was the oldest, were Enoch, Amanda, Esther, Arvid and John. Circa 1900 the Carlson family moved near Grovertown, Indiana where they bought or leased a farm near those of his mother's brothers. At this time Edward Carlson's occupation is a farmhand. He was seventeen years old.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP] Billy Carlson  Billy Carlson (17 October 1889 San Diego, California – 4 July 1915 Tacoma, Washington) was an American racecar driver. He was killed in an AAA National Championship race at Tacoma Speedway.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP] William H. Carlson  William H. "Billy" Carlson (April 11, 1864–July 7, 1937) was an American land developer and Independent politician from California. He served in the state legislature and served two terms as Mayor of San Diego. He was the first developer of the San Diego neighborhood of Ocean Beach.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP] Ocean Beach, San Diego  Ocean Beach (also known as O.B.) is a beachfront neighborhood of San Diego, California.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP] Bill Carlson  Bill Carlson (November 26, 1934 – February 29, 2008), born William Meyer Carlson, was an American journalist and longtime television anchor at WCCO in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Carlson was born in Thief River Falls, Minnesota and grew up in St. Paul, Minnesota. Carlson died of prostate cancer at the age of 73 on February 29, 2008.
In what city was Billy Carlson born? [SEP] Ben Carson  Benjamin Solomon Carson Sr. (born September 18, 1951) is an American retired neurosurgeon and politician who served as the 17th United States Secretary of Housing and Urban Development from 2017 to 2021. A pioneer in the field of neurosurgery, he was a candidate for President of the United States in the 2016 Republican primaries.  Carson became the director of pediatric neurosurgery at the Johns Hopkins Children's Center in 1984 at age 33, then the youngest chief of pediatric neurosurgery in the United States. In 1987, he gained significant fame after leading a team of surgeons in the first known separation of conjoined twins joined at the back of the head. Although surgically a success, the twins continued to experience neurologic/medical complications. His additional accomplishments include performing the first successful neurosurgical procedure on a fetus inside the womb, developing new methods to treat brain-stem tumors, and revitalizing hemispherectomy techniques for controlling seizures. He wrote over 100 neurosurgical publications. He retired from medicine in 2013; at the time, he was professor of neurosurgery, oncology, plastic surgery, and pediatrics at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.  Carson gained national fame among political conservatives after delivering a speech at the 2013 National Prayer Breakfast which was perceived as critical of the policies of President Barack Obama. Following widespread speculation of a presidential run, Carson officially announced his campaign for the 2016 Republican nomination for President in May 2015. Carson performed strongly in early polls, leading to his being considered a frontrunner for the nomination during the fall of 2015. He withdrew from the race after Super Tuesday, following a string of disappointing primary results, and endorsed Donald Trump. Following Trump's victory, Trump nominated Carson as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, being confirmed by the United States Senate in a 58–41 vote on March 2, 2017.  Carson has received numerous honors for his neurosurgery work, including more than 60 honorary doctorate degrees and numerous national merit citations. In 2001, he was named by CNN and "Time" magazine as one of the nation's 20 foremost physicians and scientists and was selected by the Library of Congress as one of 89 "Living Legends" on its 200th anniversary. In 2010, he was elected into the National Academy of Medicine. He was the subject of the 2009 TV film "", wherein he was portrayed by Cuba Gooding Jr. Carson has also written or co-written six bestselling books.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP]  Abraham Raimbach (16 February 1776 in London – 17 January 1843), was an English engraver of Swiss descent. He was born in Cecil Court in the West End of London. Educated at Archbishop Tenison's Library School, he was apprenticed to the engraver J. Hall from 1789 to 1796. For nine years, part of his working-time was devoted to the study of drawing in the Royal Academy and to carrying out occasional engravings for the booksellers, whilst his leisure hours were employed in painting portraits in miniature. Having formed an intimacy with Sir David Wilkie, Raimbach in 1812 began to engrave some of Wilkie's best pictures. At his death, he held a gold medal awarded for his Village Politicians at the Paris Exhibition of 1814. He was elected corresponding member of the Académie des Beaux-Arts in 1835. He is buried in St Mary's Churchyard, Hendon.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP]  Abraham Samuel Bacharach was a Rabbi, born about 1575; died in Gernsheim, Grand Duchy of Hesse, May 26, 1615. He seems to have come from the city of Worms, but is first met with at Prague, where, in 1600, he married Eva, the granddaughter of the chief rabbi of Prague, Judah Loew ben Bezalel. He was rabbi in Turbin, Kolín (Bohemia), and in Pohrlitz (Moravia); and was subsequently called to the ministry of the very important congregation of Worms. One of the frequent riots against the Jews, instigated by the guilds, caused him to flee from the city. He died during exile, and was buried in Alsbach. Bacharach was respected for his learning and piety. He took a firm stand against the rabbis of Frankfurt, who arrogated to themselves preeminence over all the other rabbis of Germany. A few of his responsa were published by his grandson, Jair Ḥayyim, in the collected "Ḥut ha-Shani" (Frankfurt-am-Main, 1679). Bacharach was the author of an essay on the Jewish calendar, a number of apologetic works against Christianity, liturgical poems, and casuistic treatises. Some of his works are still extant in manuscript.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP]  He was born in the Polish town of Mlava. In 1936, upon the advice of the famous Amshinover Rebbe, the young Raichik enrolled in the Yeshiva Tomchei Temimim in Otwock, Poland, where he learned the Chabad doctrines of synthesis, scholarship, and personal refinement. Fellow students recall his meticulous observance of the mitzvot and his passionate way of prayer. His Shabbat morning prayer ritual would last as long as six hours, and included lengthy meditations in the Chabad tradition. At night, when reciting the bedtime prayers, Raichik would often become engrossed in introspection into the wee hours, when the time came for morning prayers. During the day he employed his sharp mind in deep Talmudic study. It was in the Lubavitch yeshiva that the young Raichik became attached to the sixth Lubavitcher Rebbe, Rabbi Yosef Yitzchok Schneersohn. In a short time he became one of the select group who memorized and reviewed the Rebbe's discourses, known as choizrim.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP] Maria Lani born in Kolno in 1895; in the late 1920s while in Paris portrayed in paintings and sculpture by over fifty notable artists. ; Albert Lewis was a Broadway and film producer who was born to a Jewish family in Kolno and emigrated to the US as a child. ; Pessah Bar-Adon (born Pessah Panitsch) was an archaeologist, who was involved in many excavations in Israel. ; Gertrude Blanch (born Gittel Kaimowitz) was an accomplished Mathematician, who emigrated to the US as a child. ; Nehemiah Samuel Libowitz was a Jewish scholar. ; Joseph Gabowicz was an acclaimed Sculptor. ; Avraham Akavia was a soldier, author and personal aide to Orde Wingate. ; Ze'ev Yavetz was a historian, author, teacher and one of the founders of the Mizrachi movement. ; Isaac Remba was an author, columnist and personal aide to Ze'ev Jabotinsky ; Chaim Brisman was a theatre actor, director and writer, sculptor and painter who was born in Kolno and emigrated to America in 1921.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP]  Raimund Johann Abraham was born in 1933 in Lienz, East Tyrol, Austria. Throughout a 40-year career, Abraham created visionary projects and built works of architecture in Europe and in the United States. From 1952-1958, Abraham studied at the Graz University of Technology. In 1959, he established a studio in Vienna, where he explored the depths and boundaries of architecture through building, drawing, and montage. Abraham's first book, the 1965 publication "Elementare Architektur" was made at a time of transition between architecture studies and practice. In this early volume on elemental structures, Abraham explores the built environment, absent aesthetic speculation, and determinations about design instead coming from the relative level of knowledge and also the desires of the builder. In 1964, Abraham emigrated to the United States.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP] Abraham Raimbach  Abraham Raimbach (16 February 1776 in London17 January 1843), was an English engraver of Swiss descent.  He was born in Cecil Court in the West End of London. Educated at Archbishop Tenison's Library School, he was apprenticed to the engraver J. Hall from 1789 to 1796. For nine years, part of his working-time was devoted to the study of drawing in the Royal Academy and to carrying out occasional engravings for the booksellers, whilst his leisure hours were employed in painting portraits in miniature. Having formed an intimacy with Sir David Wilkie, Raimbach in 1812 began to engrave some of Wilkie's best pictures. At his death, he held a gold medal awarded for his "Village Politicians" at the Paris Exhibition of 1814. He was elected corresponding member of the Académie des Beaux-Arts in 1835.  He is buried in St Mary's Churchyard, Hendon.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP]
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP] 1843 in art  Events from the year 1843 in art.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP] Samuel Cousins  Samuel Cousins (9 May 1801 in Exeter – 7 May 1887 in London) was a British mezzotinter.
In what city was Abraham Raimbach born? [SEP] Fyodor Iordan  Fyodor Ivanovich Iordan, or Jordan (Russian: Фёдор Иванович Иордан; 13 August 1800 - 19 September 1883) was a Russian engraver and art professor. He was best known for portraits and reproductions of the Old Masters.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]  Henry Hugh Bancroft (29 February 1904 – 11 September 1988) was a British organist, choirmaster, and composer who was organist of five cathedrals. He was born in Cleethorpes, Lincolnshire, and studied music with E. P. Guthrie and J. S. Robinson in nearby Grimsby. He attained the FRCO diploma in 1925. He was then organist of Old Clee parish church, and was supplementing his modest income by playing in the local theatre and by working as a compass adjuster. Seeking better prospects, he left for Canada in 1929 to become organist of St. Matthew's Anglican Church in Winnipeg, Manitoba. In 1936 while at St. Matthew's, he earned an external BMus from Durham University. After nine years, he left for the Church of the Ascension in Hamilton, Ontario, but stayed there only
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]  Bancroft was born on April 20, 1891, in Sioux City, Iowa, the youngest of three children of Ella (née Gearhart) and Frank Bancroft. Frank worked as a news vendor on the Milwaukee Railroad. Bancroft attended Hopkins Grade School and Sioux City High School.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]  Bancroft was born on November 25, 1839 in New Ipswich, New Hampshire to James Bancroft and Sarah Kimball. At an early age he was cared for by Mr. and Mrs. Patch of Ashby, Massachusetts, the neighboring town. While not legally adopted, they named him Cecil Franklin Patch Bancroft, adding Franklin Patch after the son Mr. and Mrs. Patch had who recently died. He attended public schools in Ashby as well as the Appleton Academy in New Ipswich. He entered Dartmouth College in 1856 at the age of sixteen and graduated in 1860 near the top of his class. Bancroft continued his education as he began his career in teaching. He took classes at the Union Theological Seminary in New York City during the 1864-65 academic year. While there he was a member of the United States Christian Commission, traveling to support soldiers during the Civil War. He then transferred to the Andover Theological Seminary where he would graduate in 1867.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]  Levi H. Bancroft was born on December 26, 1861 to George I. and Helen M. Bancroft; reports have differed on the location. He attended high school in Lone Rock, Wisconsin and later became a teacher. In 1884, he graduated from the University of Wisconsin Law School. On June 11, 1890, Bancroft married Myrtle DeLap. From 1907 to 1913, he was a judge advocate of what is now the Wisconsin Army National Guard. He died at his farm near Richland Center on September 5, 1948.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]  Bancroft was born on February 15, 1819 in New Berlin, New York. On September 3, 1843, he married Sarah Merriam. They would have nine children. Bancroft settled in Chester, Wisconsin in 1845.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP] H. Hugh Bancroft  Henry Hugh Bancroft (29 February 1904 – 11 September 1988) was a British organist, choirmaster, and composer who was organist of five cathedrals. He was born in Cleethorpes, Lincolnshire, and studied music with E. P. Guthrie and J. S. Robinson in nearby Grimsby.  He attained the FRCO diploma in 1925. He was then organist of Old Clee parish church and was supplementing his modest income by playing in the local theatre and by working as a compass adjuster. Seeking better prospects, he left for Canada in 1929 to become organist of St. Matthew's Anglican Church in Winnipeg, Manitoba. In 1936 while at St. Matthew's, he earned an external BMus from Durham University. After nine years, he left for the Church of the Ascension in Hamilton, Ontario, but stayed there only nine months.<ref name=":1" /> In 1937, he was back in Winnipeg, at the downtown parish of All Saints, where he developed a men and boys choir of national renown and initiated choral evensongs on the model of the Church of England cathedrals. Also in Winnipeg, he met and married his wife Eldred Curle.  From 1946 to 1948 he was organist of Christ Church Cathedral in Vancouver, British Columbia, director of the Vancouver Bach Choir, and an instructor at the British Columbia Institute of Music and Drama. He left Vancouver to become master of music at St. Andrew's Cathedral in Sydney, Australia, but in 1953 returned to All Saints in Winnipeg.  On a visit to Cambridge University on his way back from Australia, he experienced the annual Advent Carol service of King's College, and the next year introduced the tradition to Canada at All Saints' Church.  He was briefly at Christ Church Cathedral in Nassau, Bahamas, before moving to All Saints' Cathedral in Edmonton, Alberta, in 1958, where he remained until his retirement in 1980. From 1968 to 1977 he also taught for the Department of Music of the University of Alberta in Edmonton.  Bancroft was also known as a teacher, and instructed many students who went on to have careers as composers and organists, including Hugh McLean (organist), Barry Anderson, Barbara Pentland, Douglas Bodle, Elwyn Davies and Herbert Sadler.  An active composer and arranger, Bancroft was an Associate Composer of the Canadian Music Centre and published numerous pieces, including anthems, motets, chorale and organ works. Several works were premiered by major symphony orchestras.<ref name=":0" />
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP]
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP] Hubert Howe Bancroft  Hubert Howe Bancroft (May 5, 1832 – March 2, 1918) was an American historian and ethnologist who wrote, published and collected works concerning the western United States, Texas, California, Alaska, Mexico, Central America and British Columbia.
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP] Bancroft (surname)  Bancroft is a place name-derived English surname originating in the 13th Century with three purported origins: the locale Bancroft in Ardeley, Hertfordshire; the locale of Bancroft Field in Soham, Cambridgeshire; or an Old English transliteration of the phrase "dweller by the bean field'. Bancroft is thought to be related in origin to two other surnames, Bangcroft and Bencroft.<ref name="Browne Reaney Wilson Scull 1991" />
In what city was H. Hugh Bancroft born? [SEP] Natalie Bancroft  Natalie Bancroft (b. circa 1980) is a member of the board of directors of News Corporation.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP]  Nina Dittrich (born November 20, 1990 in Vienna) is an Austrian swimmer, who specialized in freestyle and butterfly events. She is a multiple-time Austrian champion, a five-time national record holder, and also, a current member of Simmering Swimming Club (Schwimmverein Schwechat Simmering) in Schwechat. Dittrich is also the daughter of Ulrike Bauer, an Austrian record holder in both 100 and 200 m breaststroke, and Kurt Dittrich, a sprint butterfly swimmer who competed at the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP]  Lisandrello was born in Encino, a district of Los Angeles, California. During her childhood days she constantly traveled around Europe due to her mother's singing career. At the age of 10 years she did a TV commercial for Levi's directed by David Fincher. This commercial is what later helped her to become a SAG Foundation member. As a teenager she settled in New York City where she remained for many years.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP]  Arthur Gustave Abrecht (Father), Mary Stuart (mother) and Nina moved to Brooklyn in 1902 from Manhattan while Arthur worked as a reporter for a German newspaper New Yorker Staats-Zeitung. She decided to become an artist after receiving awards for her submissions to drawing contests in St. Nicholas Magazine in 1922 and 1923. She enrolled in the School of Art at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn after graduating from high school in 1924.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP]  Stacy Dittrich (born 2 March 1973), a former police detective from Ohio, is an American mystery novelist and true crime author.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP]  Dittrich was born in Biala, Galicia (modern Bielsko-Biała, Poland). He attended the Vienna Conservatory, where he specialized in violin, piano, organ, and music composition. His teachers included Anton Bruckner, who later became one of his sponsors. In November 1886, Dittrich married a singer named Petronella Josefine Leopoldine Lammer (15 September 1860 - 4 January 1891). Dittrich was hired by the Meiji government of Japan as a foreign advisor on a three-year contract and arrived in Tokyo in 1888 as the first Art Director of the Tokyo School of Music (now the Tokyo National University of Fine Arts and Music). Dittrich and his wife both worked at the
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP] Nina Dittrich  Nina Dittrich (born November 20, 1990 in Vienna) is an Austrian swimmer, who specialized in freestyle and butterfly events. She is a multiple-time Austrian champion, a five-time national record holder, and also, a current member of Simmering Swimming Club () in Schwechat.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP] Nina (name)  Nina is a feminine given name with various origins. It is a predominantly east European and Slavic name that has later been used globally.  There are alternate spellings depending on the name's origin. Nína is an Icelandic name used in Iceland.<ref name="Nína" /> Niná is a Sami name used in Northern Norway, northern Sweden, northern Finland and the Murmansk Oblast.<ref name="Niná" />  Nina may also serve as a short form of names ending in "-nina/-ina", including Marina, Katharina, Antonina, Giannina, and Constantina. Nina can also serve as a short form of Anna.  It also has a relation to the Spanish word "niña", which translates as "little girl" and has meaning in several other languages: (Hebrew: "God was gracious, God has shown favor"); (Persian: "nice"); (Hindi: "beautiful"); (Swahili: "mother"); (Native American: "strong"); (Hebrew: "pearl"); (Chamorro: "glimmer of light");(spanish: "angel") (Arabic: "favor, one who is gracious"); (Greek: "flower").
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP] 2006 European Junior Swimming Championships  The 2006 European Junior Swimming Championships were held from July 6 to July 9, 2006, in Palma de Mallorca, Spain. The age groups for this event were girls born in 1990 or 1991 and boys born in 1988 or 1989.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP] Lisa Lopes  Lisa Nicole Lopes (May 27, 1971 – April 25, 2002), better known by her stage name Left Eye, was an American rapper and singer. She was a member of the R&B girl group TLC, alongside Tionne "T-Boz" Watkins and Rozonda "Chilli" Thomas. Besides rapping and singing backing vocals on TLC recordings, Lopes was one of the creative forces behind the group, receiving more co-writing credits than the other members. She also designed the outfits and staging for the group and contributed to the group's image, album titles, artworks, and music videos. Through her work with TLC, Lopes won four Grammy Awards.  During her brief solo career, Lopes scored two US top 10 singles with "Not Tonight" and "U Know What's Up", as well as one UK number-one single with "Never Be the Same Again", the latter a collaboration with Melanie C of the British girl group Spice Girls. She also produced another girl group, Blaque, who scored a platinum album and two US top 10 hits. Lopes remains the only member of TLC to have released a solo album.  On April 25, 2002, Lopes was killed in a car crash while on vacation and shooting a documentary about charity work in Honduras. The vehicle she was in swerved off the road. The documentary was released as "The Last Days of Left Eye" and aired on VH1 in May 2007.
In what city was Nina Dittrich born? [SEP] Han Na-kyeong  Han Na-Kyeong (also "Han Na-Gyeong", ; born June 23, 1993 in Seoul) is a South Korean swimmer, who specialized in long-distance freestyle events. Han is a member of the swimming team at Sehyeon High School in Seoul.<ref name=london2012/>  Han qualified for the women's 800 m freestyle at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, by eclipsing a FINA B-standard entry time of 8:50.16 from the Dong-A Swimming Championships in Ulsan. She challenged seven other swimmers on the second heat, including two-time Olympians Lynette Lim of Singapore, Khoo Cai Lin of Malaysia, and Nina Dittrich of Austria. She rounded out the field to last place by five seconds behind Lim in 8:57.26. Han failed to qualify for the final, as she placed thirty-second overall in the preliminary heats.
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]  Gary David Freear (born 4 May 1982) is an English cricketer. Freear is a right-handed batsman. He was born in King's Lynn, Norfolk. Freear made his debut for Cambridgeshire County Cricket Club in the 2000 Minor Counties Championship against Suffolk. In 2001, he made his List A cricket debut against Somerset in the 2001 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy. He played three further List A matches for Cambridgeshire, the last coming against Northamptonshire in the 2004 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy. He played for Cambridgeshire until the end of the 2014 season. In his spare time Gary works as a carpenter for his family business. More recently he has founded GDF Bats and makes and sells cricket bats and other equipment to the buyers specifications. Gary for many years has been a groundsman at Wisbech Cricket Club, where he resided on the grounds in the ‘chod shack’. This was until he found his girlfriend Heidi Allen.
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]  Louisa Freear (26 November 1871&ndash;23 March 1939) was an English actress and comedienne. She was born in Lambeth, London, and was part of the Freear theatrical family; her parents were actor Henry Butler Freear and Mary Jane Freear ( Burke), a vocalist. Her brother Walter Freear was an actor, dancer and comedian, and brother Alfred worked as a musician. Described as "vital and diminutive", she performed the role Flo Honeydew in The Lady Slavey (1894) and Puck in Herbert Beerbohm Tree's lavish 1900 production of A Midsummer Night's Dream. She was also a success in George Dance's comic opera, A Chinese Honeymoon, in 1901. In 1912, she married Charles Shepherd. She died in London in 1939.
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]  Dee was born in Hope, Arkansas. His father was a sharecropper who moved the family to Exeter, California when Dee was 11. There his father became a fire chief. He went on to spend three semesters at the University of California, Berkeley, studying accounting. He dropped out and went on to enter the College of the Sequoias. He then finished his degree in radio and speech at Fresno State College while living in a funeral home rent-free in exchange for answering the phones at night; or at least that was the deal. Gary sublet two of his three rooms and had the other college students do the work. While in Fresno, he was on-air at KYNO, the Gene Chenault-owned Top-40 station that was an
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]  While still at grammar school, at the age of eleven, he moved out of his parents' Colts Neck home and began making his own living. He supported himself by doing odd jobs and selling his handmade seasonal decorations. For almost a year he secretly slept in the garage of the Sterner family, a prominent Monmouth County couple in the same community, who employed him regularly. Once the family discovered this, they provided space in their home for him. He remained close to them until they died. Gary attended Freehold High School, where he developed an interest in sculpting with wood; he was inducted into the school's hall
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]  Frisch was born in Johannesburg South Africa. His father, Eric, was an entrepreneur, and his mother, Rhona, was a bookkeeper. He was educated at Boksburg High School and studied computer science at the University of the Witwatersrand in Johannesburg while working for De Beers' industrial diamond division.
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP] Gary Freear  Gary David Freear (born 4 May 1982) is an English cricketer. Freear is a right-handed batsman. He was born in King's Lynn, Norfolk.  Freear made his debut for Cambridgeshire County Cricket Club in the 2000 Minor Counties Championship against Suffolk. In 2001, he made his List A cricket debut against Somerset in the 2001 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy. He played three further List A matches for Cambridgeshire, the last coming against Northamptonshire in the 2004 Cheltenham & Gloucester Trophy. He played for Cambridgeshire until the end of the 2014 season.  In his spare time Gary works as a carpenter for his family business. More recently he has founded GDF Bats and makes and sells cricket bats and other equipment to the buyers specifications.   Gary for many years has been a groundsman at Wisbech Cricket Club, where he resided on the grounds in the ‘chod shack’. This was until he found his now wife Heidi Allen.
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP]
In what city was Gary Freear born? [SEP] Augmented reality  Augmented reality (AR) is an interactive experience that combines the real world and computer-generated content. The content can span multiple sensory modalities, including visual, auditory, haptic, somatosensory and olfactory. AR can be defined as a system that incorporates three basic features: a combination of real and virtual worlds, real-time interaction, and accurate 3D registration of virtual and real objects. The overlaid sensory information can be constructive (i.e. additive to the natural environment), or destructive (i.e. masking of the natural environment). This experience is seamlessly interwoven with the physical world such that it is perceived as an immersive aspect of the real environment.  Augmented reality is largely synonymous with mixed reality. There is also overlap in terminology with extended reality and computer-mediated reality.  The primary value of augmented reality is the manner in which components of the digital world blend into a person's perception of the real world, not as a simple display of data, but through the integration of immersive sensations, which are perceived as natural parts of an environment. The earliest functional AR systems that provided immersive mixed reality experiences for users were invented in the early 1990s, starting with the Virtual Fixtures system developed at the U.S. Air Force's Armstrong Laboratory in 1992. Commercial augmented reality experiences were first introduced in entertainment and gaming businesses. Subsequently, augmented reality applications have spanned commercial industries such as education, communications, medicine, and entertainment. In education, content may be accessed by scanning or viewing an image with a mobile device or by using markerless AR techniques.  Augmented reality is used to enhance natural environments or situations and offer perceptually enriched experiences. With the help of advanced AR technologies (e.g. adding computer vision, incorporating AR cameras into smartphone applications and object recognition) the information about the surrounding real world of the user becomes interactive and digitally manipulated. Information about the environment and its objects is overlaid on the real world. This information can be virtual. Augmented Reality is any experience which is artificial and which adds to the already existing reality. or real, e.g. seeing other real sensed or measured information such as electromagnetic radio waves overlaid in exact alignment with where they actually are in space. Augmented reality also has a lot of potential in the gathering and sharing of tacit knowledge. Augmentation techniques are typically performed in real time and in semantic contexts with environmental elements. Immersive perceptual information is sometimes combined with supplemental information like scores over a live video feed of a sporting event. This combines the benefits of both augmented reality technology and heads up display technology (HUD).
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP]  Paweł Blehm (born 17 April 1980 in Olkusz) is a Polish chess grandmaster (2001). He took part in the FIDE World Chess Championship 2000, but was knocked out in the first round by Smbat Lputian. He played for Poland in the Chess Olympiad of 2000. In 2002 he won the Bermuda Open tournament. His handle on the Internet Chess Club is "Pawelek".
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP] Paweł Blehm, a Polish chess grandmaster ; Marcin Bylica a.k.a. Martin Bylica and Marcin z Olkusza, a Polish astrologer, astronomer ; Paweł Czarnota, a Polish chess Grandmaster ; Antoni Kocjan, a Polish war hero and famous glider engineer ; Henryk Mandelbaum, a Polish survivor of the Holocaust ; Tadeusz Rydzyk, a Roman Catholic priest and Redemptorist ; Dov Berish Einhorn, a Rabbi
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP]  Paweł Althamer (born 12 May 1967, Warsaw) is a contemporary Polish sculptor, performer, collaborative artist and creator of installations, and video art.
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP]  Stefan Pawlicki came from a merchant family. He began his education in Danzig (Gdańsk); after his family moved to Greater Poland, he continued it in Pleschen (Pleszew). At age thirteen, he lost his parents during an epidemic. He completed progimnazjum thanks to help from a local parish priest, Father Basiński. He continued his education in 1853–58 at a liceum in Ostrów Wielkopolski, where he was one of the best pupils, thanks to a scholarship from Jan Kanty Działyński of Kórnik. In 1858–62 he studied classical philology at Breslau University. At Breslau (Wrocław) he was secretary and president of the Slavic-Literary Society. In 1862 he
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP]  Michail Paweletz was born and grew up in Heidelberg, Baden-Württemberg, Germany on March 26, 1965. After graduating from the Bunsen-Gymnasium Heidelberg, he began studying the violin at the Hochschule für Musik und Theater Hamburg, which he completed at the Folkwang University of the Arts in Essen, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany. In addition to studying music, he completed acting and speaking training. After studying music, he began in 1995 as a presenter at the ARD-Nachtkonzert and as a speaker for Norddeutscher Rundfunk (NDR). His studies were the prerequisite for his journalistic work at NDR Kultur, where from 1996 he moderated numerous programs, conducted interviews and worked as a reporter. He has been on the
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP] Paweł Blehm  Paweł Blehm (born 17 April 1980 in Olkusz) is a Polish chess grandmaster (2001).  He took part in the FIDE World Chess Championship 2000, but was knocked out in the first round by Smbat Lputian. He played for Poland in the Chess Olympiad of 2000. In 2002 he won the Bermuda Open tournament.  His handle on the Internet Chess Club is "Pawelek".
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP] Robert Rabiega  Robert Rabiega (born 1 February 1971) is a German chess Grandmaster (GM, 2002) who won German Chess Championship (2000).
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP]
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP] Olkusz  Olkusz ( "Elkish", ) is a town in southern Poland with 36,607 inhabitants (2014). Situated in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship (since 1999), previously in Katowice Voivodeship (1975–1998), it is the capital of Olkusz County. Olkusz is known for its abundance of silver, which is mined and extracted in the vicinity.
In what city was Paweł Blehm born? [SEP] List of chess players  This list of chess players includes people who are primarily known as chess players and have an article on the English Wikipedia.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP]  Keri Lees (née Maddox; born 4 July 1972 in Stone, Staffordshire is a female retired English athlete.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP]  Keri Lynn Russell was born on March 23, 1976, in Fountain Valley, California, the daughter of Stephanie Stephens, a homemaker, and David Russell, a Nissan Motors executive. She has an older brother, Todd, and a younger sister, Julie. The family lived in Coppell, Texas; Mesa, Arizona; and Highlands Ranch, Colorado, moving frequently due to her father's work. Russell's dancing earned her a spot on The Mickey Mouse Club.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP]  Latimer was born Keri McTighe in Lethbridge, Alberta, the daughter of Arlene and Bernard McTighe.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP]  Abbey Lee Kershaw was born in Melbourne, Victoria, the daughter of Kerry, a psychologist, and Kim Kershaw, who played in the Victorian Football League for Richmond and Hawthorn. Lee is the middle child. She has said that as a child, she was "always in the hospital." At age four, she suffered from meningitis and had to have two spinal taps. She also had a tumour on the knee, and several broken bones from climbing trees. She grew up in Kensington, Victoria and attended St Michael's Catholic Primary School in North Melbourne. She has stated that she "grew up with 42 nationalities", explaining that her primary school of 150 children was very multicultural. She then attended the Academy of Mary Immaculate in Fitzroy. Lee
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP]  Ker was born in Carterton, in the North Island of New Zealand in 1965.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP] Keri Lees  Keri Lees (née Maddox; born 4 July 1972 in Stone, Staffordshire is a female retired English athlete.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP] Keri Craig-Lee  Keri Craig-Lee (born 4 March 1958) is an Australian, multi-award-winning fashion designer and retailer. She was the first inductee into the National Retail Association (formerly the Retailers Association of Queensland – RAQ) Hall of Fame in 1987 at age 28, and remains a member of the Federal Executive Committee of Fashion Industries of Australia.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP] Kerri Walsh Jennings  Kerri Lee Walsh Jennings (born August 15, 1978) is an American professional beach volleyball player, three-time Olympic gold medalist, and a one-time Olympic bronze medalist.  Walsh Jennings and teammate Misty May-Treanor were the gold medalists in beach volleyball at the 2004, 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics. They also won the FIVB Beach Volleyball World Championships in 2003, 2005 and 2007. The pair set various records throughout their partnership, including a win streak of 112 consecutive matches (19 consecutive tournament titles) in 20072008, breaking their own previous record of 89 consecutive match wins.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP] Kimora Lee Simmons  Kimora Lee Simmons (née Perkins) is an American model, business woman, fashion designer, venture capitalist, entrepreneur, TV personality, philanthropist and author.
In what city was Keri Lees born? [SEP] Kerri Green  Kerri Lee Green (born January 14, 1967) is an American actress, best known for her roles in "The Goonies" (1985), "Summer Rental" (1985), and "Lucas" (1986). She also co-wrote and directed the film "Bellyfruit" (1999).
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]  Christos Mitsis (born 10 July 1980, in Maroussi) is a Greek professional football defender currently playing for AEL 1964 in Gamma Ethniki.
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]  Christodoulos Aronis was born in 1884 in the village of Dendiatika, on the island of Paxos, Greece (see Paxi). He graduated from the Athens School of Fine Arts in 1912, receiving its second highest prize, and then went on to become a painter, professor and a priest. He lived and worked for many years as a minister at St Luke's Orthodox Cathedral, Glasgow   and The Greek Orthodox Cathedral of Saint Sophia (London). He died in Corfu in 1973 and is buried in the cemetery of Taxiarhon Church in Longos, Paxos.
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]  Jani Christou (Γιάννης Χρήστου, Giánnīs Chrī́stou; 8 or 9 January 1926 – 8 January 1970) was a Greek composer. There is some disagreement about Christou's birth, the date of which is given by some authorities as 8 January; while others state 9 January. Most sources agree that he was born in Heliopolis, Egypt, though one states he was born in Alexandria, and it has recently been reported that a birth certificate has been found stating that the composer was born in Nicosia, Cyprus, though this certificate is suspected of being a forgery. His parents were Eleutherios Christou, a Greek industrialist and chocolate manufacturer, and Lilika Tavernari, of Cypriot origin. He was
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]  Moisa was educated at Patriki and Angastina Primary Schools in Cyprus, Mount Cook Primary School, Wellington (1960–1962), Wellington College (1963–1967), and Victoria University of Wellington and University of Auckland in New Zealand. He attended the Sir John School of Art London in 1973 and The Quay School of the Arts at UCOL, Whanganui, New Zealand in 2002. At The Quay School of the Arts, he completed his Bachelor of Fine Arts which he started at Auckland University in 1972, in print-making. From 1954 to 1959 he lived in Varosia/Famagusta a provincial capital in eastern Cyprus and the villages of Patriki and Angastina. He also lived in Angastina 18 months before 1974 coup and Turkish invasion.
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]  Moisa was born in 1948 in Lower Hutt, New Zealand. His parents were immigrants from Cyprus. His father was Evangelos Georgiou Moisa from Marathovounos and his mother was Athena Kleanthi from Angastina two villages in central Cyprus.
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP] Christos Mitsis  Christos Mitsis (born 10 July 1980, in Maroussi) is a Greek professional football defender currently playing for AEL 1964 in Gamma Ethniki.
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]
In what city was Christos Mitsis born? [SEP]
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]  Williams was born in Bluff, Utah. He was in the process of moving to Brazil when he died in New York City at the age of 53. Williams graduated from the San Francisco Art Institute in 1959; showed his work in 1959 at the City Lights Bookstore in San Francisco and moved to New York City that same year. He began exhibiting his paintings in New York in 1960. He was a regular patron of Max's Kansas City throughout the period of the mid-1960s and early 1970s when it belonged to his friend Mickey Ruskin. His paintings were exhibited at important art galleries in New York including solo exhibitions at the Green Gallery (1964), and the André Emmerich Gallery (1966 and 1968) both on 57th Street in Manhattan and at the Dwan Gallery in Los Angeles (1966). His work was included in several important group
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]  Born in Anglesey, Wales he learned to row on the River Wye whilst at Monmouth School (Monmouth Rowing Club), and then attended University College London where he joined the University of London Boat Club.
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]  Alfred Owen Williams (February 7, 1877 &ndash; April 10, 1930) was a poet, author and a collector of folk song lyrics who was born and lived most of his life at South Marston, near Swindon, UK. He was almost entirely self-taught, producing his most famous work, Life in a Railway Factory (1915), in his spare time after completing a gruelling day's work in the Great Western Railway works in Swindon. He was nicknamed “The Hammerman Poet”. Williams was born in Cambria Cottage in the village of South Marston, the son of a carpenter, and grew up in poverty after his father abandoned his wife and eight children. He became a farm labourer
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]  Comedian and actor, Robin Williams helped San Francisco become recognized as a good town for comedy clubs. He rose to fame, having gotten his early start in San Francisco clubs such as the Holy City Zoo, the Punchline and the Other Cafe in the '70's. He also shot seven films on location in San Francisco.
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]  Robin McLaurin Williams was born at St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago, Illinois, on July 21, 1951. His father, Robert Fitzgerald Williams, was a senior executive in Ford's Lincoln-Mercury Division. His mother, Laurie McLaurin, was a former model from Jackson, Mississippi, whose great-grandfather was Mississippi senator and governor Anselm J. McLaurin, a Democrat. Williams had two elder half-brothers: paternal half-brother Robert (also known as Todd) and maternal half-brother McLaurin. While his mother was a practitioner of Christian Science, Williams was raised in his father's Episcopal faith. During a television interview on Inside the Actors Studio in 2001, Williams credited his mother as an important early influence on his humor, and
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP] Robin Williams  Robin McLaurin Williams (July 21, 1951August 11, 2014) was an American actor and comedian. Known for his improvisational skills and the wide variety of characters he created on the spur of the moment and portrayed on film, in dramas and comedies alike, he is regarded as one of the greatest comedians of all time.  Williams began performing stand-up comedy in San Francisco and Los Angeles during the mid-1970s, After his first leading film role in "Popeye" (1980), he starred in several critically and commercially successful films, including "The World According to Garp" (1982), "Moscow on the Hudson" (1984), "Good Morning, Vietnam" (1987), "Dead Poets Society" (1989), "Awakenings" (1990), "The Fisher King" (1991), "Patch Adams" (1998), "One Hour Photo" (2002), and "World's Greatest Dad" (2009). He also starred in box office successes such as "Hook" (1991), "Aladdin" (1992), "Mrs. Doubtfire" (1993), "Jumanji" (1995), "The Birdcage" (1996), "Good Will Hunting" (1997), and the "Night at the Museum" trilogy (2006–2014). He was nominated for four Academy Awards, winning Best Supporting Actor for "Good Will Hunting". He also received two Primetime Emmy Awards, six Golden Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and five Grammy Awards.  On August 11, 2014, at age 63, Williams died by suicide at his home in Paradise Cay, California. His autopsy revealed undiagnosed Lewy body disease.
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP] Zelda Williams  Zelda Rae Williams (born July 31, 1989) is an American actress, director, producer, and writer. She is the daughter of the late actor and comedian Robin Williams and film producer and philanthropist Marsha Garces Williams. As a voice actress, she is best known for voicing Kuvira in the Nickelodeon cartoon "The Legend of Korra".
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP] Robbie Williams  Robert Peter Williams (born 13 February 1974) is an English singer and songwriter. He found fame as a member of the pop group Take That from 1990 to 1995, and achieved commercial success after launching a solo career in 1996. His debut studio album, "Life thru a Lens", was released in 1997, and included his signature song, "Angels". His second album, "I've Been Expecting You", featured the songs "Millennium" and "She's the One", his first number one singles. His discography includes seven UK No. 1 singles, and all but one of his 14 studio albums have reached No. 1 in the UK. Six of his albums are among the top 100 biggest-selling albums in the UK, with two of them in the top 60, and he gained a Guinness World Record in 2006 for selling 1.6 million tickets in a single day during his Close Encounters Tour.   Williams has received a record 18 Brit Awards, winning Best British Male Artist four times, Outstanding Contribution to Music twice, an Icon Award for his lasting impact on British culture, eight German ECHO Awards, and three MTV European Music Awards. In 2004, he was inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame after being voted the Greatest Artist of the 1990s. According to the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), he has been certified for 20.2 million albums and 8.66 million singles in the UK as a solo artist. Five of his albums have also topped the Australian albums chart, and has sold 75 million records worldwide, making him one of the best-selling music artists of all time. He also topped the 2000–2010 UK airplay chart. His three concerts at Knebworth in 2003 drew over 375,000 people, the UK's biggest music event to that point.  After 15 years, Williams rejoined Take That in 2010 to co-write and perform lead vocals on their album "Progress", which became the second-fastest-selling album in UK chart history and the fastest-selling record of the century at the time. The subsequent stadium tour, which featured seven songs from Williams' solo career, became the biggest-selling concert in UK history when it sold 1.34 million tickets in less than 24 hours. In 2011, Take That frontman Gary Barlow confirmed that Williams had left the band for a second time to focus on his solo career, although he stated that the departure was amicable and that Williams was welcome to rejoin Take That in the future. Williams has since performed with Take That on three separate television appearances, and collaborated with Barlow on a number of projects such as the West End musical "The Band".
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP]
In what city was Robin Williams born? [SEP] Cindy Williams  Cynthia Jane Williams (born August 22, 1947) is an American actress and producer, known for her role as Shirley Feeney on the television sitcom "Happy Days" (1975–1979), and "Laverne & Shirley" (1976–1982).
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]  John Keating was born in Ireland in 1760, and raised in France. He joined the French Army, resigning in face of the Haitian and French revolutions to settle in Philadelphia. He spent the rest of his long life as a land agent and manager for the settlement of inland Pennsylvania, known for competence, honesty, and care for the settlers.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]  John Keating was born in 1760 to Valentine Keating, a Catholic Irish gentleman educated in France. In 1766, having overcome trumped-up charges of treason, and still facing the severe disadvantages of the penal laws against Catholics, the family moved to France and settled in Poitiers. In recognition of his noble ancestry, Valentine was granted letters patent of nobility by Louis XV. John, with his twin brother William, was educated at the English College, Douai. After graduating, he and William were both granted a commission in Walsh's regiment, in which their elder brother Thomas was already serving.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]  John Keating was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Robert and Gertrude Keating. He was educated at Queen of All Saints School, Archbishop Quigley Preparatory Seminary in Chicago, and St. Mary of the Lake Seminary in Mundelein, Illinois. Keating continued his studies at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, from where he obtained a Licentiate of Sacred Theology in 1959.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]  Keating was born on February 10, 1944, in St. Louis, Missouri, the son of Mary Ann (Martin) and Anthony Francis Keating. He was born David Rowland Keating, but his name was changed to Francis Anthony Keating II when he was two. Before he was six months old, his family moved to Oklahoma and settled in Tulsa. A practicing Catholic, Keating attended Cascia Hall Preparatory School in Tulsa, graduating in 1962. Keating attended Georgetown University in Washington, D.C. where he was president of the college student body and an editor of The Hoya, receiving his Bachelor of Arts in history, in 1966. He obtained a J.D. from the University of Oklahoma College of Law, in 1969, where he also
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]  Keating was born in Hobart and educated at Officer College, Hobart, Saint Ignatius' College, Riverview, Sydney and the University of Tasmania where he received a Bachelor of Laws in 1896. He established a legal practice in Launceston and became a campaigner for federation and secretary of the Northern Tasmanian Federation League. He married Sarah Alice "Lallie" Monks in January 1906.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP] John Keating (sportscaster)  John Keating (born c. 1957) is a Bally Sports Detroit host and reporter. He was born in Madison Heights, Michigan. He attended Grand Valley State University.  In 2019, Keating won his 16th local Emmy from the Michigan chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP] Ronan Keating  Ronan Patrick John Keating (born 3 March 1977) is an Irish singer. He debuted in 1993 alongside Keith Duffy, Michael Graham, Shane Lynch, and Stephen Gately, as the co-lead singer (with Gately) of Irish pop group Boyzone. His solo career started in 1999 and he has recorded eleven albums. He gained worldwide attention when his single "When You Say Nothing at All" was featured in the film "Notting Hill" and reached number one in several countries. Keating currently hosts a breakfast show on Magic Radio.  As a solo artist, Keating has sold over 20 million records worldwide alongside the 25 million records with Boyzone, and in Australia, he is best known as a judge on "All Together Now" and "The X Factor" from 2010 until 2014 and a coach on "The Voice" in 2016, and returning in 2022. Keating is active in charity work and has been a charity campaigner for the Marie Keating Foundation, which raises awareness for breast cancer and is named after his mother, who died from the disease in 1998.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP] Johnny Keating  John Keating (10 September 1927 – 28 May 2015) was a Scottish musician, songwriter, arranger and trombonist.
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP]
In what city was John Keating born? [SEP] John Keating (land developer)  John Keating was born in Ireland in 1760, and raised in France. He joined the French Army, resigning in face of the Haitian and French revolutions to settle in Philadelphia. He spent the rest of his long life as a land agent and manager for the settlement of inland Pennsylvania, known for competence, honesty, and care for the settlers.
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]  Karnavičius was born in Kaunas, Lithuania, which at the time was a part of the Russian Empire. After completing his basic education in his homeland, he began the study of Law in St. Petersburg, Russia. Karnavičius' son, also named Jurgis Karnavičius (1912–2001), was a pianist and the long-time rector of the Lithuanian Academy of Music. His grandson, Jurgis Karnavičius (born 1957), is a concert pianist. Music had always been his main interest, and he began to simultaneously study music theory and composition. This soon superseded his pursuit of a career in the legal profession. His primary instrument was the viola. Eventually he became a professor at the Conservatory of Music in the now renamed city of Leningrad. During this period he began experimenting with his own theories of musical composition and began writing his
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]  Jurgis Karnavičius (born 1957, in Vilnius) is a Lithuanian pianist. Karnavičius comes from a renowned family of musicians: his grandfather, Jurgis Karnavičius (1884–1941), was a composer, and his father, also named Jurgis (1912–2001), was a pianist and the long-time rector of the Lithuanian Academy of Music. Karnavičius graduated from the Lithuanian Academy of Music in 1980, specializing in the piano. He then continued his studies at the Moscow Conservatory for several more years. Jurgis Karnavičius is a piano soloist who has played with different orchestras, and he often accompanies his wife, the opera singer Sigutė Stonytė. In recent years he has been actively collaborating with several chamber ensembles, preparing concert programmes with the M. K. Čiurlionis String Quartet, Lithuanian Art Museum Quartet, Sostinės String Trio, and others. He has played well over one hundred solo concerts. In 2004, Jurgis Karnavičius earned a professorship with the Lithuanian Academy of Music.
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]  Jurgis Karnavičius (23 April 1884 – 22 December 1941) was a Lithuanian composer of classical music and a forerunner of the development of Lithuanian operatic works.
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]  works. In 1927, Karnavičius returned to Lithuania, which had only regained its independence as a sovereign nation less than ten years earlier. In addition to teaching at the Conservatory of Music in Kaunas, he opted to play the viola with the orchestra of the State Opera for a number of years. Having a personal desire write a new opera himself, and under the influence of the renewed national pride released by Lithuania's regaining its independence, Karnavičius began to write his first opera, Gražina, which premiered on February 16, 1933. It had incorporated more than forty melodies borrowed from Lithuanian folk songs, and was a popular success. It is considered among the first of the "Lithuanian National Operas". This was followed in 1937 by the opera Radvila Perkūnas about the Lithuanian nobleman Krzysztof Mikołaj Radziwiłł.
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]  Jurgis Usinavičius (real name Napalys Augulis; born 27 March 1932 in Pimpičkų rural area, Skapiškis district) – Lithuanian journalist, editor, publicist and writer.
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP] Jurgis  Jurgis () and Jurģis () are male given names. They are cognates of George. They may refer to:
In what city was Jurgis Karnavičius born? [SEP]
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP]  Xue Jiye (born in 1965 in Dalian, Liaoning) is a Chinese painter and sculptor. He graduated from Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts in 1988 and currently lives and works in Beijing. Xue Jiye and his work have been featured in various art exhibitions both in China and abroad, including the Guangdong Art Museum, National Gallery of Indonesia, Kunstverein Manneim, etc.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP]  Xue was born in Guangdong Province in 1953. His father, Xue Zizheng, was the vice minister of the United Front Work Department. During his childhood, Xue lived in Toufa Hutong, Beijing. In 1966 when Xue was thirteen years old, the Cultural Revolution was launched by Mao Zedong, during which his father Xue Zizheng was isolated and jailed. Two years later, Xue went to Urad Front Banner to work as a Sent-down youth in the Down to the Countryside Movement. In 1976, Xue worked at Wenwu Publisher as an editor, and started to learn English from Xiao Qian, Shen Congwen and Li
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP]  Xu Pei was born on 22 March 1966 in Kangding City, the seat of the Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture in the Sichuan of Southwest China. Xu has three older brothers and one younger brother. In her childhood, Xu was sent to foster care in Chengdu. When she was 8 years old, her parents were transferred to work in Ya'an and Xu was taken back to her parents. In 1983, Xu was admitted to the German Department at Sichuan International Studies University and graduated in 1987. Xu later worked in Leshan as a tour guide for German visitor groups. Xu came to Germany at the end of 1988 and studied German philology and philosophy at the Heinrich Heine University in Düsseldorf, obtaining a PhD in 1996. Xu obtained German citizenship in 2004 and currently lives in Cologne. She is a poet, writer, and human rights activist. Xu specializes in German poetry and published essays, commentaries and papers. She is active in radio and TV programs and on Internet. She has worked with Amnesty International and the Society for Threatened Peoples.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP]  Cui Jie was born in 1983, in Shanghai, China. In 2006, she graduated from China Academy of Art Oil Painting Department. She currently lives and works in Beijing, China. Cui Jie is represented by LEO XU PROJECTS and Mother's Tankstation, Dublin. Cui Jie is described by The Wall Street Journal as one of the youngest "China's Rising Art Stars." She has been named one of Phaidon Press's leading painters in its publication, Vitamin P3, and she is profiled in the December/January 2015 issue of Surface Magazine. Cui's early works questioned the truth in reality through the unconventional combination of images on canvas, a multi-perspective approach which she associates with Orson Welles. Later, in
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP]  Xue was born in Lirang Town of Liangshan County in Sichuan Province of China in 1905, which was during the Qing Dynasty. In his early years, he studied at school in Wuchang and Nanjing. He is a graduate of Shanghai University, Communist University of the Toilers of the East, and Lenin Military-Political Academy. In 1926, Xue joined the Communist Party of China. He took part in the Third Rebellion of Shanghai Workers (上海工人第三次武装举事). Xue worked in Eastern Jiangxi Communist-controlled China (赣东东北革命根据地) in 1930, then worked in Minbei Communist-controlled China (闽北革命根据地), he was transferred to Jiangxi Military District (江西军区) in 1934. After 1949, Xue served as the deputy mayor of Beijing, the vice chairman of State Economic and Trade Commission, the deputy head of the United Front Work Department of the CPC Central Committee, the deputy secretary general of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, Members Member of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the Communist Party of China. In July 1980, Xue died in Beijing.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP] Xuefei Yang  Xuefei Yang (; born March 15, 1977) is a Chinese classical guitarist.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP] Jin Xuefei (skier)  Jin Xuefei (born 25 June 1964) is a Chinese alpine skier. She competed in two events at the 1984 Winter Olympics.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP] Qi Xuefei  Qi Xuefei (; born 28 February 1992) is a Chinese-born French badminton player. As a Nanjing native, Qi came to France to play a few Inter-club matches in Rostrenen in 2014. She married her physiotherapist in 2015, and decided to settle in Rostrenen. She obtained her French nationality in 2018, and at the same year, she entered the women's singles team in INSEP. Qi competed at the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympics.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP] Xue Fei (footballer)  Xue Fei (Chinese: 薛飞; born 29 October 1987 in Beijing) is a Chinese football player who plays for China League Two side Sichuan Jiuniu.
In what city was Xue Fei born? [SEP] Fan Xuefei  Fan Xuefei (born 9 October 1990) is a Chinese lightweight rower.  At the 2006 World Rowing Championships at Dorney Lake, Eton, Great Britain, she won a gold medal in the lightweight women's quadruple sculls.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]  Denis Joseph Crowley (1945 – 19 February 2016) was an Irish Gaelic footballer who played as a midfielder for the Kerry senior team. Born in Rathmore, County Kerry, Crowley was introduced to Gaelic football in his youth. At club level he lined out with Rathmore, however, it was with divisional side East Kerry that he won four championship medals. Crowley made his debut on the inter-county scene when he first linked up with the Kerry senior team during the 1967 championship. He went on to win two All-Ireland medals, four Munster medals and two National League medals. He was an All-Ireland runner-up on one occasion. Crowley was a member of the Munster inter-provincial team on a number of occasions but never won a Railway Cup medal. He retired from inter-county football following the conclusion of the 1972 championship.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]  Crowley grew up in Norwich, Norfolk, and gained a degree in history at Magdalene College, Cambridge University, and a post-graduate diploma in broadcast journalism from City University London.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP] Din Joe Buckley (1919–2009), Irish hurler ; Din Joe Crowley (1945–2016), Irish Gaelic footballer Din Joe is an Irish nickname. Notable people with the nickname include:
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]  Crowley was born on April 29, 1871 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]  Crowley was born in Clonakilty, West Cork, the youngest of eight children born to John and Julia Crowley (née Twohig). After his education he worked as a van driver. Crowley married Sheila Crowley and they had two sons. Crowley died at his home in Clonakilty on 3 December 1963, after suffering a stroke while attending the weekly meeting of the Clonakilty Coursing Club. At just 42-years-old he was the third member of the 1945 All-Ireland-winning team to die.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP] Din Joe Crowley  Denis Joseph Crowley (1945 – 19 February 2016) was an Irish Gaelic footballer who played as a midfielder for the Kerry senior team.  Born in Rathmore, County Kerry, Crowley was introduced to Gaelic football in his youth. At club level he lined out with Rathmore, however, it was with divisional side East Kerry that he won four championship medals.  Crowley made his debut on the inter-county scene when he first linked up with the Kerry senior team during the 1967 championship. He went on to win two All-Ireland medals, four Munster medals and two National League medals. He was an All-Ireland runner-up on one occasion.  Crowley was a member of the Munster inter-provincial team on a number of occasions but never won a Railway Cup medal. He retired from inter-county football following the conclusion of the 1972 championship.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP]
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP] Paudie O'Donoghue  Paudie O'Donoghue (1944–2008) was an Irish sportsperson. He played Gaelic football with his local club Ballylongford and was a member of the Kerry senior inter-county team from 1964 until 1974.
In what city was Din Joe Crowley born? [SEP] Victor McLaglen  Victor Andrew de Bier Everleigh McLaglen (10 December 1886 – 7 November 1959) was a British boxer-turned-Hollywood actor. He was known as a character actor, particularly in Westerns, and made seven films with John Ford and John Wayne. McLaglen won the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1935 for his role in "The Informer".
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]  Joachim Zachris Duncker (12 November 1774 – 6 July 1809) was a Swedish soldier born in Ristiina in Savonia. In 1789 Duncker obtained the rank of 2nd Lieutenant in the Savonia ranger regiment. He fought in the 1790 war against Russia and proved his valor at the Battle of Perttimäki 19 May. In 1804 Duncker was promoted to Captain. During the Finnish War of 1808-1809 he distinguished himself as a brave and prominent officer. When Cronstedt's army retreated from Mikkeli to Iisalmi and Oulu through Leppävirta (March 1808), Duncker commanded the army's rearguard. During the Battle of Pulkkila (2 May 1808) he distinguished himself so well that Johan August Sandels gave him the honorary assignment to bring the news of the victory to the Swedish king. Shortly after, he was
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]  Rücker was born in 1951 in Schwäbisch Hall, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. He has a doctoral degree in international economics.
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]  He was the eldest son of pastor Albert Andreas Duncker (1706–1781) and his second wife, Sophie Dorothea von Olthof (d.1761). His early artistic career was promoted by his uncle, Adolf Friedrich von Olthof, a Swedish Pomeranian Councilor from Stralsund, who arranged for him to study with the landscape painter Jakob Philipp Hackert. In 1765, Hackert took him to Paris and, after the Olthofs lost their fortune in 1768, took over his upbringing. In addition to receiving lessons from Joseph Marie Vien and Noël Hallé, he was influenced by the work of the copper engraver, Johann Georg Wille. He also studied the basics of
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]  Duncker was born in Hamburg as a son of a businessman. He studied music at the Leipzig Conservatory, then history, economics and philosophy at the University of Leipzig. He joined the Social Democratic Party of Germany (SPD) in 1893. In 1898 he married Käte Duncker (née Doell) who was then a teacher, but also became a socialist politician, journalist and feminist. The couple had three children: daughter Hedwig (1899–1996, physician), and sons Karl (1903–1940, Gestalt psychologist) and Wolfgang (1909–1942, journalist and film critic). In 1900, Duncker started teaching at the Leipzig workers' educational association. In 1903 he completed his Ph.D. under supervision of Karl Bücher and Karl Lamprecht. In the same
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]  He was descended from a successful Berlin family of booksellers, born in Berlin, the son of Carl Friedrich Wilhelm Duncker (1781–1869) and Fanny Duncker (née Wolff). His brothers included historian and politician Maximilian Duncker (1811–1886), and publisher and pundit Franz Duncker (1822–1888), founder of a trade union with labor economist Max Hirsch (1832–1905). Another brother, Hermann Carl Rudolf Duncker (1817–1892) was a member of the Prussian National Assembly and a mayor of Berlin. Duncker's father had founded the publishing firm Duncker & Humblot in 1809, running it alone after business partner Peter Humblot died in 1828. Alexander Duncker started his education in 1829. After apprenticeships with Friedrich Christoph Perthes and Johann Besser in Hamburg, Duncker founded his own firm, "Verlag Alexander Duncker." His firm
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP] Joachim Zachris Duncker  Joachim Zachris Duncker (12 November 1774 – 6 July 1809) was a Swedish soldier born in Ristiina in Savonia.  In 1789 Duncker obtained the rank of 2nd Lieutenant in the Savonia ranger regiment. He fought in the 1790 war against Russia and proved his valor at the Battle of Perttimäki 19 May. In 1804 Duncker was promoted to Captain.  During the Finnish War of 1808-1809 he distinguished himself as a brave and prominent officer. When Cronstedt's army retreated from Mikkeli to Iisalmi and Oulu through Leppävirta (March 1808), Duncker commanded the army's rearguard. During the Battle of Pulkkila (2 May 1808) he distinguished himself so well that Johan August Sandels gave him the honorary assignment to bring the news of the victory to the Swedish king. Shortly after, he was promoted to Major. In June 1808 he captured a large transport of supplies to the Russians. During the Battle of Koljonvirta (27 October 1808), Duncker together with Colonel Fahlander and Major Malm and only 600 men helped Sandels to utterly defeated a superior Russian force. In 1809 Duncker fought the Russians in the Swedish province of Västerbotten, and was promoted to Lieutenant-Colonel. During the Battle of Hörnefors (5 July 1809) Duncker commanded the Swedish rearguard and received fatal wounds and died in the Russian encampment the day after.  Duncker was buried next to Umeå church by the Russians that gave him a full honour guard. He lies buried together with a Russian cossack chief. In 1897 a memorial was erected on the spot where the grave was assumed to be.
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP] Duncker  Duncker is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP] Johan August Sandels  Count Johan August Sandels (31 August 1764 – 22 January 1831) was a Swedish soldier and politician, being appointed Governor-general of Norway ("Riksståthållare" in Swedish, "Rigsstatholder" in Dano-Norwegian) 1818 and Field Marshal in 1824. He also served as acting Over-Governor of Stockholm in 1815.
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]
In what city was Joachim Zachris Duncker born? [SEP]
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP]  Paul Revere Braniff was born in Kansas City, Kansas. He grew up during the early era of aviation, and, as a youngster, became fascinated with the new way of transport. His family moved to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in 1900. Paul Revere Braniff met Marie Agnes Maney and they married on April 29, 1920. Marie Maney was born on May 2, 1898, in El Reno, Oklahoma. She was the daughter of James W. Maney, who was an Oklahoma Territory Pioneer. He built thousands of miles of railroads throughout the Western United States. His occupation was Civil Engineer and was President of the Clinton and Western Oklahoma Railroad and founded a chain of grain elevators in
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP]  Paul Braniff joined the United States Army during World War I as a mechanic and private on July 6, 1917. He went to France, becoming a corporal, then a temporary sergeant. In France, he learned to shoot, becoming an avid gunman, although he never used this ability other than for warfare. After being honorably discharged from the Army, he joined brother Tom in an insurance company that carried the family's name. Paul Revere, however, kept dreaming about aviation all along and received his pilot's license in 1917. He obtained Transport License Number 690 from Orville Wright. In 1924, Mr. Braniff was able to buy his own aircraft.
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP]  Paul Revere Braniff (August 30, 1897 – June 1, 1954 - tombstone incorrectly states June 15, 1954) was an airline entrepreneur. Paul, along with his brother Thomas Elmer Braniff, was one of the original founders of Braniff Airways, Inc. d/b/a Braniff International Airways (after 1948).
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP]  Enid, Oklahoma, area. Marie Maney grew up at Maney House in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, that is now a historically protected property. She attended and graduated from schools in Baltimore, Maryland. Marie Agnes Braniff was highly interested in her husband's work. When he founded Paul R. Braniff, Inc. and then its successor Braniff Airways, Inc., she traveled with him scouting new routes. Mrs. Braniff's great love for Paul and his aviation interests led her to compile a very detailed archive on the history of Braniff Airways. She remained highly interested and involved in the preservation of Braniff history even after Paul Braniff's death in 1954. Paul and his wife Marie settled into a Northwest Oklahoma
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP]  home shortly after they married, that Mrs. Braniff lived in until her death on April 29, 1988. After Paul's death in 1954, Mrs. Braniff worked as a records archivist at the Oklahoma State Capital Building. She also worked at the St. Thomas More Book Store, also in Oklahoma City. She was active at her church, teaching Sunday School at it, the St. Francis Assisi Catholic Church. She was a member of the Legion of Mary at the same church. Paul and Marie had one child, a son, John Paul Braniff, who was born on October 29, 1927. John Braniff died in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, on February 1, 2013, at the age of 85.
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP] Paul Revere Braniff  Paul Revere Braniff (August 30, 1897 – June 1, 1954) was an airline entrepreneur. Braniff was one of the original founders of Braniff International Airways. He served as a mechanic in World War I in the United States Army and then as a pilot in World War II.
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP] Paul Braniff (hurler)  Paul Braniff (born 1982) is an Irish hurler who currently plays as a full-forward for the Down senior team.  Braniff made his first appearance for the team during the 2000 championship and has remained as a regular member of the team since then. Although he has won a Ulster medals at under-21 level, Braniff has enjoyed little success with the Down senior team. Braniff scored 3–9 in the National Hurling League Division 2 Final in 2004 where Down beat Westmeath 5–15 to 3–07. Braniff led Down to their first Christy Ring Cup in 2013 in a 3–16 to 2–17 over Kerry with a Gareth 'Magic' Johnson goal in injury-time goal won it for the Ardsmen.  At club level Braniff is a five-time county championship medalist with Portaferry.  He is well known as Down best player for many years, and many people think he was and maybe still is the best player in Ulster. He captained Portaferry and County Down in 2010.
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP] Thomas Elmer Braniff  Thomas Elmer Braniff (December 6, 1883 – January 10, 1954) was an original co-founder of Braniff International Airways, along with his brother Paul Revere Braniff. Known as Tom Braniff, he was also a noted insurance pioneer in Oklahoma. In 1928 he formed Paul R. Braniff, Inc., with his brother Paul Braniff, to operate schedule air carrier flights between Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Oklahoma.
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP] Paul Braniff  Paul Braniff may refer to:
In what city was Paul Braniff born? [SEP] Braniff International Airways  Braniff Airways, Inc., operated as Braniff International Airways from 1948 until 1965, and then Braniff International from 1965 until air operations ceased, was an airline in the United States that once flew air carrier operations from 1928 until 1982 and continues today as a retailer, hotelier, travel service and branding and licensing company, administering the former airline's employee pass program and other airline administrative duties. Braniff's routes were primarily in the midwestern and southwestern United States, Mexico, Central America, and South America. In the late 1970s it expanded to Asia and Europe. The airline ceased air carrier operations in May 1982 because of high fuel prices, credit card interest rates and extreme competition from the large trunk carriers and the new airline startups created by the Airline Deregulation Act of December 1978. Two later airlines used the Braniff name: the Hyatt Hotels-backed Braniff, Inc. in 1983–89, and Braniff International Airlines, Inc. in 1991–92.  In early 2015, the private Irrevocable Trust that owned and administered Braniff's intellectual property and certain other company assets since 1983, released the assets to a private entity associated with the Trust, which founded a series of new Braniff companies that were incorporated in the State of Oklahoma, for historical purposes and for administration of the Braniff trademarks, copyrights and other intellectual property. These companies included Braniff Air Lines, Inc., Paul R. Braniff, Inc., Braniff Airways, Inc., Braniff International Hotels, Inc., and Braniff International Corporation. During 2017 and 2018, some of the original Braniff companies were reinstated for historical purposes and administration of Braniff's intellectual property assets including those of Mid-Continent Airlines, Pan American Grace Airways and Long and Harman Airlines, Inc. However, in early 2022, the private Trust that originally owned Braniff's intellectual property since 1983, reacquired these assets along with the original Braniff companies and corresponding assets.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP]  Born in Memphis, Tennessee.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP]  All results are sourced from the International Ski Federation (FIS).
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP]  Scott Patterson (born December 23, 1961) is a Canadian athlete who has appeared in four Paralympic Games in three different sports. Patterson is a double leg amputee injured in a work accident in 1982. He competed in four events in track athletics in the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, South Korea, his best result being fifth. His next appearance was not until the 2002 Winter Paralympics in Salt Lake City, where he entered 3 alpine skiing events, winning a bronze medal in the Men's giant slalom LW12. He skied again in 2006 in Torino, but his best result was a 20th place. In the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London he appeared for the first time as a swimmer, taking 8th place in the final of the 100 metre breaststroke SB5.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP]  Scott Patterson (born January 28, 1992) is an American cross-country skier. He competed in the 2018 Winter Olympics. He skied for South Anchorage High School, where he was a three-time Alaska State skimeister. He then skied for University of Vermont, along with his sister, Caitlin. Currently, he represents Alaska Pacific University professionally and the US Ski Team. Most recently, he placed 10th at the World Championships 50k Classic race in Obersdorf, Germany.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP]  Patterson grew up in Montgomery, Alabama, near South Boulevard, and attended Loveless Academic Magnet Program. He then studied engineering at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and entered a graduate psychology program at Vanderbilt University.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP] Scott Patterson  Scott Gordon Patterson (born September 11, 1958) is an American actor and musician. He is known for his role as Luke Danes in "Gilmore Girls" and as Special Agent Peter Strahm in the "Saw" films. He also starred as Michael Buchanan in the NBC drama series "The Event" and as a Tenctonese alien commander in the TV film "".
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP] Scott Patterson (skier, born 1992)  Scott Patterson (born January 28, 1992) is an American cross-country skier. He competed in the 2018 Winter Olympics and 2022 Winter Olympics. He skied for South Anchorage High School, where he was a three-time Alaska State skimeister. He then skied for University of Vermont, along with his sister, Caitlin. Currently, he represents Alaska Pacific University professionally and the US Ski Team. Most recently, he placed 10th at the World Championships 50k Classic race in Obersdorf, Germany.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP] Scott Patterson (baseball)  Scott Robert Patterson (born June 20, 1979 in Oakdale, Pennsylvania) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees and San Diego Padres.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP] Scott Patterson (director)  Scott Patterson (born 21 January 1962) is an Australian film director and film editor.  Before moving towards directing and film producing, Patterson used to work for the Australian television production company, Ross Wood Productions. Patterson's debut feature film, "A Wreck, A Tangle", received an Australian Film Institute Award nomination for 'Best Achievement in Sound' in 2000. It also won an Awgie Award from the Australian Writers' Guild in the category 'Feature Film – Original'.  His films have been screened at the Cannes Film Festival and Venice Film Festival, making him one of only a few Australian film directors to have films screened at both of these festivals. His short film "Lessons in the Language of Love" was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1995 Cannes Film Festival. He has also directed and produced commercials featuring Tina Turner and his 2001 short film "Pact" won the 'Premiere Award' at the Hamburg Short Film Festival.  Patterson's 2004 feature film, "The Crop", received the prize for 'Best International Feature Film' at the New York International Film Festival in 2005.
In what city was Scott Patterson born? [SEP] Scott Patterson (Paralympian)  Scott Patterson (born December 23, 1961) is a Canadian athlete who has appeared in four Paralympic Games in three different sports.  Patterson is a double leg amputee injured in a work accident in 1982. He competed in four events in track athletics in the 1988 Summer Paralympics in Seoul, South Korea, his best result being fifth.  His next appearance was not until the 2002 Winter Paralympics in Salt Lake City, where he entered 3 alpine skiing events, winning a bronze medal in the Men's giant slalom LW12. He skied again in 2006 in Torino, but his best result was a 20th place.  In the 2012 Summer Paralympics in London he appeared for the first time as a swimmer, taking 8th place in the final of the 100 metre breaststroke SB5.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]  Perron was born in Quebec City, Quebec. After graduating from the University of Laval with a Bachelor of Arts in Philosophy Perron went to France to continue his studies with the goal of becoming a teacher. He studied linguistics at the Academie de Portier.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]  Maurice Bizot was born in Puéchabon on 27 November 1896.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]  Martin Gaston Biron (born August 15, 1977) is a Canadian American former professional ice hockey goaltender. Drafted by the Buffalo Sabres in the first round (16th overall) of the 1995 NHL Entry Draft, he spent the first half of his 16-year National Hockey League (NHL) career with the Sabres, later having stints with the Philadelphia Flyers, New York Islanders, and New York Rangers. He is currently a television analyst with the Sabres on MSG Western New York. His younger brother Mathieu played 250 games in the NHL as a defenceman.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]  Biedroń was born on 13 April 1976 in Rymanów, in Podkarpackie Voivodeship. He grew up in Krosno. Biedroń completed his secondary education in Ustrzyki Dolne. He received a bachelor in political science at the University of Warmia and Mazury in Olsztyn (2000). He received a master's degree in the same field in 2003. He also is a graduate of the School of Political and Social Leaders and the School of Human Rights at the Helsinki Human Rights Foundation. Biedroń speaks English, French, Russian, Esperanto and Italian.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]  Joseph Francis Biroc was born on February 12, 1903 in New York City, New York. He attended Emerson High School in Union City, New Jersey only to drop out to pursue a career in film – a subject he'd been passionate about since childhood. He saw his “first movie in 1910 on a vacant lot five blocks from his home” and knew from then he wanted to spend the rest of his life making movies.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP] Emmanuel Biron  Emmanuel Biron (born 29 July 1988, in Lyon) is a French sprinter.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP]
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP] List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people: Bi–Bz  "Parent article:" List of gay, lesbian or bisexual people; "Siblings:"  This is a partial list of confirmed famous people who were or are gay, lesbian or bisexual. Famous people who are simply rumored to be gay, lesbian or bisexual, are not listed.  The historical concept and definition of sexual orientation varies and has changed greatly over time; for example the word "gay" wasn't used to describe sexual orientation until the mid 20th century. A number of different classification schemes have been used to describe sexual orientation since the mid-19th century, and scholars have often defined the term "sexual orientation" in divergent ways. Indeed, several studies have found that much of the research about sexual orientation has failed to define the term at all, making it difficult to reconcile the results of different studies. However, most definitions include a psychological component (such as the direction of an individual's erotic desire) and/or a behavioural component (which focuses on the sex of the individual's sexual partner/s). Some prefer to simply follow an individual's self-definition or identity. See homosexuality and bisexuality for criteria that have traditionally denoted lesbian, gay and bisexual (LGB) people.  The high prevalence of people from the West on this list may be due to societal attitudes towards homosexuality. The Pew Research Center's 2013 Global Attitudes Survey found that there is “greater acceptance in more secular and affluent countries,” with "publics in 39 countries [having] broad acceptance of homosexuality in North America, the European Union, and much of Latin America, but equally widespread rejection in predominantly Muslim nations and in Africa, as well as in parts of Asia and in Russia. Opinion about the acceptability of homosexuality is divided in Israel, Poland and Bolivia.” Americans are divided – a majority (60 percent) believes homosexuality should be accepted, while 33 percent disagree.<ref name=":Pew" />
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP] House of Rochechouart  The House of Rochechouart (; ) is the oldest noble family in France. This powerful dynasty of the Carolingian era dates back to Foucher, supporter of Charles the Bald, who became viscount ("vicomte") of Limoges in 876. His descendants—Limoges, Rochechouart, Mortemart and Brosse—ruled over the area for several centuries, providing many different French regimes with politicians, soldiers, functionaries and other notable figures. The family is named after the town of Rochechouart.
In what city was Emmanuel Biron born? [SEP] List of Canadian women writers in French  This is a list of Canadian women writers in French who were born in Canada or whose writings in French are closely associated with that country. It was in the mid-19th century that French-speaking women began to contribute to Canadian literature, partly as a result of growing Quebec patriotism but also because of the influence of the Catholic church and developments in education. Early contributors include the novelists Laure Conan and Gabrielle Roy and the poet Blanche Lamontagne-Beauregard. Women's greatest contribution has however been since the 1960s and above all since the 1980s, triggered by increased interest in feminism. Some sources have pointed to significant differences between English-Canadian and French-Canadian literature, resulting in part from the protected language identity of the Province of Quebec where French-language radio and television and pop-stars reinforce its insularity.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP]  Yoshida was born in Nerima, Tokyo on August 9, 1960. After graduating from Waseda University, he played for Mitsubishi Motors (currently Urawa Reds) from 1983 to 1992. He played 175 games and scored 35 goals at the club.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Yu : born Yū Uezato (上里優 Uezato Yū) on November 9, 1983 in Ginowan, Okinawa Prefecture, Japan. ; Yasu : born Yasuhide Yoshida (吉田安英 Yoshida Yasuhide) on April 6, 1982 in Naha, Okinawa Prefecture, Japan.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP]  Shūichi Yoshida was born in Nagasaki, and studied Business Administration at Hosei University. He won the Bungakukai Prize for New Writers in 1997 for his story "Saigo no Musuko", and the Akutagawa Prize in 2002 (the fifth time he'd been nominated for the prize) for "Park Life". In 2002 he also won the Yamamoto Shūgorō Prize for Parade, and for winning both literary and popular prizes Yoshida was seen as a crossover writer, like Amy Yamada or Masahiko Shimada. In 2003 he wrote lyrics for the song "Great Escape" on Tomoyasu Hotei's album, 'Doberman'. His 2007 novel, Akunin, won the Osaragi Jiro Prize and the Mainichi Publishing Culture Award, and was adapted into an award-winning 2010 film by Lee Sang-il. Another novel, Taiyo wa Ugokanai has been made into a 2020 film.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP]  Yoshida was born in Tokyo as the eldest son of future Prime Minister of Japan Shigeru Yoshida, who at the time was a Japanese diplomat in Rome. His mother Yukiko, a daughter of Count Makino Nobuaki, left Tokyo soon after Ken'ichi's birth to join her husband, so he was raised at the Makino household during the first few years of his life. He started living with his parents at the age of six, when his father was posted to Qingdao, China. Thereafter he lived in Paris, London, and Tianjin (where he studied at a school for British children) before moving back to Tokyo where he graduated from secondary school. In October 1930 he enrolled at King's College of the University of Cambridge, where was interested in the works of William Shakespeare, Charles Baudelaire, and Jules Laforgue. He became a student of Goldsworthy Lowes Dickinson, but dropped out and back to Tokyo in February 1931, on Dickinson's advice that in order to devote his life to literature he should live in Japan. During the next few years he studied French at the Athénée Français in Kanda, Tokyo.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Artist. Hometown: Nishinari-ku, Osaka. Birth date: January 11, 1961. Recognizable Feature: Glasses. A graduate of Hatushiba High School, up until 1984 he went by the name Yoshinori Iwamoto (岩元 義則,). He has stated that he likes to stay home by himself and that his favorite actress is Mariko Kawana. Before he started school, he was an avid baseball player and fan and dreamed of one day becoming a Pro Baseball player. He liked to draw but has said that he didn't really read manga until he met Shimada. Nakai Yoshinori (中井 義則)
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Yugo Yoshida  Yoshida and his partner and skipper Ryunosuke Harada made their official debut at the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, China, where they edged out the host nation's Wang Weidong and Deng Daokun by a seven-point advantage for the gold medal in the men's 470 class, accumulating a net score of 17 points.  At the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, Yoshida competed again as a crew member in the men's 470 class by finishing sixth and receiving a berth from the World Championships in Barcelona, Spain. Teaming with Harada in the opening series, Yoshida mounted a spirited challenge on the fifth leg to deliver the Japanese duo a seventh spot, but fell short of the medal race with an eighteenth-place finish on 131 net points.  On February 14, 2013, Yoshida was married to his counterpart, fellow 470 sailing star, and teammate Ai Kondo at a private ceremony in Waikiki Beach, Hawaii, United States.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Ai Yoshida  At the 2008 Summer Olympics, she competed in the women's 470 class with Naoko Kamata, finishing in 14th place. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, she competed in the same event, finishing in 14th place again, with her teammate this time being Wakako Tabata.<ref name="Olympicsorg" /> At the 2016 Summer Olympics, she competed in the same event with Miho Yoshioka, finishing in 5th place.  For the 2018 Women's 470 World Championships, Yoshida teamed up with Miho Yoshioka winning gold. For the 2019 Women's 470 World Championships, Yoshida teamed up with Miho Yoshioka again, winning silver.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Yoshida  Yoshida (written: 吉田 lit. "lucky ricefield") is the 11th most common Japanese surname. A less common variant is 芳田 (lit. "fragrant ricefield"). Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Ryunosuke Harada  Harada and his partner and crew member Yugo Yoshida made their official debut at the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou, China, where they edged out the host nation's Wang Weidong and Deng Daokun by seven-points for the gold medal in the men's 470 class, accumulating a net score of 17 points.  Harada qualified to compete in the men's 470 class at the 2012 Olympic Games by finishing sixth at World Championships in Barcelona, Spain. Teaming with Yoshida in the opening series, Harada skippered a spirited challenge on the fifth leg to deliver the Japanese duo a seventh spot in that leg, but they fell short of the medal race with an eighteenth-place finish on 131 net points.
In what city was Yugo Yoshida born? [SEP] Tetsuya Matsunaga  Matsunaga qualified as a skipper for the Japanese squad in the men's 470 class at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, by placing fifteenth and receiving a berth from the World Championships in Melbourne, Australia. Teaming with crew member Taro Ueno in the eleven-race series, the Japanese duo mounted a marvelous lead in the opening leg, but came up short for the medal with a net score of 97 and a seventh-place finish in a fleet of twenty-nine boats.  At the 2014 ISAF Sailing World Championships, Matsunaga and his new partner Yugo Yoshida set a best career record with a sixth-place finish in the men's 470 class to secure their spot on the Japanese sailing team for the 2016 Summer Olympics.
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]  Montxu Miranda Díez (born 27 December 1976 in Santurce) is a Spanish pole vaulter. His personal best of 5.81 metres, achieved in September 2000 in Barcelona, is still the standing Spanish national record.
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]  Miranda was born in Bedford Hills, New York, and graduated from New York University with a Bachelor of Arts degree in Spanish, with a concentration in Latin American literature, and a Bachelor of Science degree in broadcast journalism from Brooklyn College. Additionally, he earned a geosciences/meteorology degree from Mississippi State University.
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]  Miranda was born in 1981 in Buenaventura, Colombia and was abandoned by his mother when he was one month old. At age 9, a precocious Miranda began a quest to locate his mother. He hitched rides on truck beds over the course of hundreds of miles and was able to find his uncle working at a construction site. His uncle informed him that if he was really the little boy his sister gave away, then he should have a birthmark on his leg whereas Miranda unveiled the 2-inch long circular proof. The man led him to his mother's new home, only to be abandoned again by his mother. By the time he was 12, he was working in the plantain fields. The next year, he had a full-time construction job. By the time he was 14, he was working as a cattle butcher. At age 15, Miranda took up boxing, training for a half-year before starting his amateur career. Miranda won 128 out of 132 fights, winning four Colombian national titles. Miranda won a bronze medal in the 2000 Olympic Trials in Argentina, but failed to qualify for the 2000 Colombian Olympic team.
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]  Luis Miranda (1932 in Guayaquil, Ecuador – 2016 in Guayaquil, Ecuador) was an Ecuadorian master painter. Miranda was born in 1932 to Pedro Miranda Martinez and Dolores Neira Peñafiel. Miranda's childhood memories were of harvesting honey from his family's many beehives, which they owned all along the route from Empalme to Guayaquil. Miranda was always drawing as a child, scribbling away on any paper that he could find and copying art from books that his mother had in the house. Miranda finished his primary studies in River Basin, where his parents had transferred for work related reasons. Miranda later returned to the port city to attend secondary school at the School Vicente Rocafuerte. In 1950, Miranda's passion for art led him to
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]  Miranda was born in Havana in 1959. In 1962, he immigrated with his parents to Asturias, Spain, and immigrated again in 1966 to the United States, settling in New York City. He was naturalized as an American citizen along with his father and sister in 1976. He graduated with honors from Our Lady of Mount Carmel School in Astoria, Queens. He attended Archbishop Molloy High School in Ridgewood, Queens, obtaining that school’s highest graduation award, the Pvt. Louis J. Willet Scholarship. He attended Georgetown University’s Walsh School of Foreign Service where he was the 1981 Circumnavigators Foundation Fellow, earning a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service. At Georgetown he served as the student representative on the Walsh School’s Executive Committee and as president of Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fraternity. (In 2016, he received from
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP] Montxu Miranda  Montxu Miranda Díez (born 27 December 1976 in Santurce) is a Spanish pole vaulter. His personal best of 5.81 metres, achieved in September 2000 in Barcelona, is still the standing Spanish national record .
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]
In what city was Montxu Miranda born? [SEP]
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]  Leikola was born in Jyväskylä in 1979 and lived his childhood in Kuohu, a small town near Jyväskylä. Prior to a career in stand-up comedy, Leikola studied at the University of Jyväskylä with physics as main as subject and philosophy as secondary.
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP] Antti Jokela (born 1981), Finnish ice hockey goaltender ; Juha Jokela (born 1970), Finnish playwright and scriptwriter ; Mikko Jokela (born 1980), Finnish ice hockey defenceman ; Monica Vikström-Jokela (born 1960), Finnish-Swedish television script writer and author ; Leo Jokela (1927-1975), Finnish actor Jokela is a Finnish surname, originating from the name of the town of Jokela, located 30 miles away from Helsinki. Many other locations have the same name around the country. , there are 7,000 Finnish people alive today who have this surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]  Jokela started his ice hockey career with the KalPa junior team, and was selected 96th overall in the 1998 NHL Entry Draft by the New Jersey Devils He represented various SM-liiga teams before he signed with the Devils for the 2001–02 NHL season. Jokela spent the season with the AHL Albany River Rats, and after starting the next season in the AHL, he was traded to the Vancouver Canucks for Steve Kariya, where he played his only NHL game in the 2002–03 season. After another year with the Canucks' AHL affiliate Manitoba Moose, Jokela returned to Finland and signed with HPK. He was made team captain for the 2005–06 season when the team won the SM-liiga championship. In April 2007, he signed a three-year contract with Jokerit. However, he moved to
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]  Konrad into Nyström was born in 1865 in the village of Jäähdyspohja in the municipality of Virrat in central Finland. His father was the bailiff Johan Abraham Nyström and his mother Clara Charlotta Nyström (née Vikman). After Inha's childhood years the family moved to the town of Ikaalinen and from there Inha moved to Hämeenlinna in 1877 to study in the famous Lyceum of Hämeenlinna. In addition to normal school subjects Inha also studied additional languages and journalism. Inha matriculated in 1884 and afterwards moved to Helsinki and enrolled in the University of Helsinki to study first aesthetics, Finnish language, and history only to change his majors to geology, geography, and chemistry after one year of studies. Inha never graduated but was an avid generalist and was fluent in several languages. Helsinki remained Inha's home town for the most
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]  Juhani "Jukka" Haavisto (born June 5, 1930 in Alajärvi, Finland) is a Finnish musician with the honorary title of music councilor. He has also worked as an entrepreneur in advertising business from 1959 to the 1990s, when he retired. However, he is perhaps best known for his work as a songwriter and for having played the vibraphone and the accordion in numerous bands.
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP] Juha Jokela  Juha Petteri Jokela (born 7 January 1970 in Tampere) is a Finnish playwright and scriptwriter, best known for his "Mobile Horror" play and TV series.  Jokela graduated from high school gymnasium in Tampere in 1989 and studied the literature of science and theater studies at the University of Helsinki 1990–1994 and was a student of the Theatre Academy from 1994 onwards.  Jokela is married to actress Mari Lehtonen. He has written plays such as "Fundamentalisti" (2006), performed at the Jurkka Theatre.
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP] Jokela (surname)  Jokela is a Finnish surname, originating from the name of the town of Jokela, located 30 miles away from Helsinki. Many other locations have the same name around the country. , there are 7,000 Finnish people alive today who have this surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]
In what city was Juha Jokela born? [SEP]
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP]  Bull was born on June 26, 1924 in Zion, Illinois. After years of living in Los Angeles, he moved back to Chicago in 1994 with his wife Barbara Collentine. The couple moved to the Motion Picture & Television Fund House from Chicago in September 2012. Bull fell into acting by accident. “I never gave a serious consideration about becoming an actor. As a senior in high school, I decided to study music, but a friend suggested we attend the Goodman Theater School. In two weeks the friend dropped out, but I was hooked.” There was a three-year interruption while he served as a radio operator for the Army Air Corps, but when he was discharged in 1946 he resumed his acting studies at Goodman.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP]  Richard William Bull (June 26, 1924 – February 3, 2014) was an American film, stage and television actor. He was best known for his performances as "Doc" on Voyage to the Bottom of the Sea and Nels Oleson on Little House on the Prairie.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP]  Bull began his stage career at the famous Goodman Theatre in Chicago. He said that a two-line part in The Greatest Story Ever Told "opened a lot of doors." Director George Stevens was impressed with Bull's emoting, and that "led directly to the role of an FBI agent in The Satan Bug," Bull said. He made more than 100 film and TV appearances.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP]  Richard Salisbury Bull, Jr. was born on 6 January 1913 in Wilkinsburg, Pennsylvania. Graduating from the United States Naval Academy, he was commissioned ensign on 4 June 1936. Trained as a naval aviator in 1938–39 at Naval Air Station Pensacola, Florida, he served in the fleet in 1941. He became a naval observer assigned to the American Embassy in London, England. Reporting for duty as a fighter pilot on board USS Lexington (CV-2) on 27 December 1941, he missed out on the early raids against the Japanese as his squadron VF-2 was converting from Brewster F2A Buffalos to Grumman F4F Wildcats (their place being taken by the Grumman-equipped VF-3). In the Battle of the Coral Sea on 8 May 1942, he led the escort section assigned to Lexington's Air Group Commander, Cdr. William B. Ault. After Ault and his men had dive-bombed the carrier Shokaku, scoring one hit, Bull and his wingman, Ens. John B. Bain, were attacked by Zero fighters. Bain managed to fight his way out, but Bull was never seen again. He was posthumously awarded earned the Distinguished Flying Cross.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP]  Bull was born on August 23, 1844, in New York City. He was the seventh child and youngest son of Frederic Bull (1800–1871) and Mary Huntington (née Lanman) Bull (1804–1880). Among his siblings were Elizabeth Atwater Bull (wife of merchant Augustus Oscar van Lennep), Frederic Bull, and Anna Chester Bull. His paternal grandparents were Elizabeth (née Atwater) Bull and Jireh Bull (a descendant of Rhode Island Governor Henry Bull) and his maternal grandparents were Peter Lanman and Abigail (née Trumbull) Lanman (a sister of U.S. Representative and Connecticut governor Joseph Trumbull). Through his mother, he was a first cousin of scholar Charles Rockwell Lanman. After receiving a preparatory education, he studied at the College of the City of New York, where he graduated in 1864.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP] USS Richard S. Bull  USS "Richard S. Bull" (DE-402) was a in service with the United States Navy from 1944 to 1946. She was finally sunk as a target in 1969.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP] Dane Richards  Dane O'Brian Richards (born 14 December 1983) is a Jamaican former professional footballer, who played as a winger. He spent the majority of his career with Major League Soccer club New York Red Bulls.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP] Richard Bull (aviator)  Richard Bull (14 July 1914 – 5 February 1942) was a United States Navy aviator during World War II.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP] Richard S. Ewell  Richard Stoddert Ewell (February 8, 1817 – January 25, 1872) was a career United States Army officer and a Confederate general during the American Civil War. He achieved fame as a senior commander under Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee and fought effectively through much of the war, but his legacy has been clouded by controversies over his actions at the Battle of Gettysburg and at the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House.
In what city was Richard S. Bull born? [SEP] Richard Bull  Richard Bull may refer to:
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]  Born in Paris, in the Rue Legendre (in the 17th arrondissement), Maurice Arnold de Forest was reportedly the elder of the two sons of Edward Deforest/de Forest (1848–1882), an American circus performer, and his wife, the former Juliette Arnold (1860–1882). He had a younger brother, Raymond (1880–1912). The boys' parents died in 1882, while on a professional engagement in the Ottoman Empire, of typhoid. Sent to live in an orphanage, they were adopted on 16 June 1887 by the wealthy Baroness Clara de Hirsch (née Bischoffsheim), wife of banker and philanthropist Baron Maurice de Hirsch, and given the surname de Forest-Bischoffsheim. Baron and Baroness de Hirsch had lost to pneumonia, earlier that year, their only
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]  Maurice was born the son of Baron Jules Houtart (1844-1928). He married Marcelle Jooris (1878-1924), daughter of Emile Jooris, the mayor of Vardenare, with whom he had one son. Descendants through his son are still living. He published a history of his family. From 1934 he lived in the Château de Gesves.
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]  Maurice Alphonse Jacques Fombeure (born in Jardres (Vienne) 23 September 1906; died at La Verrière (Yvelines) 1 January 1981) was a 20th-century French writer and poet. The son of an agricultural family from Poitou, he trained as a teacher at the École normale in Poitiers and then at the École normale supérieure de Saint-Cloud. He taught in Parisian lycées, including the Lycée Lavoisier, but remained always attached to his region of birth. Very active in the literary circles of the capital, he was awarded the Grand Prix for poetry by the town of Paris in 1958. A museum has been dedicated to him in Bonneuil-Matours, where his father was mayor from 1935 to 1947. It contains originals of his works as well as numerous personal effects. The Dutch composer Marjo Tal set several of Fombeure's poems to music.
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]  Maurice Broun (1906–1979) was an American ornithologist, botanist, naturalist, conservationist, and author. He was born in New York City to parents who immigrated from Romania. Both of his parents died from tuberculosis; his mother died when he was two weeks old, and his father died when he was two years old. Living in a New York City orphanage until he was about six years old, he was taken out by a Catholic family but the mother became ill and the foster father returned Maurice to the orphanage. When he was ten years old, a Jewish family became his foster family, and the family
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]  He was born in Tillières-sur-Avre, Eure département, in Normandy, from a Picard lawyer father, a member of the Saint Francis third order, and from a Parisian mother, of Burgundian ancestry. Until the age of twelve Maurice Boitel lived in Burgundy at Gevrey-Chambertin. In this beautiful province his art reflected his major love of nature, and also the feeling of joie de vivre expressed in his works. He began drawing at the age of five.
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP] Maurice Reymond de Broutelles  J. Maurice Reymond de Broutelles (born Maurice Reymond, de Broutelles is his spouse name, and sometimes also given as "de Brouteilles", 25 April 1862 – 17 November 1936) was a Swiss sculptor, painter, and engraver who worked in Paris, France.   Born in Geneva, Reymond studied in Paris at the Ecole des Beaux-Arts under Henri Chapu and Félix Joseph Barrias. In 1889, he married Caroline de Broutelles,, taking her name as his own.   Reymond had his atelier in Paris, where he frequently presented his works at expositions. At the "Expositions Universelles" in Paris in 1889 and in 1900 he was awarded a bronze and a silver medal for his works, respectively. He died in Paris at the age of 74.
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP] List of Swiss painters  A list of notable Swiss painters:
In what city was Maurice Reymond de Broutelles born? [SEP]
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]  Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez (29 December 1947 – 21 May 2012) was a Spanish military who held the rank of a General de División Médico and served as the surgeon general of the Spanish armed medical service, called the Inspector General de Sanidad de la Defensa. Montero was born in Palencia. He joined the army in the rank of a Teniente (MC) in 1972 and held several assignments at the Gómez Ulla Military Hospital. In May 2012, while participating a special NATO medical officials conference in Tel Aviv, Israel, Montero Vázquez died suddenly of heart failure. He was 64.
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]  Vázquez Montalbán was born in Barcelona on 14 June 1939. His parents did not register his birth until 27 July; many sources show 27 July or 14 July as his birth date. He studied Philosophy at the Autonomous University of Barcelona and was also a member of the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia. He spent 18 months in prison after attending a 1962 miner's strike. He began writing poetry in 1967. He is one of the Novísimos from Jose María Castellet. His poetic works until 1986 are collected in Memoria y deseo ("Memory and desire"). The same characteristic features of his poetry appear in his novels. Los mares del Sur, part of the Pepe Carvalho series, won the Planeta Award in 1979,
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]  José Manuel Martín Pérez was born on May 24, 1924 in Casavieja, Ávila, Castilla y León, Spain. He initially studied at the Teatro Español Universitario in Madrid with José Luis López Vázquez, María Jesús Valdés and Valeriano Andrés before obtaining a scholarship at the Lope de Rueda. It was there that he started working in professional theater under Alejandro Ulloa. Starting in 1942, he was also employed as a broadcaster for Radio Nacional de España. Pérez eventually received a bachelor degree in journalism.
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]  Vázquez was born in the Montevideo neighbourhood of La Teja on 17 January 1940, the fourth child of the marriage between Héctor Vázquez, a worker of ANCAP, and Elena Rosas. He had Galician ancestry as his grandparents were originally from Ourense and Santiago de Compostela, in Spain. He studied medicine at the Universidad de la República Medical School, graduating as an oncologist in 1972. In 1976, he received a grant from the French government, allowing him to obtain additional training at the Gustave Roussy Institute in Paris.
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]  Rafael Montero was born and spent his infancy in Colonia San Rafael in Mexico City. He was the son of Alicia García Betancourt and railroad engineer Rafael Montero Márquez.
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP] Montero (name)  Montero is a Spanish surname meaning the occupational name for a beater or other assistant at a hunt, from an agent derivative of monte, which, as well as meaning 'mountain', 'hill'. Notable people with the surname include:   Montero can also be used as a given name. Notable people with the given name include:
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP] List of Cuban artists  Below is a list of Cuban artists (in alphabetical order by last name) includes artists of various genres, who are notable and are either born in Cuba, of Cuban descent or who produce works that are primarily about Cuba.
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP]
In what city was Juan Manuel Montero Vázquez born? [SEP] Yul Vazquez  Yul Vazquez (born March 18, 1965) is a Cuban-American actor and musician. He has appeared in "Runaway Bride" (1999), "Bad Boys II" (2003), "War of the Worlds" (2005), "American Gangster" (2007), "The A-Team" (2010), "Captain Phillips" (2013), "The Infiltrator" (2016), "Midnight, Texas" (2017–2018), "Russian Doll" (2019), and "Severance" (2022). Vazquez used to be the lead guitarist for melodic rock bands Urgent and Diving for Pearls.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP]  Evan Abraham (born 1901, date of death 27 Nov 1990) was a footballer who played in the English Football League for Merthyr Town and Walsall. He was born in Swansea, Wales.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP]  Abraham was born on 10 January 1955 in Yilo Krobo in the Eastern Region of Ghana. He comes from Somanya in the Eastern Region. He attended the University of Ghana and obtained a Diploma in Public administration. He obtained his MBA (Post Graduate School of Management, Paris, France) in 2006, acquired his BSc (Administration) UG in the year 2007 and had his EMGL (GIMPA) in the year 2008.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP]  Born in Loughor, Wales, Evan Roberts was the younger of two sons born to Henry and Hannah Roberts. Raised in a Calvinistic Methodist home, he was a devout child who attended church regularly and memorized scripture at night. From the ages of 11 to 23, he worked in the coal mines with his father. Reports indicate that an explosion occurred as he assisted his father in the mine, scorching the Bible he diligently read. Roberts then spent time working for his uncle as a blacksmith's apprentice in Pontarddulais. Roberts was widely known as a young man who spent many hours praying each week both personally and at group prayer meetings. Several character studies have noted his unusual zeal and
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP]  Abraham was born in the Wynberg area of Cape Town and grew up in Rondebosch. His father was a naval commander who had arrived in South Africa from Hungary before World War II to escape antisemitism. Abraham attended South African College High School. He participated in school productions and ran a film society. He later received a Spectemur Agendo Award from the school in 2019 for his contributions to civil liberties and the performing arts. Abraham studied Law at the University of Cape Town, but has said he was "hardly ever at lectures because there was something more important in those days" as a student
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Ruth Taubert Seeger, athlete and teacher, was born in Evan.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Evan Abraham  Evan Abraham (born 1901, date of death 27 Nov 1990) was a footballer who played in the English Football League for Merthyr Town and Walsall. He was born in Swansea, Wales.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Abraham (surname)  Abrahams is a surname. It can be of Jewish, English, French, German, Dutch, Irish, Welsh, Cornish, Breton, Lebanese, Syrian and other origins. It is derived from the Hebrew personal name "Avraham", borne by the biblical patriarch Abraham, revered by Jews as a founding father of the Jewish people (Gen. 11-25), and by Muslims as founder of all Semitic peoples (see Abraham). The name is explained in Genesis 17:5 as being derived from the Hebrew "av hamon goyim" "father of a multitude of nations". It was commonly used as a given name among Christians in the Middle Ages, and has always been a popular Jewish given name. The English name "Abram" is often a short form of Abraham, but it can also be a shortened version of "Adburgham", which comes from a place name. As an Irish name, it was adopted as an approximation (in sound, not meaning) of the Gaelic name "Mac an Bhreitheamhan" "son of the judge". The German name "Brahm" is often a short form of Abraham, but it can also be a topographic name signifying someone who lived near a bramble thicket (from the Middle High German "brāme"). The name "Braham" has been used as an Anglicization of both "Abraham" and its patronymic "Abrahams" by Ashkenazi Jews in the British Isles (see Braham). "Abraham" has also been used as an Anglicization of the equivalent Arabic surname "Ibrāhīm" (see Ibrahim).
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Evan  Evan is both an English and Welsh male given name derived from "Iefan", a Welsh form for the name John. In other languages it could be compared to "Ivan", "Ian", and "Juan"; the name John itself is derived from the ancient Hebrew name Yəhôḥānān, which means "Yahweh is gracious". Evan is also the shortened version of the Greek names "Evangelos" (meaning "good messenger") and "Evander" (meaning "good man"). The name is also sparingly given to women, as with actress Evan Rachel Wood. It may be encountered as a surname, of which Evans is the most common version.  Other languages also assign meaning to Evan as a word or name. It is related to the Gaelic word "Eóghan" meaning "youth" or "young warrior", and means "right-handed" in Scots. literally means "rock". The old English translation of the name "Evan" could also be interpreted as "Heir of the Earth" or "The King".
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Abraham ibn Ezra  Abraham ben Meir Ibn Ezra ( "ʾAḇrāhām ben Mēʾīr ʾībən ʾĒzrāʾ", often abbreviated as ; "Ibrāhim al-Mājid ibn Ezra"; also known as Abenezra or simply Ibn Ezra, 1089 / 1092 – 27 January 1164 / 28 January 1167) was one of the most distinguished Jewish biblical commentators and philosophers of the Middle Ages. He was born in Tudela, Taifa of Zaragoza and present-day Navarre.
In what city was Evan Abraham born? [SEP] Alice Claypoole Vanderbilt  Alice Claypoole Vanderbilt (; November 11, 1845 – April 24, 1934) was the wife of Cornelius Vanderbilt II and reigned as the matriarch of the Vanderbilt family for over 60 years.<ref name=obit/>
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP] Background Carlos Nieto is a fictional FDNY paramedic on the television series Third Watch. He was portrayed by Anthony Ruivivar and was the only paramedic to stay for the duration of the series. Carlos Nieto was born on May 11, 1975 (although in one episode, "Band of Brothers," he claims he was born in 1977) in Hawaii. He is of Filipino heritage and was originally named Adam, and had an older brother named Christian. After their parents split up, Christian stayed with their mother, while their father took Adam to New York. Their father was the victim of a hit-and-run vehicle accident, which killed him. Young Carlos was found holding
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP]  Carlos Nakatani was born in the La Merced neighborhood of Mexico City in 1934 to a Mexican mother, Ema Avíla Espinoza and Yoshigei Nakatani Moriguchi, who immigrated from Japan to Mexico. His father made his fortune with the creation of a peanut snack called “cacahuates japoneses” (Japanese peanuts), which he originally sold in the La Merced market and later established the Nipon company. These peanuts remain popular in the Mexican capital to this day. While valuing his Latin heritage through his life by enjoying the capital’s nightlife from the 1950s to 1970s and reading Latin American authors such as José Lezama Lima
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP]  Rodolfo Nieto was born at home in Oaxaca on July 13, 1936. His father Rodolfo Nieto Gris, a medical epidemiologist, left the home mysteriously around 1949. After his disappearance, the family became destitute; his mother, Josefina Labastida de Nieto, a homemaker and seamstress, moved to Mexico City with Rodolfo, his younger brother Carlos Nieto, a poet—who was later murdered due to his political associations—after Rodolfo died, formed a new family with half brother Ignacio Saucedo. While Rodolfo attended public school, the art professor and dancer Santos Balmori on behalf of the Mexican Government, interviewed students for the Mexican folklorico. After Rodolfo auditioned, Balmori asked the teenager if he could do anything else. Rodolfo
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP] Alfonso Nieto (born 1991), Mexican footballer ; Alfredo Diez Nieto, Cuban composer and centenarians (1918-2021) ; Amalia Nieto (1907–2003), Uruguayan painter, sculptor, and engraver ; Ángel Nieto (1947–2017), Spanish motorcycle racer ; Antonio Jesús López Nieto (born 1958), Spanish football referee ; Claudio Nieto Jiménez (born 1977), Chilean ski mountaineer and triathlete ; Daniel Nieto Vela, (born 1991), Spanish footballer ; David Nieto (1654&ndash;1728), Jewish Hakham in London ; Domingo Nieto (1803&ndash;1844), President of Peru ; Enrique Peña Nieto (born 1966), President of Mexico ; Enrique Nieto (architect) (1880 or 1883&ndash;1954), Spanish architect ; Ernesto Nieto (born 1940), founder of the National Hispanic Institute ; Federico Nieto (born 1983), Argentine footballer ; Fonsi Nieto (born 1978), Spanish motorcycle racer ; Jamie Nieto (born 1976), American high jumper ; Jan Nieto (born 1981), Filipino singer ; José
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP]  Carlos Nieto (born 25 June 1976) is an Italian Argentine international rugby union player. Nieto made his Italy debut against England in the 2002 Six Nations but did not manage to establish himself as an automatic choice in the front row. He was recalled by Berbizier to the national set-up for the 2005 Summer tour of Argentina and Australia. He was one of Italy's best players during the 2006 Six nations championship even though he missed the final game against Scotland because of injury. In the 2006 he signed for Gloucester Rugby. In 2009, Nieto signed for Saracens. He started for Saracens as they won their first Premiership title in 2011. On May 2, 2013, Nieto announced he will retire at the end of the 2012/13 season.
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP] Carlos Nieto (footballer)  Carlos Nieto Herrero (born 6 May 1996) is a Spanish footballer who plays for Real Zaragoza. Mainly a left back, he also plays as a central defender or midfielder.
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP]
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP] Carlos Nieto (rugby union)  Carlos Nieto (born 25 June 1976) is an Italian Argentine international rugby union player.  Nieto made his Italy debut against England in the 2002 Six Nations but did not manage to establish himself as an automatic choice in the front row.  He was recalled by Berbizier to the national set-up for the 2005 Summer tour of Argentina and Australia. He was one of Italy's best players during the 2006 Six nations championship even though he missed the final game against Scotland because of injury.  In the 2006 he signed for Gloucester Rugby.  In 2009, Nieto signed for Saracens. He started for Saracens as they won their first Premiership title in 2011.  On May 2, 2013, Nieto announced he will retire at the end of the 2012/13 season.
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP]
In what city was Carlos Nieto born? [SEP] List of Third Watch characters  "Third Watch" is an American television drama series which first aired on NBC from 1999 to 2005 and followed the lives of an ensemble cast of characters portraying police officers of the New York City Police Department (NYPD) and firefighters and paramedics of the New York City Fire Department (FDNY).
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP]  Andrew James Keeley (born 16 September 1956 in Basildon) is an English former professional footballer who played for Tottenham Hotspur, Sheffield United, Scunthorpe United and represented England at youth level.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP]  Keeley joined Tottenham Hotspur as an apprentice in January 1974. The central defender made his senior debut against Birmingham City on 20 October 1976. Keeley made a total of six appearances in the season of 1976-77 in which the Spurs were relegated. In December 1977 he was granted a free transfer to Sheffield United and went on to feature in 28 fixtures. After leaving Bramall Lane on a free transfer he signed for Scunthorpe United in July 1981 and made a further 77 appearances and scored once from the penalty spot.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP]  Keeley was born in Bristol, the son of a local clergyman.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP]  Keeley was born in 1990 and raised in Tullamore in County Offaly in Ireland. In his earlier years he had an interest in establishing a music career. Whilst attending Coláiste Choilm Secondary School, his interest in acting developed and he expanded his acting skills following his failure to complete his Leaving Certificate exams. In his early 20s, he shared his time living between Tullamore and Dublin. During the making of The Cured, he became a vegetarian. In 2016, he left Dublin to reside partly in Iceland.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP]  Glenn Matthew Keeley (born 1 September 1954 in Barking, Essex) is an English retired footballer who played as a central defender in the Football League.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP] Andy Keeley  Andrew James Keeley (born 16 September 1956 in Basildon) is an English former professional footballer who played for Tottenham Hotspur, Sheffield United, Scunthorpe United and represented England at youth level.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP] Keely Andrew  Keely Andrew (born 2 December 1994) is a professional surfer from Australia.  Andrew finished second in the Australian Junior Surfing Titles.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP] Keeley Hawes  Claire Julia Hawes (born 10 February 1976), known professionally as Keeley Hawes, is an English actress. After beginning her career in a number of literary adaptations, including "Our Mutual Friend" (1998) and "Tipping the Velvet" (2002), Hawes rose to fame for her portrayal of Zoe Reynolds in the BBC series "Spooks" (2002–2004), followed by her co-lead performance as DI Alex Drake in "Ashes to Ashes" (2008–2010). She is also known for her roles in Jed Mercurio's "Line of Duty" as DI Lindsay Denton (2014–2016) and in BBC One drama "Bodyguard" (2018) in which she played Home Secretary Julia Montague. Hawes is a three-time BAFTA TV Award nominee, having been nominated for the British Academy Television Award for Best Actress for her roles as Lindsay Denton and Julia Montague, and a British Academy Television Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Dorothy Wick in the drama "Mrs Wilson".  Hawes has had leading roles in the 2010 revival of "Upstairs, Downstairs", the limited series "The Casual Vacancy" (2015), "The Missing" (2016), the ITV comedy-drama "The Durrells" (2016–2019), the Russell T Davies drama serial "It's a Sin" (2021) and in "The Midwich Cuckoos" (2022). She has also acted as an executive producer on ITV drama "Honour" (2020) and comedy-drama "Finding Alice" (2021), starring in them both.  Hawes has appeared in films, including "Death at a Funeral" (2007), "High-Rise" (2015), "Misbehaviour" (2020) and "To Olivia" (2021), in which she portrays actress Patricia Neal. She has also provided the voice of Lara Croft in "Tomb Raider" video games, including "", "", "", and "Lara Croft and the Guardian of Light".
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP] Thursday (band)  Thursday is an American post-hardcore band, formed in New Brunswick, New Jersey, in 1997. The band currently consists of Geoff Rickly (lead vocals), Tom Keeley (lead guitar, backing vocals), Steve Pedulla (rhythm guitar, backing vocals), Tim Payne (bass), and Tucker Rule (drums).  Thursday released their debut album, "Waiting", in late 1999 with original guitarist Bill Henderson, who left the band in 2000 and was replaced by Steve Pedulla. The band gained popularity with the release of their second album, "Full Collapse", in 2001, and released their third album and major label debut, "War All the Time", in 2003, which reached number seven on the US "Billboard" Top 200 Albums chart. Thursday released their fourth album, "A City by the Light Divided", in 2006, and two further albums, "Common Existence" (2009) and "No Devolución" (2011), before announcing an indefinite hiatus in 2011. In a January 2013 interview, Geoff Rickly confirmed that the band had officially disbanded. However, the band announced a reunion in 2016 and performed a series of shows within the next few years. In October 2018, the band announced their reunion would conclude with a performance at Saint Vitus in Brooklyn, New York on March 17, 2019; despite this, Thursday had played more shows by the end of 2019, and resumed activity as a band in the fall of 2021 with a series of live dates, including an appearance at Riot Fest in Chicago.  The band has been considered an influential band of the post-hardcore music scene in the 2000s, and is credited as one of the key bands to popularize the darker emo sound and screaming vocals which came to prominence at the time.
In what city was Andy Keeley born? [SEP] Barbara Keeley  Barbara Mary Keeley (born 26 March 1952) is a British Labour Party politician who has served as the Member of Parliament (MP) for Worsley and Eccles South, previously Worsley, since 2005. A member of the Labour Party, she has served as Shadow Minister for Arts and Civil Society since 2022. She previously served as Deputy Leader of the House of Commons from 2009 to 2010 and served in Jeremy Corbyn’s Shadow Cabinet as Shadow Minister for Mental Health and Social Care from 2016 to 2020.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]  García (birth name: Fernando Luis García Ledesma ) was born in Utuado, Puerto Rico where he received his primary and secondary education. He moved to San Juan where he was hired by the Texas Company as a file clerk.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]  Fernando García (born July 4, 1930 in Santiago, Chile) is a Chilean composer. Active since 1956 he has done orchestral music, chamber music, etc. He studied with Juan Orrego-Salas and Gustavo Becerra-Schmidt, among others. His style is strongly influenced by serialism and aleatoric procedures. He also played a role in the beginnings of electroacoustic music in Chile, after a trip he made to France in the early 1950s where he heard musique concrete. He worked for the Instituto de Extensión Musical of the University of Chile, and in 1962 he premiered his most important piece, the cantata América Insurrecta, which won an award at the Chilean Music Festival. After the Chilean coup-d'état, he was forced into exile, first in Perú (1973-1979), and then in Cuba (1979-1990). He returned to his country in 1989 and joined the Faculty of Arts of the University of Chile where he taught musicology until 2009. In 2002, he received the National Prize for Musical Arts.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]  García was born on January 19, 1982 in Málaga, Costa del Sol, Andalusia, Spain. He attended the Colegio Público Ramón Simonet for his primary education. As a teenager, García played indoor soccer and was his school team's goalkeeper. He was discovered at seventeen (17) years old by Manuel Beltrán, a director of a talent management agency in Málaga, while García was commencing studies for a business management degree at the University of Malaga. His foray into modeling and beauty pageant competitions, and then consequently acting, was accidental and with much hesitation at first. García's parents, especially his mother, wanted him to pursue and complete his degree before anything else. His parents did not want him to get distracted from his studies.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]  Garcia was born in Omaha, Nebraska. His mother, Dora Mesa, is a Cuban-born professor, and his father, Humberto Garcia, is a Chilean-born doctor. He grew up in San Juan Capistrano in Orange County, California and went to San Clemente High School. He wrestled in high school, where he was given the nickname "Baby-Faced Killer". As a senior, he was selected by the faculty as "Triton of the Year", the highest award given to a graduating senior. Garcia graduated from the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) in 1995 as a Communication Studies major. He also studied acting at the Beverly Hills Playhouse acting school.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]  Fernando García Roel (14 August 1921 – 26 February 2009) was a Mexican chemical engineer. He served as the second rector of the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education (ITESM, 1960–1984). García Roel was born in Monterrey, Nuevo León, into a family composed by Mario A. García and María Roel, sister of prominent historian Santiago Roel. He received a bachelor's degree in Chemical Engineering from the National Autonomous University of Mexico (1943) and a master's degree in the same discipline from the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1948). In 1966 he was given the University of Wisconsin–Madison's Distinguished Service Award and in 1984 the Víctor Márquez Domínguez Prize of the Mexican Institute of Chemical Engineers. He was conferred an honorary doctorate by the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1979. One of the streets crossing the main campus of the Monterrey Institute of Technology is named in his honor.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP] Fernando Garcia Ponce  Fernando Garcia Ponce (1933–1987) was a Mexican architect and abstract artist who belonged to the Generación de la Ruptura. García Ponce is best known for his abstract paintings and collages, most of which utilize structured and geometric forms rather than organic shapes.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP] Fernando Garcia (soccer, born 1999)  Fernando Garcia (born May 22, 1999) is an American soccer player who currently plays for FC Tucson in USL League One.
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]
In what city was Fernando García born? [SEP]
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]  William Franklin Switzler (March 16, 1819 – May 24, 1906) was an American lawyer, journalist, publisher, and historian from Columbia, Missouri.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]  He married Mary Jane Royall (1820-1879) of Columbia, Missouri in 1843, and they had three children.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]  William F. Switzler was born in Fayette County, Kentucky. In 1826 his family moved to Fayette, Missouri. He studied law under Abiel Leonard and James Sidney Rollins, and practiced it for several years. In 1841 he started editing the Columbia Patriot eventually going into journalism business. He printed the Columbia Statesman; later in his life he edited the Chillicothe Constitution and Missouri Democrat (Boonville, Mo.). During the American Civil War, in 1863, he was appointed a provost marshal for the 9th District of Missouri. He served as a State Representative for Boone County, Missouri and twice, in 1866 and 1888 ran for Congress, unsuccessfully. In 1885 he was appointed Chief of the Bureau of Statistics in Washington, D.C. He published Switzler's illustrated history of Missouri, from 1541 to 1877 in 1879, and in 1882 — a History of Boone County, Missouri. He died in Columbia, Missouri, aged 87. His papers are preserved by the State Historical Society of Missouri.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]  Switzler Hall on the David R. Francis Quadrangle at the University of Missouri is named after him.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP] Switzler, William F., et al. Switzler's illustrated history of Missouri, from 1541 to 1877. St. Louis: C. R. Barns. 1879. ; Switzler, William F. History of Boone County, Missouri. Written and comp. from the most authentic official and private sources; including a history of its townships, towns, and villages. Together with a condensed history of Missouri; the city of St. Louis ... biographical sketches and portraits of prominent citizens. St. Louis, Western Historical Company, 1882.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP] William Franklin Switzler  William Franklin Switzler (March 16, 1819 – May 24, 1906) was an American lawyer, journalist, publisher, and historian from Columbia, Missouri.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP] Royall H. Switzler  Royall H. Switzler (born September 27, 1938 in Boston) is an American politician who served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives from 1973 to 1975 and again from 1977 to 1986. He was a candidate for Governor of Massachusetts in 1986 until he dropped out after inaccuracies about his military record were revealed.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP] Henry Miller Shreve  Henry Miller Shreve (October 21, 1785 – March 6, 1851) was the American inventor and steamboat captain who opened the Mississippi, Ohio, and Red rivers to steamboat navigation. Shreveport, Louisiana, is named in his honor.  Shreve was also instrumental in breaking the Fulton-Livingston monopoly on steamboat traffic on the lower Mississippi. He was the first riverboat captain to travel the Ohio and Mississippi rivers to New Orleans and back, as well as the first to bring a keelboat from the Ohio River up the Mississippi to the Fever River in Illinois. Shreve also made significant improvements to the steamboat and the steam engine, such as separate boilers to power side paddlewheels independently, horizontal cylinders, and multiple decks to allow for passengers and entertainment.
In what city was William Franklin Switzler born? [SEP]
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]  György was born Jewish. He was a great friend of the former water polo player and distinguished Italian actor Bud Spencer.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]  György Kárpáti (June 23, 1935 &ndash; June 17, 2020) was a Hungarian water polo player who competed at the 1952 Summer Olympics, 1956 Summer Olympics, 1960 Summer Olympics, and 1964 Summer Olympics. He is one of eight male athletes who won four or more Olympic medals in water polo, and one of ten male athletes who won three Olympic gold medals in water polo.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]  Kárpáti was born in Budapest, and was a member of the Hungarian team which won the gold medal in the 1952 tournament. He played five matches and scored four goals. Four years later he was a member of the Hungarian team which won again the gold medal in the 1956 Olympic tournament. He played six matches and scored at least six goals (not all scorers are known). At the 1960 Games he won the bronze medal with the Hungarian team. He played four matches and scored five goals. His last Olympic tournament was in Tokyo 1964 where he won his third gold medal. He played six matches and scored four goals for the Hungarian team. Kárpáti studied and gained a degree in law, but he never practised it, he also got a degree in coaching in 1964, which he used when he was assistant coach to Dezső Gyarmati for the national team between 1970-80. Their main success was winning the gold medal at the 1976 Summer Olympics. In 1982, Kárpáti was elected in to the International Swimming Hall of Fame, and from 1994 he became a member of the Association of Immortal Hungarian Athletes.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]  György Kárpáti received his first degree in medicine in 1957 and his second degree in film directing in 1964. He was employed until 1991 as a film director by the MAFILM-MOVI studios of the Hungarian state film industry. As a freelance producer-director he was responsible for more than 300 productions for the Hungarian Television Network, including comedies, music shows, documentaries, scientific programmes, live broadcasts, variety shows, and programmes on jazz and the cinema. From 1973-83 he was commissioned by the International Committee of the Red Cross to shoot documentaries in 80 countries over five continents. From his graduation in 1964 until his retirement in 1999 he taught non-fiction directing and editing at the Academy of Drama and Film (SzFF) in Budapest.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]  George Barati (born György Braunstein) (April 3, 1913, Győr, Hungary - June 22, 1996, San Jose, California) was a Hungarian-American cellist, composer, and conductor. Barati studied under Zoltán Kodály and Leo Weiner while a student at the Liszt Academy of Music in the 1930s, and became widely known as a performer throughout Hungary, both as a soloist and with the Pro Ideale Quartet. He immigrated to the United States in 1938, where he studied composition at Princeton under Roger Sessions and taught cello performance until 1943. He then relocated to California, where he was cellist with the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra (1946–50) and worked with chamber ensembles. In 1950, Barati moved to Oahu, where he became the conductor of the Honolulu Symphony Orchestra, a position he held from 1950 to 1967. He also began doing international tours as a conductor. He returned to California in 1968 and was co-director of the Villa Montalvo Center for Art in Saratoga, California, from 1971 to 1980 he directed the Santa Cruz County Symphony Orchestra.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP] List of Hungarian Jews  This is a list of Hungarian Jews. There has been a Jewish presence in today's Hungary since Roman times (bar a brief expulsion during the Black Death), long before the actual Hungarian nation. Jews fared particularly well under the Ottoman Empire, and after emancipation in 1867. At its height, the Jewish population of historical Hungary numbered more than 900,000, but the Holocaust and emigration, especially during the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, has reduced that to around 100,000, most of whom live in Budapest and its suburbs.  This is a list of anyone who could be reliably described as "Hungarian" and is of significant Jewish heritage (ethnic or religious). See List of Hungarian Americans for descendants of Hungarian émigrés born in America, a significant number of whom are of Jewish ancestry.  The names are presented in the Western European convention of the given name preceding the family name, whereas in Hungary, the reverse is true, as in most Asian cultures.
In what city was György Kárpáti born? [SEP]
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]  Szymon Szurmiej was born on 18 June 1923 in Lutsk, Volhynian Voivodeship as a son of Polish father Jan Szurmiej and Jewish mother, Rebeka (Ryfka) née Biterman. Szurmiej debuted as an actor in 1951 at the Polish Theater in Wrocław. In 1969 he moved to Warsaw, where he has become a general manager of the Jewish Theater. Szymon Szurmiej was a member and activist of different Jewish organizations in Poland and world. In 2007 Polish writer Krystyna Gucewicz-Przybora wrote a Szurmiej's biography. Szymon Szurmiej died on 16 July 2014 in Warsaw.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]  Szymon Symcha Szurmiej (18 June 1923 − 16 July 2014) was a Polish actor, director, and general manager of the Ester Rachel Kamińska and Ida Kamińska State Jewish Theater in Warsaw. He was a director of the Yiddish Theater of Warsaw. Since July 2004, he has been an honorary citizen of Warsaw. Member of the World Jewish Congress.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]  Szymon Majewski (born on June 1, 1967, in Warsaw) is a Polish journalist, showman, radio and television presenter and professional television and film actor. Majewski is a graduate of Edward Dembowski High School in Warsaw. He has a wife, Magdalena, and two children.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]  Born in Połczyn Zdrój, Pawłowski made his professional debut in Poland's by appearing against Lech Poznań on March 10, 2007. On 31 August 2017 he was loaned to Bruk-Bet Termalica Nieciecza.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]  Warsaw and all of Poland. Four days later he was ordained a deacon, and on 22 February of the same year - as priest. On 21 September 1970, he was appointed inspector of the Orthodox Theological Seminary in Warsaw, where he was previously employed as a foreign language teacher and catechesis lecturer. A year later, he became the chairman of the Publishing and Press Commission at the Metropolitan Council and its secretary. In the period from 1971, as a representative of the PAKP or a member of its delegation, he participated in numerous theological conferences and inter-church meetings. In 1973, he was elevated to the rank of ihumen, and on
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP] Szymon Kataszek  Szymon Kataszek (1898–1943) (born Boruch Szymon Kataszek), was a Polish-Jewish composer, bandleader, pianist, a pioneer of Polish jazz. Born in Warsaw 1898; studied piano at the Warsaw Music Institute and Rome's St. Cecilia Academy. He returned to Poland and first worked as an organist in St. Trinity Church, while also playing piano in nightclubs.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP] Henryk Gold  Henryk Gold (19029 January 1977 in New York City, United States) was a Polish-born American composer, arranger, and orchestra director.  He was born in Warsaw to a musical family: his mother Helena was of the famous Warsaw klezmer Melodysta family, and his father Michael was a flautist in the Warsaw Opera Orchestra. He was the brother of Artur Gold. He studied in Warsaw, his teachers including Stanisław Barcewicz (violin).  When silent movies in Poland lost popularity following the arrival of Al Jolson's "The Jazz Singer", (known in Yiddish as "The Singing Buffoon"), thousands of Polish musicians who'd played in the movie theaters lost their livelihood; they began to create large and small orchestras playing dance music and jazz. Artur and Henryk Gold, the brothers Jerzy and Stanislaw Petersburski, Zygmunt Karasinski and Szymon Kataszek, Kazimierz Englard, Julian Halicki were the pioneers; Henryk Gold was chief among them, giving concerts at the famous Ziemiańska Cafe on Kredytowa Street and the revue theater "Morskie-Oko" on Sienkiewicz Street. He ran the nightclub "Adria" with his brother on Moniuszki Street.  Gold wrote hundreds of tangos, polkas, foxtrots, and waltzes, interpolating Jewish motifs. His hits included "Tęsknota" ("Nostalgia", in Yiddish "Benkshaft"); "Jaśminy" (Jasmine); "Jak ja się dziś upiję" ("When I Get Drunk Today", in Yiddish "Az 'Khvel Mikh Haynt Onshikirn"); "Moja pierswsza i ostatnia" ("My First and Last", Yiddish "Mayn Ershte Un Letste"); "Szkoda twoich łez" ("Too bad about your tears", Yiddish "A Shod Dayne Trern"), and others.  During the Second World War, he and fellow composer Jerzy Petersburski toured the Soviet Union with a large jazz orchestra. In 1942 he left the Soviet Union with the Polish Anders Army, went to Israel, where he wrote songs "Arcenu ha-ktantonet", "Ruakh", "Shalom" and lastly emigrated to New York City, United States.<ref name=rad/>
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP] Kazimierz Krukowski  Kazimierz Krukowski (born 2 February 1901 in Łódź — died 24 December 1984 in Warsaw), professionally known as Lopek, was a Polish cabaret performer and writer, revue and film actor.
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP]
In what city was Szymon Kataszek born? [SEP] History of the Jews in Poland  The history of the Jews in Poland dates back at least 1,000 years. For centuries, Poland was home to the largest and most significant Ashkenazi Jewish community in the world. Poland was a principal center of Jewish culture, because of the long period of statutory religious tolerance and social autonomy which ended after the Partitions of Poland in the 18th century. During World War II there was a nearly complete genocidal destruction of the Polish Jewish community by Nazi Germany and its collaborators of various nationalities, during the German occupation of Poland between 1939 and 1945, called the Holocaust. Since the fall of communism in Poland, there has been a renewed interest in Jewish culture, featuring an annual Jewish Culture Festival, new study programs at Polish secondary schools and universities, and the opening of Warsaw's Museum of the History of Polish Jews.  From the founding of the Kingdom of Poland in 1025 until the early years of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth created in 1569, Poland was the most tolerant country in Europe. Poland became a shelter for Jews persecuted and expelled from various European countries and the home to the world's largest Jewish community of the time. According to some sources, about three-quarters of the world's Jews lived in Poland by the middle of the 16th century.  In 1939 at the start of World War II, Poland was partitioned between Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union (see Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact). One-fifth of the Polish population perished during World War II; the 3,000,000 Polish Jews murdered in The Holocaust, who constituted 90% of Polish Jewry, made up half of all Poles killed during the war. and passive refusal to inform on them, to indifference, blackmail,<ref name="PCHR"/> and in extreme cases, participation in pogroms such as the Jedwabne pogrom.<ref name="Lukas"/>  In the post-war period, many of the approximately 200,000 Jewish survivors registered at Central Committee of Polish Jews or CKŻP (of whom 136,000 arrived from the Soviet Union) After the fall of the Communist regime in 1989, the situation of Polish Jews became normalized and those who were Polish citizens before World War II were allowed to renew Polish citizenship. The contemporary Polish Jewish community is estimated to have between 10,000 and 20,000 members.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] 1) REDIRECT:David A. Granger
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP]  David Granger commenced his football career in Victoria where he played trial games with St Kilda.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP]  David Granger (born 23 January 1955) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for the St Kilda Football Club in the Victorian Football League (VFL) and Port Adelaide Football Club in the South Australian National Football League (SANFL).
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP]  Grange was born on April 9, 1925, and grew up in Lake Ronkonkoma, New York. He joined the United States Army in June 1943 and served as an enlisted parachute infantryman in Europe, taking part in the Rome-Arno, Southern France, Rhineland, Ardennes, and Central Europe Campaigns as a member of the 517th Parachute Infantry Regiment. In 1949, he departed the 82d Airborne Division to attend Officer Candidate School. He was commissioned a second lieutenant of Infantry in 1950, with an initial assignment with the 187th Airborne Infantry Regiment in Korea.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP]  Michel Granger, born 13 October 1946 in Roanne, is a French visual artist. His childhood took place in Arsenal County, a period that will strongly mark his artistic work. But encounters and successive travels took him to new horizons and far from his homeland: during the 1970s, his career became international. Granger is known for his work associated with the musician Jean-Michel Jarre.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] David A. Granger  David Arthur Granger (born 15 July 1945) is a retired military officer who served as the 9th President of Guyana from May 2015 to August 2020. He served for a time as Commander of the Guyana Defence Force and subsequently as National Security Adviser from 1990 to 1992. He was Leader of the Opposition in the National Assembly of Guyana from 2012 to 2015.  Granger stood as the opposition coalition's presidential candidate in the November 2011 general election but was defeated. He was elected as President in the May 2015 general election. He lost a vote of confidence on 21 December 2018 that led to a snap election.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] David Granger (footballer)  David Granger (born 23 January 1955) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for the St Kilda Football Club in the Victorian Football League (VFL) and Port Adelaide Football Club in the South Australian National Football League (SANFL).
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] David Granger  David Granger may refer to:
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] Sandra Granger  Sandra Marie Granger (née Chan-A-Sue; born 1947) is a retired Guyanese academic and civil servant who was the First Lady of Guyana, as the wife of President David A. Granger.
In what city was David Granger born? [SEP] Gordon Granger  Gordon Granger (November 6, 1821 – January 10, 1876) was a career U.S. Army officer and a Union general during the American Civil War, where he distinguished himself at the Battle of Chickamauga.  Granger is best remembered for his part in the Battle of Chickamauga and the Battle of Chattanooga and for issuing General Order No. 3 on June 19, 1865, in Galveston, Texas, further informing residents of, and enforcing, Abraham Lincoln's Emancipation Proclamation which set all Confederate states' slaves free on January 1, 1863. June 19 is now commemorated by the federal holiday of Juneteenth.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]  De Roulet was born in Los Angeles, California. He lived there until moving to Manhasset, New York in 1954.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]  John Anthony Garnet Man (born 15 May 1941) is a British historian and travel writer. His special interests are China, Mongolia and the history of written communication.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]  Mant was born in Purley, Surrey on 11 September 1919. His father George was a solicitor who represented the tenth generation of members of the legal profession in the family. Mant was educated at Denstone College before choosing not to follow in his father's footsteps, and in 1939 joined an undergraduate course at St Mary's Hospital Medical School in London on a rugby exhibition. While studying Mant worked as an ambulance driver and plane spotter, and after graduating in 1943 started work in obstetrics and gynaecology at St Mary's. In January 1944 Mant was called up for service in the British Army, and joined the Royal Army Medical Corps. He worked in military hospitals in France and Germany after crossing the English Channel soon after D-Day in June 1944.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]  Clempert was born in Siberia on April 19, 1878, in a city Edwin A. Dawes indicated as “Poletavarr.” He started working in Farroni's Circus as a wrestler, but became famous as “The Man They Cannot Hang” for the acts of escapology he managed to perform after an assistant had hung him. In 1903, however, one of his hanging performances failed in Rochester, New York, and the accident nearly costed Clempert his life. He abandoned the hanging tricks and joined the Warren American Circus, touring India and the Middle East.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]  Lieutenant Colonel John Francis Mant OBE (8 February 1897 – 19 November 1985) was an Australian solicitor. He was born at Darling Point to solicitor William Hall Mant and Frances Gordon, née McCrae, a granddaughter of Georgiana McCrae. His godfather was A. B. Paterson. Mant attended Sydney Grammar School and from 1914 worked in Queensland as a station hand. He enlisted in the Australian Imperial Force on 11 April 1916 and sailed for England in May, attached to the Cyclist Training Battalion. He served in France with the 3rd Divisional Cyclist Company from December 1916 and then with the 1st Infantry Battalion from January 1917. Promoted lieutenant in February 1918 and mentioned in despatches in 1919, he remained in Britain after the
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP] John Adams  John Adams (October 30, 1735 – July 4, 1826) was an American statesman, attorney, diplomat, writer, and Founding Father who served as the second president of the United States from 1797 to 1801. Before his presidency, he was a leader of the American Revolution that achieved independence from Great Britain, and during the war served as a diplomat in Europe. He was twice elected vice president, serving from 1789 to 1797 in a prestigious role with little power. Adams was a dedicated diarist and regularly corresponded with many important contemporaries, including his wife and adviser Abigail Adams as well as his friend and rival Thomas Jefferson.  A lawyer and political activist prior to the Revolution, Adams was devoted to the right to counsel and presumption of innocence. He defied anti-British sentiment and successfully defended British soldiers against murder charges arising from the Boston Massacre. Adams was a Massachusetts delegate to the Continental Congress and became a leader of the revolution. He assisted Jefferson in drafting the Declaration of Independence in 1776. As a diplomat in Europe, he helped negotiate a peace treaty with Great Britain and secured vital governmental loans. Adams was the primary author of the Massachusetts Constitution in 1780, which influenced the United States constitution, as did his essay "Thoughts on Government".  Adams was elected to two terms as vice president under President George Washington and was elected as the United States' second president in 1796. He was the only president elected under the banner of the Federalist Party. During his single term, Adams encountered fierce criticism from the Jeffersonian Republicans and from some in his own Federalist Party, led by his rival Alexander Hamilton. Adams signed the controversial Alien and Sedition Acts, and built up the Army and Navy in the undeclared naval war (called the "Quasi-War") with France. During his term, he became the first president to reside in the executive mansion now known as the White House.  In his bid for reelection, opposition from Federalists and accusations of despotism from Jeffersonians led to Adams losing to his vice president and former friend Jefferson, and he retired to Massachusetts. He eventually resumed his friendship with Jefferson by initiating a correspondence that lasted fourteen years. He and his wife generated the Adams political family, a line of politicians, diplomats, and historians. It includes their son John Quincy Adams, the sixth president. John Adams died on July 4, 1826 – the fiftieth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration of Independence – hours after Jefferson's death. Adams and his son are the only presidents of the first twelve who never owned slaves. Surveys of historians and scholars have favorably ranked his administration.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP]
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP] Jason Mantzoukas  Jason Mantzoukas (, ; born December 18, 1972) is an American actor, comedian, writer and podcaster. He is best known for his recurring role as Rafi in the FX comedy series "The League", and as one of the three co-hosts of the podcast "How Did This Get Made?" alongside Paul Scheer and June Diane Raphael.  After beginning his career as an improv comedian, he has played several comedic roles in film and television. He appeared in the films "The Dictator", "The Long Dumb Road", "Sleeping with Other People", "They Came Together", "Conception", and "". He has had recurring roles on three TV series created by Michael Schur: "Parks and Recreation" (as Dennis Feinstein), "Brooklyn Nine-Nine" (as Adrian Pimento), and "The Good Place" (as Derek Hofstetler). He voices the characters Jay Bilzerian in the Netflix animated series "Big Mouth", Alex Dorpenberger in the HBO Max animated series "Close Enough", Rex Splode in the Amazon Prime animated action series "Invincible", and Jankom Pog in the Paramount+ animated series "".
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP] John Schneider (screen actor)  John Richard Schneider (born April 8, 1960) is an American actor and country music singer. He is best known for his portrayal of Beauregard "Bo" Duke in the American television action/comedy series "The Dukes of Hazzard" (opposite Tom Wopat, Catherine Bach and James Best),<ref name=NYT/> Jonathan Kent in the 2001–11 TV series "Smallville",<ref name=NYT/> and James "Jim" Cryer on the television series "The Haves and the Have Nots", created by Tyler Perry.  Alongside his acting career, Schneider has been a singer since the early 1980s, releasing nine studio albums and a greatest hits package, as well as eighteen singles. This total includes "I've Been Around Enough to Know", "Country Girls", "What's a Memory Like You", and "You're the Last Thing I Needed Tonight", all of which reached the top of the "Billboard" country singles charts.
In what city was John Mant born? [SEP] Jack Nicholson  John Joseph Nicholson (born April 22, 1937) is an American retired actor and filmmaker. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest actors of all time. In many of his films, he played rebels against the social structure.<ref name="Katz" /> He received numerous accolades throughout his career which spanned over five decades, including three Academy Awards.  His most known and celebrated films include "Chinatown" (1974), "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975), "The Shining" (1980), and "The Departed" (2006). He has also directed three films, including "The Two Jakes" (1990), a sequel to "Chinatown".  His twelve Academy Award nominations make Nicholson the most nominated male actor in the Academy's history. He has won the Academy Award for Best Actor twice, once for "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" (1975) and once for "As Good as It Gets" (1997); he also won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for "Terms of Endearment" (1983). He is one of only three male actors to win three Academy Awards, and one of only two actors to be nominated for an Academy Award for acting in films made in every decade from the 1960s to the 2000s. He has won six Golden Globe Awards and received the Kennedy Center Honor in 2001. In 1994, he became one of the youngest actors to receive the American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award.
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]  Andrea Magi (born 14 July 1966 in Pesaro, Pesaro e Urbino) is a former amateur boxer from Italy. He is best known for winning the bronze medal at the 1987 European Championships in Turin, Italy in the Men's Light Heavyweight (&ndash; 81 kg) division. He represented his native country at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]  Magini-Coletti was born in 1855 in the medieval town of Iesi (written Jesi in Italian), which is situated inland from Ancona on central Italy's east coast. Published details of his early life are scant but sources agree that he studied singing during the 1870s with the distinguished pedagogue Venceslao Persichini at Rome's Conservatorio di Santa Cecilia. (Persichini's other students included the lyric tenor Francesco Marconi and Magini-Coletti's fellow baritones Mattia Battistini, Giuseppe De Luca and Titta Ruffo.) In 1880, Magini-Colleti made his operatic debut at Rome's Teatro Costanzi, as Valentin in Gounod's Faust. He continued to perform regularly at that opera house for the
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]  Church and Monastery of Città della Pieve ; Cascata delle Marmore, Terni ; Hydraulic works in the Val di Chiana in the Romagna, Pontine marshes, Port of Fano, Aqueducts in Loreto, Perugia, and Rome Andrea was born in Arcevia in the Marche, the brother of Arcangelo, who was also an architect of note, leaving behind works at Jesi, Arcevia, Fano, Corinaldo, and Cupramontana. At the age of 14, Andrea was given a classical education in mathematics, letters and design by Francesco Appiani at Perugia. At the age of 17 he joined the studio of the painter Cesare Pozzi in Rome, then studied architecture under Carlo Murena. At the age of
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]  Andrea Nurcis (born Andrea Curreli, February 26, 1962) was born in Cagliari, Italy. Since 1980 he has exhibited in private galleries in Italy and the United States, and in museums and public spaces including the Palazzo delle Esposizioni in Rome, the Royal Palace of Naples, the Italian Pavilion at the 48th Venice Biennale, the Galleria d'Arte Moderna, Bologna, the Arnaldo Pomodoro Foundation in Milan, the Palazzo Collicola Arti Visive museum in Spoleto. Since 1986 he has lived and worked much of the time in Rome; his works are to be found in private and public collections in Italy, United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain and the United States. He has held public lectures at
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]  Radrizzani was born in Rho, a metropolitan area of Milan. He graduated with a degree in public relations from IULM University in 1996.
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP] Andrea Magi  Andrea Magi (born 14 July 1966 in Pesaro, Pesaro e Urbino) is a former amateur boxer from Italy. He is best known for winning the bronze medal at the 1987 European Championships in Turin, Italy in the Men's Light Heavyweight (– 81 kg) division. He represented his native country at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea.
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP] Sandro Botticelli  Alessandro di Mariano di Vanni Filipepi (<ref name="Ettl"/> – May 17, 1510), known as Sandro Botticelli (, ), was an Italian painter of the Early Renaissance. Botticelli's posthumous reputation suffered until the late 19th century, when he was rediscovered by the Pre-Raphaelites who stimulated a reappraisal of his work. Since then, his paintings have been seen to represent the linear grace of late Italian Gothic and some Early Renaissance painting, even though they date from the latter half of the Italian Renaissance period.  In addition to the mythological subjects for which he is best known today, Botticelli painted a wide range of religious subjects (including dozens of renditions of the "Madonna and Child", many in the round tondo shape) and also some portraits. His best-known works are "The Birth of Venus" and "Primavera", both in the Uffizi in Florence, which holds many of Botticelli’s works. Botticelli lived all his life in the same neighbourhood of Florence; his only significant times elsewhere were the months he spent painting in Pisa in 1474 and the Sistine Chapel in Rome in 1481–82.  Only one of Botticelli's paintings, the "Mystic Nativity" (National Gallery, London) is inscribed with a date (1501), but others can be dated with varying degrees of certainty on the basis of archival records, so the development of his style can be traced with some confidence. He was an independent master for all the 1470s, which saw his reputation soar. The 1480s were his most successful decade, the one in which his large mythological paintings were completed along with many of his most famous Madonnas. By the 1490s his style became more personal and to some extent mannered. His last works show him moving in a direction opposite to that of Leonardo da Vinci (seven years his junior) and the new generation of painters creating the High Renaissance style, and instead returning to a style that many have described as more Gothic or "archaic."
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP] Andrea Libman  Andrea Eva Libman (born July 19, 1984) is a Canadian actress whose most popular on-screen appearances are in "Little Women", "Andre", and a guest role on "The X-Files". She is also known for providing voice acting in various animated shows, most notably her worldwide recognition for voicing the characters of Pinkie Pie and Fluttershy in "" and its spinoffs.
In what city was Andrea Magi born? [SEP]
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP]  Shehu Usman Shagari was born on 25 February 1925 in Shagari to a Sunni Muslim Fulani family. Shagari was founded by his great-grandfather, Ahmadu Rufa'i. He was raised in a polygamous family, and was the sixth child born into the family. His father, Aliyu Shagari, was the Magajin Shagari (magaji means village head). Prior to becoming Magajin Shagari, Aliyu was a farmer, trader and herder. However, due to traditional rites that prevented rulers from participating in business, Aliyu relinquished some of his trading interests when he became the Magaji. Aliyu died five years after Shehu's birth, and Shehu's elder brother, Bello,
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP]  Shehu Mohammed Shagari (born 29 November 1990 in Kano) is a Nigerian footballer who is currently playing in the Nigerian Premier League for Kano Pillars F.C..
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP]  Shagari is the eldest son of former president Shehu Shagari by his wife Hajiya Amina. He was born in the town of Shagari, Sokoto State in 1949. He attended the prestigious Barewa College, Zaria and proceeded to the Nigerian Defence Academy in 1975 where he was a member of the 18th Regular Course. In the aftermath of the December 1983 coup in Nigeria led by General Muhammadu Buhari which removed his father, he was detained briefly and was later forcefully retired from the Nigerian army without offense at the rank of Captain.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP]  Dingyadi was born in Dingyadi, Sokoto. He is a 1978 graduate of Ahmadu Bello University.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP]  Mohammed was born in Toledo, Ohio, and raised in Charlotte, North Carolina. He was born to two immigrant parents from India. Mohammed is a graduate of Charlotte-Mecklenburg Schools, earning his bachelor's degree from the University of North Carolina, Charlotte and law degree from North Carolina Central University School of Law. His professional experience includes working as a children's rights advocate and public interest attorney. In addition to defending the rights of the underprivileged in the courtroom, and fighting to connect low-income families to the services they need every day, Mohammed serves on the Boards of Directors of non-profit and child advocacy organizations.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP] Shagari Mohammed  Shehu Mohammed Shagari (born 29 November 1990 in Kano) is a Nigerian footballer who is currently playing in the Nigerian Premier League for Kano Pillars F.C.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP] Shehu Shagari  Shehu Usman Aliyu Shagari (25 February 1925 – 28 December 2018), titled Turakin Sokoto from 1962, was the first democratically elected President of Nigeria, after the transfer of power by military head of state General Olusegun Obasanjo in 1979 giving rise to the Second Nigerian Republic.  An experienced politician, he briefly worked as a teacher before entering politics in 1951; and was elected into the House of Representatives in 1954. At various times between 1958 through independence of Nigeria in 1960 and 1975, he held a cabinet post as a federal commissioner or as a federal minister. As President, Shagari presided over the mass deportation of West African migrants in 1983, which primarily impacted Ghanaian migrants in Nigeria.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP] Muhammad Bala Shagari  Muhammad Bala Shagari (born 17 March 1949) is a retired Nigerian military officer and the District Head of Shagari Local Government in Sokoto State, Nigeria. He holds the traditional title of Sarkin Mafara of Shagari. He is the first son of Nigeria’s first elected president Shehu Shagari
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP] Muhammadu Buhari  Muhammadu Buhari (born 17 December 1942) is a Nigerian politician and current president of Nigeria since 2015.  Buhari is a retired Nigerian Army major general who served as the country's military head of state from 31 December 1983 to 27 August 1985, after taking power in a military coup d'état. The term Buharism is ascribed to the authoritarian policies of his military regime.  Buhari ran for president of Nigeria in 2003, 2007, and 2011. In December 2014, he emerged as the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress party for the 2015 general election. Buhari won the election, defeating incumbent President Goodluck Ebele Jonathan. This was the first time in the history of Nigeria that an incumbent president lost a general election. He was sworn in on 29 May 2015. In February 2019, Buhari was re-elected, defeating his closest rival, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, by over 3 million votes.
In what city was Shagari Mohammed born? [SEP] Muhammad  Muhammad (;  570 – 8 June 632 CE) was an Arab religious, social, and political leader and the founder of Islam. According to Islamic doctrine, he was a prophet divinely inspired to preach and confirm the monotheistic teachings of Adam, Abraham, Moses, Jesus, and other prophets. He is believed to be the Seal of the Prophets within Islam. Muhammad united Arabia into a single Muslim polity, with the Quran as well as his teachings and practices forming the basis of Islamic religious belief.  Muhammad was born approximately 570CE in Mecca. He was the son of Abdullah ibn Abd al-Muttalib and Amina bint Wahb. His father Abdullah was the son of Quraysh tribal leader Abd al-Muttalib ibn Hashim, and he died a few months before Muhammad's birth. His mother Amina died when he was six, leaving Muhammad an orphan. He was raised under the care of his grandfather, Abd al-Muttalib, and paternal uncle, Abu Talib. In later years, he would periodically seclude himself in a mountain cave named Hira for several nights of prayer. When he was 40, Muhammad reported being visited by Gabriel in the cave and receiving his first revelation from God. In 613, Muhammad started preaching these revelations publicly, proclaiming that "God is One", that complete "submission" ("islām") to God is the right way of life ("dīn"), and that he was a prophet and messenger of God, similar to the other prophets in Islam.  Muhammad's followers were initially few in number, and experienced hostility from Meccan polytheists for 13 years. To escape ongoing persecution, he sent some of his followers to Abyssinia in 615, before he and his followers migrated from Mecca to Medina (then known as Yathrib) later in 622. This event, the "Hijra", marks the beginning of the Islamic calendar, also known as the Hijri Calendar. In Medina, Muhammad united the tribes under the Constitution of Medina. In December 629, after eight years of intermittent fighting with Meccan tribes, Muhammad gathered an army of 10,000 Muslim converts and marched on the city of Mecca. The conquest went largely uncontested and Muhammad seized the city with little bloodshed. In 632, a few months after returning from the Farewell Pilgrimage, he fell ill and died. By the time of his death, most of the Arabian Peninsula had converted to Islam.  The revelations (each known as "Ayah —" literally, "Sign [of God]") that Muhammad reported receiving until his death form the verses of the Quran, regarded by Muslims as the verbatim "Word of God" on which the religion is based. Besides the Quran, Muhammad's teachings and practices ("sunnah"), found in the Hadith and "sira" (biography) literature, are also upheld and used as sources of Islamic law (see Sharia).
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP]  Frederick Donald MacKenzie, (December 18, 1882 &ndash; October 13, 1970) was a soldier, teacher and Member of Parliament in Canada. Mackenzie was born in Presqu'île, Ontario and was educated at Owen Sound Collegiate and Vocational Institute and Queen's University where he earned a Bachelor of Arts. He served during the First World War with the Queen's University Hospital Unit from 1915 to 1916 in Egypt and the Dardanelles. He was subsequently a lieutenant with the Canadian Field Artillery from 1916 to 1919. Following the war, he returned to Canada and settled in Neepawa, Manitoba, where he worked as a teacher and became a school principal. In the 1935 federal election he ran as a Liberal candidate in Neepawa and was returned to the House of Commons of Canada. He was re-elected in the 1940 federal election but defeated in the 1945 election by the Progressive Conservative leader and former Manitoba Premier John Bracken. He died in 1970 in Ottawa.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP]  He was born in 1941 at Sherbrooke Street in Montreal. He was the son of John Gordon Mackenzie (1796–1881), a wealthy dry goods merchant and native of Dingwall. Mackenzie's mother was a daughter of the Hon. Horatio Yates. Mackenzie was educated at McGill University and was called to the Lower Canada bar in 1862. Frederick Mackenzie was a captain in the militia and served during the Fenian raids. He was a lay secretary for the Church of England in Quebec and Montreal. His election in 1874 was declared void by reason of bribery by his agents; he was elected again in a by-election held in December that year. That election was also declared void and Thomas Workman was elected in a by-election held the following year. Mackenzie represented Montreal West in the House of Commons of Canada from 1874 to 1875 as a Liberal member.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP]  Frederick Arthur MacKenzie (1869–1931, often spelled as McKenzie) was a correspondent active in the early 20th century who wrote several books on geopolitical developments in eastern Asia. He was born in Quebec, and described himself as "Scots-Canadian". He briefly contributed to the Pall Mall Gazette, and then for several years he worked with the Daily Mail as traveling correspondent in the Far East. Mackenzie was one of the few Western journalists to cover the Russo-Japanese War from the Japanese side, and one of the few Western correspondents that wrote about the Korean resistance against Japan during the Japanese Rule. His last book was related to religious persecution in Soviet Russia. In 2014, he was posthumously awarded the Order of Merit for National Foundation by the Korean Government.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP]  Born in 1787 or 1788, he was the son of Thomas Mackenzie, linendraper, and a pupil of John Adey Repton the architect. He was early employed in making architectural and topographical drawings for the works of John Britton and others, and this set the direction for his career. His style was quite close to that of Auguste Pugin, with whom he worked; and they were both under the influence of John Nash. In 1804 Mackenzie began to exhibit at the Royal Academy, and contributed eleven drawings between that year and 1828. He contributed to the Society of Painters in Water-colours from 1813, becoming an associate in 1822, and a full member the following year. From 30 November 1831 till his death he was treasurer to the society. In later life Mackenzie was no longer commissioned to illustrate books. He died on the 25th April 1854, of disease of the heart and was buried on the western side of Highgate Cemetery. His grave (no.1007) no longer has a headstone or any memorial. His remaining works were sold at Sotheby's in March 1855.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP]  Mackenzie was born in Edinburgh in 1853. His family emigrated to New Zealand in 1858 when he was four and Mackenzie was educated at Green Island School and at the Stone School, both in Dunedin. After ending his education in his early teens he worked for several years in commercial firms before, aged 20, following his brother James into surveying. He gained employment at the Department of Lands and Survey and worked in several locations including the Hutt Valley, Rangitikei and Manawatu before finally returning to his home area in Dunedin. In 1877 he purchased a general storekeeping business in Balclutha. He managed the business well and it developed well before he sold it in 1886 for a considerable profit.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP] Frederick Arthur MacKenzie  Frederick Arthur MacKenzie (1869–1931, often spelled as "McKenzie") was a correspondent active in the early 20th century who wrote several books on geopolitical developments in eastern Asia. He was born in Quebec, and described himself as "Scots-Canadian". He briefly contributed to the "Pall Mall Gazette", and then for several years he worked with the "Daily Mail" as travelling correspondent in the Far East.  Mackenzie was one of the few Western journalists to cover the Russo-Japanese War from the Japanese side, and one of the few Western correspondents that wrote about the Korean resistance against Japan during the Japanese Rule. His last book was related to religious persecution in Soviet Russia. In 2014, he was posthumously awarded the Order of Merit for National Foundation by the Korean Government.<ref name=":2" />
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP] Frederick Mackenzie (painter)  Frederick Mackenzie (c.1788–1854) was a British watercolourist and architectural draughtsman.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP] Charles Mackenzie (bishop)  Charles Frederick Frazier Mackenzie (1825–62) was a Church of England Bishop of Central Africa. He is commemorated in some Anglican Church Calendars.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP] Fred T. Mackenzie  Frederick T. Mackenzie (born March 17, 1934) is an American sedimentary and global biogeochemist. Mackenzie applies experimental and field data coupled to a sound theoretical framework to the solution of geological, geochemical, and oceanographic problems at various time and space scales.  He is identified closely with the book "Evolution of Sedimentary Rocks" co-authored in 1971 by Mackenzie with Robert M. Garrels, which reawakened and revitalized the scientific community to the ideas of the British geologist James Hutton that lay fallow for more than 150 years. "Evolution of Sedimentary Rocks" expanded on the theory of reverse weathering proposed by Mackenzie and Garrels in 1966.
In what city was Frederick Mackenzie born? [SEP] Frederick Mackenzie (cricketer)  Colonel Frederick Finch Mackenzie (14 July 1849 – 17 July 1934) was an English magistrate, militia soldier and amateur cricketer. He was the commander of 5th Battalion, Lancashire Fusiliers and played two first-class cricket matches for Kent County Cricket Club in 1880.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP]  Gyula Czimra (3 January 1901 – 16 July 1966) was a Hungarian painter, with works in the collection of Hungarian National Gallery, the Tornyai Museum of Hódmezővásárhely, the Rákospalota Museum and the Kiscell Museum.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP]  Cziffra was born to a poor family in Budapest in 1921. In his memoirs Cziffra describes his father as "a cabaret artist". His parents had lived in Paris before World War I, when they were expelled as enemy aliens. His earliest training in piano came from watching his elder sister Yolande practice. She had decided she was going to learn the piano after finding a job which allowed her to save the required amount of money for buying an upright piano. Cziffra, who was weak as a child, often watched his sister practice, and mimicked her. He learned without sheet music, instead repeating and improvising over tunes sung by his parents. Later he earned money as a child improvising on popular music at a local circus. In 1930 Cziffra began to study at the Franz Liszt Academy under the tuition of Ernő Dohnányi until 1941, when he was conscripted into the Hungarian Army. He gave numerous concerts in Hungary, Scandinavia and the Netherlands.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP]  Kabos was born on 19 March 1887, in Budapest as Gyula Kann. After completing Elek Solymosi's acting school, he started acting in Szabadka (Subotica), where he worked until 1910 with a short interruption in 1906–07 when he lived in Zombor (Sombor). Szabadka granted him his first successes, his first successful forays into the world of theatre, and this is the town where he met his first great comedic partner, Gyula Gózon. Following his advice, he moved to Nagyvárad (Oradea) and lived there from 1910 to 1913. Later on, he remembered these years quite fondly. He was a well-known actor in town and had various comic adventures with his partner (which were released weekly in the town newspaper). He later moved to Budapest to play in different theatres, including the Király Színház, the Vígszínház, Pesti Kabaré, while trying, but ultimately failing to start an American-styled variety theatre in Nagyvárad (1919).
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP]  Gyula Gózon was born on 19 April 1885, in Érsekújvár, but grew up in Esztergom. With the mentoring of his brother, he could fulfill his dream of learning to be a singer actor at the actor school of Szidi Rákosi in Budapest. After graduating, he joins a group touring the southern part of the country, often working under harsh conditions, changing location and repertory often. During this period he has the chance to polish his prosaic capabilities, one that was omitted in Rákosi's school. After playing in Târgu Mureş and Miercurea Ciuc, he gains the attention of Miklós Erdélyi, the director of Oradea's theater, who offers him contract in 1904. He plays here for six
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP]  Gyula Kristó was born in Orosháza on 11 July 1939. He studied at the József Attila University Szeged between 1957 and 1962.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP] Gyula Czimra  Gyula Czimra (3 January 1901 – 16 July 1966) was a Hungarian painter, with works in the collection of Hungarian National Gallery, the Tornyai Museum of Hódmezővásárhely, the Rákospalota Museum and the Kiscell Museum.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP] Gyula Gózon Gyula Gózon (19 April 1885, in Nové Zámky – 8 October 1972, in Budapest) was a Hungarian actor and comedian. Gyula Gózon was born on 19 April 1885, in Érsekújvár, but grew up in Esztergom. With the mentoring of his brother, he could fulfill his dream of learning to be a singer actor at the actor school of Szidi Rákosi in Budapest. After graduating, he joins a group touring the southern part of the country, often working under harsh conditions, changing location and repertory often. During this period he has the chance to polish his prosaic capabilities, one
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP] Dezső Czigány Dezsö Czigány (1 June 1883 – 31 December 1937) was a Hungarian painter who was born and died in Budapest. He was one of The Eight (1909–1918), who first exhibited under that name in Budapest in 1911 and were influential in introducing cubism, fauvism and expressionism into Hungarian art. Many of them had studied in Munich and, even more importantly, Paris, from which they brought back leading techniques and artistic movements. They were part of the radical intellectual culture in Budapest in the early 20th century, associated with such poets as Endre Ady and composers as Béla Bartók.
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP] and recordings with his father. However, his promising career was cut short by his death in an apartment fire in 1981. Cziffra never again performed or recorded with an orchestra, and some critics have commented that the severe emotional blow affected his playing quality. Cziffra died in Longpont-sur-Orge, Essonne, France, aged 72, from a heart attack resulting from a series of complications from lung cancer. See György Cziffra György Cziffra (in Hungarian form Cziffra György, , also known as Georges Cziffra and George Cziffra; 5 November 192115 January 1994), was a Hungarian virtuoso pianist and composer. He is considered to
In what city was Gyula Czimra born? [SEP] Géza von Cziffra Géza von Cziffra (; 19 December 1900 – 28 April 1989) was a Hungarian and Austrian film director and screenwriter. Cziffra was a Banat German in origin, born in 1900 in Arad in the Banat region, at that date in the Kingdom of Hungary, now in Romania. Cziffra made films from the 1930s onwards, at first in Hungary, and from 1936 in Germany as well, where however he was initially more active as a screenwriter. In 1945 in Prague, then occupied by the Germans, he made the film "Leuchtende Schatten" ("Glowing Shadows"). As adviser for the criminal
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]  Catherine Thysmans alias Tishem (died after 1577) was an erudite woman from Antwerp who educated her son, the celebrated scholar Jan Gruter, while in exile in England. She was the one woman in England under the bourgeoisie to be known as a classical scholar. The principal source for Catherine Tishem's life is a worshipful tribute to her son, Jan Gruter, written by one of his pupils, Balthasar Venator. According to Venator, Tishem was a remarkably erudite woman, fluent in Latin, Greek, French, Italian, and English and able to read Galen's original text. In 1558 in Antwerp, Tishem married a widowed and wealthy merchant and juror, Wouter Gruter (also "Walterus", "de Gruytere", etc.),
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]  from Breda. They had four children, Jan being born in December 1560. Her husband co-signed the Compromise of Nobles in 1566, and to flee prosecution in the Spanish Netherlands, they moved to the Dutch Calvinist exile community of Norwich. Some biographies of Jan Gruter claim that Tishem was originally from Norwich herself, though Thijsmans/Thysmans was a regular Flemish patronymic. When their son enrolled at the new Leiden University in Holland in 1578/1579, Catherine and Wouter returned to Antwerp, but the Siege of Antwerp in 1584 made them flee again, this time to Lübeck and then Gdańsk. Wouter Gruter died in Gdańsk in 1588, and, according to Peter Fuchs, Catherine died in 1595.
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]  Catherine Duchemin (12 November 1630 – 21 September 1698) was a French flower and fruit painter. She was born in Paris as the daughter of the sculptor Jaques Duchemin and Elizabeth Hubault. She married the sculptor Girardon in 1657, and 14 April 1663 was received into the Academy as the first lady on whom this honour had been conferred. Her reception piece was a flower still-life. Her portrait was painted by Sébastien Bourdon, whose portrait she also painted. The portrait of her by Bourdon was shown at the Paris Exposition Universelle (1878), "Les Portraits nationaux", palais du Trocadéro. She had around 10 children which probably affected her productivity as a painter. She died in Paris.
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]  She was born as Catherine Uhlmyer in Manhattan, New York on April 4, 1893. Her father died before she was a year old, and her mother, Veronica, married John Gallagher. On June 15, 1904 when she was 11 years old, she was one of the passengers aboard the General Slocum when it caught fire on the East River in New York City. She remembered a boy shouting "fire" while a brass band was playing on the deck of the ship to entertain the travelers. She recounted the images of mothers and children with their clothing on fire drowning in the rough waters of Hell Gate. Others were killed as they were drawn into the blades of the paddlewheel. The total death count was 1,021 of the 1,331 passengers who were on a Sunday school outing, and among the victims were
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]  Catherine Scimeca was born on March 30, 1943, in Hempstead, New York and was raised as a Roman Catholic. She studied at Middlebury College in Vermont, and later commenced her career as theater actress, playing a variety of roles, mainly Shakespearian. She also worked as a municipal case worker. In 1966, she married Philip Roskam, who was also a case worker. She joined the Episcopal Church in 1974. She attended the General Theological Seminary and graduated in 1984. She was then ordained to the diaconate on June 9, 1984 and to the priesthood on December 20, 1984. Catherine worked closely with AIDS victims in New York City, before moving to San Francisco in 1989. While there, she became rector of Our Saviour in Mill Valley, California and in 1991 became priest-in-charge of Holy Innocents Church in San Francisco. None months later she became diocesan missioner for 24 congregations.
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP] Catherine Tishem  Catherine Thysmans alias Tishem (died 1595) was an erudite woman from Antwerp who educated her son, the celebrated scholar Jan Gruter, while in exile in England. She was the one woman in England under the bourgeoisie to be known as a classical scholar.  The principal source for Catherine Tishem's life is a worshipful tribute to her son, Jan Gruter, written by one of his pupils, Balthasar Venator. According to Venator, Tishem was a remarkably erudite woman, fluent in Latin, Greek, French, Italian, and English and able to read Galen's original text.  In 1558 in Antwerp, Tishem married a widowed and wealthy merchant and juror, Wouter Gruter (also "Walterus", "de Gruytere", etc.), originally from Breda. They had four children, Jan being born in December 1560. though Thijsmans/Thysmans was a regular Flemish patronymic. When their son enrolled at the new Leiden University in Holland in 1578/1579, Catherine and Wouter returned to Antwerp, but the Siege of Antwerp in 1584 made them flee again, this time to Lübeck and then Gdańsk.<ref name=bodl/> Wouter Gruter died in Gdańsk in 1588,<ref name=bodl/> and, according to Peter Fuchs, Catherine died in 1595.<ref name=pf/>
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP] George Ballard (biographer)  George Ballard (c. 1706 – June 1755) was an English antiquary and biographer, the author of "Memoirs of Several Ladies of Great Britain" (1752).
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP] Titian  Tiziano Vecelli or Vecellio (; 27 August 1576), known in English as Titian ( ), was an Italian (Venetian) painter of the Renaissance, considered the most important member of the 16th-century Venetian school. He was born in Pieve di Cadore, near Belluno. During his lifetime he was often called "da Cadore", 'from Cadore', taken from his native region.  Recognized by his contemporaries as "The Sun Amidst Small Stars" (recalling the final line of Dante's "Paradiso"), Titian was one of the most versatile of Italian painters, equally adept with portraits, landscape backgrounds, and mythological and religious subjects. His painting methods, particularly in the application and use of colour, exercised a profound influence not only on painters of the late Italian Renaissance, but on future generations of Western artists.  His career was successful from the start, and he became sought after by patrons, initially from Venice and its possessions, then joined by the north Italian princes, and finally the Habsburgs and papacy. Along with Giorgione, he is considered a founder of the Venetian School of Italian Renaissance painting.  During the course of his long life, Titian's artistic manner changed drastically, but he retained a lifelong interest in colour. Although his mature works may not contain the vivid, luminous tints of his early pieces, their loose brushwork and subtlety of tone were without precedent in the history of Western painting.
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP]
In what city was Catherine Tishem born? [SEP] Collective 18th-century biographies of literary women  During the eighteenth century, there were several attempts to describe a "women's literary tradition." This table compares six eighteenth-century collections of notable women: George Ballard's "Memoirs of several ladies of Great Britain" (1752),<ref name="Several ladies" /> John Duncombe's "The Feminead" (1754),<ref name="Feminead" /> the "Biographium Faemineum" (Anon., 1766),<ref name="Biographium" /> Mary Scott's "The Female Advocate" (1775),<ref name="Advocate" /> Richard Polwhele's "The Unsex'd Females"<ref name="unsexed" /> (1798), and Mary Hay's "Female Biography" (1803).<ref name="Female Biography" />
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]  Jiří Vyčichlo (born 17 May 1946) is a retired Czechoslovak triple jumper. He was born in Prague and represented the club Dukla Praha. He finished seventh at the 1974 European Championships, ninth at the 1975 European Indoor Championships, and ninth at the 1976 Olympic Games. He became Czechoslovak champion in 1968, 1971, 1973, 1974, 1976, 1977 and 1978; and Czechoslovak indoor champion in 1974, 1975 and 1978. His personal best jump was 16.87 metres, achieved in May 1976 in Prague.
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]  Křivohlavý was born on 19 March 1925 in Třebenice (Czechoslovakia). When he was 17, he was imprisoned by Nazis in Small Fortress in Terezín. Later, during the communist regime, he was forced to work for three years in the Prago IV mine in Kladno. He studied on the Faculty of Philosophy of the Charles University, majoring in Psychology, Philosophy and Anglicistics. In 1950 he obtained a Ph.D. in Philosophy. In 1996 he was granted the title of Doctor of Science. Later, after his habilitation on the Masaryk University (Brno), the president of the Czech Republic Václav Havel awarded him with the university professor degree. In 1967–1994 he worked in the Postgradual Medical Institute in Prague teaching medical doctors in their preparation for specializing in medicine, and working in the hospitals especially with cancer patients,
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]  Jirous was born in Humpolec in Vysočina. His mother was a teacher, and his father worked in tax. He completed his secondary education at Dr. A Hrdlička's Secondary Comprehensive and Primary School in Humpolec (now known as Dr A Hrdlička's Gymnasium). Initially, Jirous wanted to study at the Film and TV School of the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague (FAMU), but his cousin Jiří Padrta, editor of the journal Výtvarná práce, steered him towards art history. In 1962, Jirous sat the entrance exam to study history of art at the Philosophy Faculty of Charles University in Prague. A condition of entry for students at the time was the completion of a year in industry before beginning their studies; in Jirous' case, he had to work as a construction worker and stoker. Jirous studied between 1963 and 1968. The topic of his diploma thesis was visual poetry in the works of the poets Jiří Kolář and Henri Michaux. His sister Zara, who was two years older than him and married to the photographer Jan Ságl, also pursued fine art.
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP] Bedřich Bridel (1619–1680), writer, poet and missionary ; Dismas Hataš (1724–1777), violinist and composer ; Alois Vojtěch Šembera (1807–1882), linguist and historian of literature ; Josef Jireček (1825–1888), scholar ; Hermenegild Jireček (1827–1909), jurisconsult ; Hermann Škorpil (1858–1923), Czech-Bulgarian archaeologist and museum worker ; Karel Škorpil (1859–1944), Czech-Bulgarian archaeologist and museum worker ; František Ventura (1894–1969), equestrian, Olympic winner ; Maria Tauberová (1911–2003), opera singer ; Ladislav Trpkoš (1915–2004), basketball player ; Zdeněk Mlynář (1930–1997), politologist and politician ; Marie Málková (born 1941), actress ; Josef Krečmer (born 1958), violoncellist ; Luboš Kubík (born 1964), football player and coach ; Martin Dejdar (born 1965), actor, writer and producer ; Jan Jiraský (born 1973), pianist and pedagogue
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]  Lev was born in the Czech Republic, then part of Czechoslovakia, to parents Jiri Loew, architect, academic and politician and Lydie Loewova, architect. He was educated at a grammar school in Brno, Moravia. He first established his multidisciplinary design practice in Prague in 1998. In 2005 he moved to Sydney, Australia.
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP]
In what city was Jiří Vyčichlo born? [SEP] Josef Jireček Josef Jireček (9 October 1825, in Vysoké Mýto – 25 November 1888, in Prague) was a Czech scholar. He was born in Vysoké Mýto (then part of the Austrian Empire). He entered the Prague bureau of education in 1850, and became minister of the department in the Hohenwart cabinet in 1871. His efforts to secure equal educational privileges for the Slav nationalities in the Austrian dominions brought him into disfavour with the German element. He became a member of the Bohemian Landtag in 1878, and of the Austrian Reichsrat in 1879. His merits as a scholar were recognized
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]  Hernández was born in Cumaná, Sucre, and began his career in the 2015 education tournament with ACD Lara until Torneo Clausura 2017, he accumulated 5365 minutes, in 73 games with 26 goals. He plays with Deportivo Anzoátegui, Llaneros de Guanare y Aragua FC.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP] Notes
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]  Samaniego was born in 1975 in Chihuahua, Mexico. Samaniego lived with his girlfriend and his two daughters in the Chihuahua City's Santa Rosa neighborhood.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]  Hernández is a product of Monagas. He got his professional debut for the club at the age of 17, on 21 October 2018, against Metropolitanos.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]  Jesús Hernández Moreno (born 9 January 2004) is a Mexican professional footballer who plays as a forward for Liga MX club Querétaro. He was included in The Guardian's "Next Generation" list for 2021.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP] Jesus Hernandez (racing driver)  Jesus Hernandez (born April 1, 1981) is an American professional stock car racing driver. He competed in what is now the ARCA Menards Series East full-time for three years from 2007 to 2009, while also making one start in both the West and ARCA Series during the course of his career. Being a Hispanic American, Hernandez was also a member of the Drive for Diversity program.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP] Antonio Menchaca  José Antonio Menchaca (January 1800 – November 1, 1879) was an American soldier and politician who fought in the Texas Revolution and was recognized by a Joint Resolution of the Republic of Texas on December 22, 1838. Following the war, Menchaca served on the city council of San Antonio, Texas. He later commanded militia troops and helped defend the town from a Mexican invasion by General Adrian Woll in 1842.
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]
In what city was Jesús Antonio Hernández born? [SEP]
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP]  Gerd Ludwig (birth name Gerhard Erich Ludwig, born March 17, 1947 in Alsfeld, Hesse, Germany) is a German-American documentary photographer and photojournalist.
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP]  Ludwig Gerhardt is the son of Dietrich Kurt Gerhardt. He attended school in Zorbau from 1944 to 1945, in Halle an der Saale from 1945 to 1946, in Erlangen from 1946 to 1948, and grammar school from 1948 to 1958 in Münster. After graduating from high school in 1958 at the Schillergymnasium, Münster, he served in the military from 1958 to 1959, where he was a first lieutenant. Gerhardt studied African studies, phonetics and ethnomusicology at the University of Hamburg from 1959 to 1967, where he obtained a doctorate in 1967.
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP]  Ludwig Kieninger was born in Passau, Bavaria, on November 19, 1925. Kieninger emigrated to Santiago, Chile in 1953. He opened up a studio there and remained very active in his art there until 1959. At that time, he emigrated to Muenster, Texas. Due to increased demand of his art and teaching skills, in 1975, he opened up a more centrally located studio in Dallas, Texas, near University Park. As he grew older, he desired a studio more closely located to his home in DeSoto, Texas. So in the late 1980s, he moved his busy shop there. He continued to teach and work steadily on his art until 2006 when he suffered a severe stroke. Ludwig Kieninger passed away Wednesday, Feb. 12, 2014.
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP]  Born in Bochum on February 24, 1947, he finished the Graf-Engelbert-Schule (Gymnasium) in 1967 and studied Art History, English Language and Literature, Philosophy, Pedagogics and Psychology at the Ruhr-Universität Bochum from 1968 to 1972; later also Anthropology at the Rheinische-Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität in Bonn. He received his PhD with a book on the British 18th Century portrait painter George Romney in 1972. He became a curator at the University of Bochum’s University Library, in 1974 he went to Bonn University as Assistant Professor for Art History. In 1983 he left the University to become a freelance journalist for the national newspapers “Die Welt” and “Rheinischer Merkur” as well as a number of regional journals like “Kölnische Rundschau” and “Bonner Rundschau”. Concurrently he worked as an asset consultant for “Deutsche Vermögensberatung”. In 1986/7 he was curator of monuments for the city of Wesel (Germany), but joined the computer printer manufacturer Mannesmann
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP] Heinrich Böll ; Ernst von Salomon ; Gustaf Gründgens ; Werner Finck Gerhard Ludwig (1909&ndash;1994) was a German bookseller. Born into a very poor working-class family in Berlin, his mother worked in an ammunitions factory, and his father was a beer deliverer and an alcoholic. During the Third Reich he worked for the Frankfurter Zeitung, a newspaper which sheltered non-conformist writers. He was imprisoned in Sachsenhausen between 1941 and 1945, for writing a cheeky post-card about pompous Nazi references to Frederick the Great. He was liberated by the Red Army on April 22 1945, by which time he had developed severe tuberculosis. In 1946, he received a 10.000 Reichsmark credit and took over the bookshop in Cologne main station. Between 1950 and 1956, he illegally used the
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP]
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP] Gerhard Ludwig  Gerhard Ludwig (1909–1994) was a German bookseller.  Born into a very poor working-class family in Berlin, his mother worked in an ammunitions factory, and his father was a beer deliverer and an alcoholic. During the Third Reich he worked for the Frankfurter Zeitung, a newspaper which sheltered non-conformist writers. He was imprisoned in Sachsenhausen between 1941 and 1945, for writing a cheeky post-card about pompous Nazi references to Frederick the Great. He was liberated by the Red Army on April 22, 1945, by which time he had developed severe tuberculosis. In 1946, he received a credit and took over the bookshop in Cologne main station. Between 1950 and 1956, he illegally used the third-class waiting hall in Cologne main station for political and cultural discussion events ("Mittwochgespräche"), which were important for German education in democracy. Well known public figures had to face a crowd and answer questions they would not know beforehand - something completely unknown in Germany before. The events stopped when Cologne main station was re-designed after 1956.  Among the invited guests were and all members of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer's cabinet, with the sole exception of Adenauer himself.  He created the first shop for paperbacks. His shops were leased from the German Railway Authority (Deutsche Bundesbahn), and while he succeeded in cheating on the lease rates for many years, he was eventually found out and - under pressure from creditors - had to sell his shops in 1988.
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP] Gerhard Weinberg  Gerhard Ludwig Weinberg (born 1 January 1928) is a German-born American diplomatic and military historian noted for his studies in the history of Nazi Germany and World War II. Weinberg is the William Rand Kenan, Jr. Professor Emeritus of History at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He has been a member of the history faculty at UNC-Chapel Hill since 1974. Previously he served on the faculties of the University of Michigan (1959–1974) and the University of Kentucky (1957–1959).
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP] Gerd Ludwig  Gerd Ludwig (birth name Gerhard Erich Ludwig, born March 17, 1947 in Alsfeld, Hesse, Germany) is a German-American documentary photographer and photojournalist.
In what city was Gerhard Ludwig born? [SEP] Ernst Jacobi  Ernst Gerhard Ludwig Jacobi-Scherbening, professionally called Ernst Jacobi (; 11 July 1933 – 23 June 2022), was a German actor. He was known for serious character roles, especially in the 1979 film "The Tin Drum" ("Die Blechtrommel"), as Hans in "Germany, Pale Mother" (1980), as Adolf Hitler in "Hamsun" (1996), and as the narrator in "The White Ribbon" (2009). He appeared in over 200 television productions and worked at the Burgtheater in Vienna from 1977 to 1987, and at the Schauspielhaus Zürich from 1987 to 1992. In 1975 he won the Berliner Kunstpreis for his portrayal of Alexander März in the television film "Das Leben des schizophrenen Dichters Alexander März".
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]  According to his birth certificate, he was born in Nîmes in France on 14 August 1842, at 1 am. However, probably due to the midnight birth, Darboux himself usually reported his own birthday as 13 August, e.g. in his filled form for Légion d'Honneur. His parents were François Darboux, businessman of mercery, and Alix Gourdoux. The father died when Gaston was 7. His mother undertook the mercery business with great courage, and insisted that her children receive good education. Gaston had a younger brother, Louis, who taught mathematics at the Lycée Nîmes for almost his entire life. He studied at the Nîmes Lycée and the Montpellier Lycée before being accepted
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]  Louis Gaston was born August 25, 1825 in Pointe-à-Pitre (Guadeloupe), and came to France in 1832, where he studied for the military, following in his father's footsteps. At age 10, he lost his mother, and at age 19, his father. This double wound marked the beginning of his conversion. In 1848, as a young officer—the only practicing Catholic in his class—he discerned a call to become a monk of Solemes, but realized that it was in the world that he was called to serve God. At age 23, he married Anaïs, a girl of 17 years, with whom he began a family that would grow to include 12 children. He was a loving husband and father, showed great love for the Eucharist, and shone especially in
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]  Gaston was born in St. Clairsville, Ohio, in 1833 to parents Joseph Gaston and Nancy Fowler. He was raised in the home of his maternal grandmother, Jean Fowler. He worked on the family farm, attending school during winter sessions. When he was 16, he began teaching school and later worked in a saw mill. Gaston's grand-uncle, William Gaston, had been chief justice of the Supreme Court of North Carolina and founder of Gaston, North Carolina. His cousin, William Gaston, served as Governor of Massachusetts.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]  (Louis Charles Joseph) Gaston de Saporta born in the Château de Montvert in Saint-Zacharie, Var, on July 28, 1823. He was a member of the Provençal nobility. His father was Adolphe Charles François Anne de Saporta (1800-1879) and his mother, Irène Boyer de Fonscolombe de La Mole (1799-1879). He grew up in the Hôtel Boyer de Fonscolombe, a listed hôtel particulier at 21 Rue Gaston de Saporta in Aix-en-Provence, where he resided all his life.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]  Gaston Bouatchidzé (გასტონ ბუაჩიძე) (born October 21, 1935) is a Georgian-French writer and translator. Bouatchidzé was born in Tbilisi, of a Georgian father and French mother who had lived in France for ten years before moving to the Soviet Union in 1934. Bouatchidzé graduated from the Lviv University, Ukrainian SSR, in 1958 and specialized in the French language and literature. He was a professor of French literature at the Tbilisi State University from 1960 to 1990, and an associate professor of comparative literary studies at the University of Nantes from 1991 to 2001. He has translated several pieces of Georgian literature into French, and vice versa. A principal subject of his research is the history of Franco-Georgian literary contacts. He was instrumental in forging sisterly ties between the cities of Nantes and Tbilisi, and in organizing the exhibition of the Georgian painter Pirosmani at the Nantes Museum of Fine Arts in 1999.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP] De Witte  De Witte or Dewitte is Dutch and Flemish for "The White" and may refer to:
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP] List of Belgians  This is a list of notable Belgian people who either:  The list also comprises  The same person may appear under several headings.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP] List of herpetologists  This is a list of herpetologists who are discussed in Wikipedia articles, in alphabetical order by surname. Some articles are from non-English versions of Wikipedia.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP] Patrice Lumumba  Patrice Émery Lumumba (; 2 July 1925 – 17 January 1961) was a Congolese politician and independence leader who served as the first prime minister of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (then known as the Republic of the Congo) from June until September 1960. He was the first democratically elected leader of an African nation. A member of the Congolese National Movement (MNC), he led the MNC from 1958 until his execution in January 1961. Ideologically an African nationalist and pan-Africanist, he played a significant role in the transformation of the Congo from a colony of Belgium into an independent republic.  Shortly after Congolese independence in 1960, a mutiny broke out in the army, marking the beginning of the Congo Crisis. Lumumba appealed to the United States and the United Nations for help to suppress the Belgian-supported Katangan secessionists led by Moïse Tshombe. Both refused, due to suspicions among the Western world that Lumumba secretly held pro-communist views. These suspicions deepened when Lumumba turned to the Soviet Union for assistance, which the CIA described as a "classic communist takeover". This led to growing differences with President Joseph Kasa-Vubu and chief-of-staff Joseph-Désiré Mobutu, as well as with the United States and Belgium, who opposed the Soviet Union in the Cold War.  After Mobutu's military coup, Lumumba attempted to escape to Stanleyville to join his supporters who had established a new anti-Mobutu rival state called the Free Republic of the Congo. Lumumba was captured and imprisoned en route by state authorities under Mobutu. He was handed over to Katangan authorities, and executed in the presence of Katangan and Belgian officials and officers. His body was thrown into a shallow grave, but later dug up and destroyed. Following his execution, he was widely seen as a martyr for the wider pan-African movement. Over the years, inquiries have shed light on the events surrounding Lumumba's death and, in particular, on the roles played by Belgium and the United States. In 2022, a gold-capped tooth, all that remained of his body, was repatriated to the Democratic Republic of the Congo by Belgium.
In what city was Gaston-François de Witte born? [SEP]
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP]  Farman Behboud (1946 - March 2010; ) was an Iranian pianist and piano teacher. He was born in Tehran and studied the piano at the Tehran Conservatory of Music under Emanuel Melik-Aslanian and Ophelia Kombadjian. Behboud gave several recitals and concerts with the NIRT Chamber Orchestra. He was also the pianist of the Persian Ballets Organization in Tehran. Behboud used to teach at the Tehran Conservatory. Since the 1979 Iranian revolution he has preferred to teach private classes. In recent years Behboud has held some recitals for his students in Tehran. Classical pianist, composer, and Ney player Rasool Akbari, renowned Canadian composer, conductor and strategist Joseph Lerner and Peyman Yazdanian were Farman Behboud's students.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP]  Shahroudy was born on December 18, 1922, to educated parents in the religious town of Qazvin in north-western Iran. Farmanfarmaian acquired artistic skills early on in childhood, receiving drawing lessons from a tutor and studying postcard depictions of western art. After studying at the University of Tehran at the Faculty of Fine Art in 1944, she then moved to New York City via steamboat, when World War II derailed her plans to study art in Paris. In New York, she studied at Cornell University, at Parsons The New School for Design, where she majored in fashion illustration, and at the Art Students League of New York.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP]  Ahmed was born in Eritrea. He became a refugee at age 15 during the civil war and fled to Sudan. After attending high school with funding from the UNHCR, he gained a degree in Agricultural Sciences at the University of Alexandria in Egypt. At the age of 22, Ahmed sought asylum in Australia, eventually settling in Melbourne. He drove a taxi and worked as a tram conductor, while earning a master's degree in Animal Science at La Trobe University. Ahmed worked for a decade at the CSIRO, and also gained a PhD in forest sciences at the University of Melbourne. He was latterly a senior research fellow at the Department of Forest and Ecosystem Science, and retains an honorary appointment at the university.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP]  Akbar Behkalam was born in Tabriz, Iran on 16 September 1944, the capital of the Iranian province East Azerbaijan. From 1961 until 1964, he studied art at Tabriz Art School. After his military service he moved to Istanbul, where he enrolled at the Mimar Sinan University in Fine Arts and became the student of professor Bedri Rahmi Eyüboğlu. From 1972 until 1974, he lived in different European cities, including Paris, Frankfurt, Rome and Berlin. In 1974, he went back to Iran, to teach at the Tabriz Art School. In 1976, he left Iran for political reasons, and has since lived in Berlin. As of 1989, he had a studio in Brandenburg. In 1989, he published the book, Movement and Change Paintings and Sketches: 1977–1988. He is married to a German women, and together they have two children.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP]   Prince Abdol Hossein was born to Prince Nosrat Dowleh Firouz in 1857 through his wife Hajieh Homa Khanoum. According to custom, Abdol Hossein was educated at home by private tutors, studying such traditional subjects as poetry, literature, mathematics, Arabic language, and religion, along with perhaps a smattering of modern science. Since 1878, he continued his education at the Austrian Military Academy in Tehran, where he distinguished himself as a soldier and strategist. He also showed himself to be an enthusiastic builder of bridges and roads, with a very keen interest in new Western sciences and social improvements. By 1882, following his time in the academy,
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP] Farman Behboud  Farman Behboud (; 1946 – March 2010) was an Iranian pianist and piano teacher.  He was born in Tehran and studied the piano at the Tehran Conservatory of Music under Emanuel Melik-Aslanian and Ophelia Kombadjian.  Behboud gave several recitals and concerts with the NIRT Chamber Orchestra. He was also the pianist of the Persian Ballets Organization in Tehran.  Behboud used to teach at the Tehran Conservatory. Since the 1979 Iranian revolution he has preferred to teach private classes.  In recent years Behboud has held some recitals for his students in Tehran. Classical pianist, composer, and Ney player Rasool Akbari, renowned Canadian composer, conductor and strategist Joseph Lerner and Peyman Yazdanian were Farman Behboud's students.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP] Pejman Akbarzadeh  Pejman Akbarzadeh (, born 1980) is a Persian-Dutch pianist, journalist, music historian and documentary maker.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP] Peyman Yazdanian  Peyman Yazdanian (, born in 1968) is an Iranian pianist and music composer. He has written over forty pieces for solo piano and has composed for both national and foreign feature films. He wrote original soundtracks for plays and multimedia.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP] Houman Dehlavi  Houman Dehlavi (, born 1971) is an Iranian musician and composer.
In what city was Farman Behboud born? [SEP] initiated in the École Spéciale d'Architecture, where he started to prepare for the Beaux Arts School .The onset of World War II broke the continuity of his studies and had to leave for Iran in 1940 where he stayed until 1945. During this period of worldwide uncertainty he worked at different jobs such as: Teheran Municipality, Karnsaks, and the Ministry of Culture (Vezarate Pishehonar). In 1942 he married with Leila Gharagozlou and formed a family having a son. After the end of World War II Abdol Aziz Farman-Farmaian came back to Paris with his family to continue his studies and
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]  Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla (4 October 1801, Cartago, Costa Rica – 23 May 1856) was head of state of Costa Rica from November to December 1844.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]  Salas was born in Heredia on 2 January 1953. He moved to Tibás when he was thirteen and attended Liceo Mauro Fernández (Mauro Fernández High School). He studied law at the University of Costa Rica, becoming a licentiate. Salas is married with two children.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]  Bonilla's  parents were Adelaida Ruano Marroquín and José María Bonilla Carrillo. He completed his early studies in his native Jalapa. Before he turned seventeen, Bonilla received his teacher-training certificate from the Central Normal School of Professors. Immediately after, he graduated with a bachelor's degree in science and letters from the National Central Institute of men. As Bonilla continued his studies for his bachelor's degree, he was in charge of the direction of the preparatory school annexed to the Institute- making him a secondary school professor for many years. In the Public Education branch, Bonilla was also the head of Normal, Secondary, and Special Education, a professor at the National University (summer courses), and member of the Departmental Board and the Advisory Committee. On 24 October 1930, the Real Academy of Madrid awarded Bonilla his diploma in the class of Foreign Correspondence in Guatemala. Later on, the members of the Guatemalan Academy unanimously voted him in as Censor of said academy.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]  José Ravest y Bonilla (August 1823 &ndash; September 18, 1900) was a Chilean lawyer, writer, and judge. Ravest y Bonilla was born in La Serena, Chile. His parents were Lt. Col. Ramón Ravest y Castillo, who served in the war of independence, and Mrs. Tadea Bonilla. He studied humanities at the Colegio Literario de la Serena and studied natural sciences under the Ignacio Domeyko. From an early age, he was among the best students at his secondary school. In 1837 he began to study teaching at the Liceo de la Serena, distinguishing himself as a remarkable Latinist. Having moved to Santiago, in 1841, he entered the Instituto Nacional, beginning the
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]  Salinas married Maria Bonillas, a Mexican woman who worked for the Mexican National Railways, in San Antonio in 1943. They had a single child, Christina Maria Salinas, who was born in 1945. Maria Bonillas Salinas helped manage her husband's career. The Salinas home and studio was located at 2723 Buena Vista Street in San Antonio. It consists of a small stone home with a detached studio.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP] Juan Rafael Mora Porras  Juan Rafael Mora Porras (8 February 1814, San José, Costa Rica – 30 September 1860) was President of Costa Rica from 1849 to 1859.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP]
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP] List of presidents of Costa Rica  The following article lists the presidents and heads of state of Costa Rica since Central American independence from Spain. From 1824 to 1838 Costa Rica was a state within the Federal Republic of Central America; since then it has been an independent nation.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP] List of heads of state of Costa Rica  The following is the list of all the heads of state of Costa Rica. The current Constitution establishes that the President of Costa Rica is both head of state and head of government, and the current officeholder is Rodrigo Chaves Robles of the Social Democratic Progress Party.
In what city was Francisco María Oreamuno Bonilla born? [SEP] Free State of Costa Rica  The Free State of Costa Rica was the name acquired by Costa Rica after its split from the Federal Republic of Central America in 1838 and until the proclamation of the First Costa Rican Republic in 1847.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP]  Simonson was born in Duluth, Minnesota.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP]  Robert Simonson was born in Wisconsin; he has lived in Brooklyn since 1988.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP]  Martin Simonson is a Swedish scholar, novelist, and translator, specialized in fantasy literature and science fiction. He teaches at the University of the Basque Country in Spain, and is mainly known for being the Spanish translator of some of the works of J.R.R. Tolkien. Simonson, who was born in Göteborg, Sweden, in 1973, holds a Ph.D. in English literature (March 2006). Before moving to Spain, he studied psychology, anthropology and creative writing at the University of Göteborg and Fridhems Folkhögskola. He is the author of various novels, among others The Wind of the Wild Lands, the first part of the saga The Faceless Keeper, which takes place in a parallel world and explores themes of identity, personal relationships, the power of nature and spirituality. He has written and edited a number of books on fantasy, science fiction, Western American literature and Gothic horror, and he has translated novels, plays, and graphic novels from English, Swedish and Norwegian into Spanish. Simonson has also published various books and articles on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP]  Martin Andreasson (born 1 October 1970 in Malmö), is a Swedish Liberal People's Party politician, a member of the Riksdag 2002&ndash;2006. He is openly gay. He is also an active member of Swedish science fiction fandom.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP]  Mark Simonson (born 1955) is an American independent type designer who works in St. Paul, Minnesota.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP] Martin Simonson  Martin Simonson is a Swedish scholar, novelist, and translator, specialized in fantasy literature and science fiction. He teaches at the University of the Basque Country in Spain, and is mainly known for being the Spanish translator of some of the works of J.R.R. Tolkien.  Simonson, who was born in Göteborg, Sweden, in 1973, holds a Ph.D. in English literature (March 2006). Before moving to Spain, he studied psychology, anthropology and creative writing at the University of Göteborg and Fridhems Folkhögskola. He is the author of various novels, among others "The Wind of the Wild Lands", the first part of the saga "The Faceless Keeper", which takes place in a parallel world and explores themes of identity, personal relationships, the power of nature and spirituality. He has written and edited a number of books on fantasy, science fiction, Western American literature and Gothic horror, and he has translated novels, plays, and graphic novels from English, Swedish and Norwegian into Spanish. Simonson has also published various books and articles on the works of J.R.R. Tolkien and on the representation of nature in fantasy literature, most recently "From East to West: The Portrayal of Nature in British Fantasy and its Projection in Ursula K. Le Guin's Western American "Earthsea"", published in 2021.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP] Simonson  Simonson is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP] Simonsen  Simonsen is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP] Walt Simonson  Walter Simonson (born September 2, 1946) is an American comic book writer and artist, best known for a run on Marvel Comics' "Thor" from 1983 to 1987, during which he created the character Beta Ray Bill. He is also known for the creator-owned work "Star Slammers", which he inaugurated in 1972 as a Rhode Island School of Design thesis. He has also worked on other Marvel titles such as "X-Factor" and "Fantastic Four", on DC Comics books including "Detective Comics", "Manhunter", "Metal Men" and "Orion", and on licensed properties such as "Star Wars", "Alien", "Battlestar Galactica" and "Robocop vs. Terminator".  Simonson has won numerous awards for his work and has influenced artists such as Arthur Adams and Todd McFarlane.  He is married to comics writer Louise Simonson, with whom he collaborated as penciller on "X-Factor" from 1986 to 1989, and with whom he made a cameo appearance in the 2011 "Thor" feature film.
In what city was Martin Simonson born? [SEP] Allan Simonsen (racing driver)  Allan Simonsen (5 July 1978 – 22 June 2013) was a Danish racing driver, born in Odense. He died after a crash during the third lap of the 2013 24 Hours of Le Mans.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP]  Mimoun Ouled Radi (born 5 June 1977) is a Dutch actor. He was born into a Moroccan family of seven in Amsterdam, Netherlands. He is best known for his role as 'Rachid Boussabon' in the Hush Hush Baby series.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP]  Mimoun El Oujdi (ميمون الوجدي) was a Moroccan singer raï genre of music. Like other Maghrebi raï singers, he is habitually given the title "Cheb" (الشاب), meaning "young", and is usually known as Cheb Mimoun El Oujdi (الشاب ميمون الوجدي). He was born Mimoun Bakoush (ميمون بكوش) in Oujda in 1950; Oujda is approximately fifteen kilometres from the Algerian border. Mimoun El Oujdi released 18 albums between 1982 and 2012, including Barmān (1985), Alamāne (1995) and Soulouh (2008). He died in November 2018.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP]  He was born in Beni Said, Nador Province, Morocco and graduated from Amsterdam Theatre School in 1999 and followed acting lessons abroad. He was a stage actor from 1998 till 2001 and then quit to start acting on screen. His major films include Hush Hush Baby and Schnitzel Paradise. For his role in the latter he won the 2005 Golden Calf Award for Best Supporting Actor.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP]  M'hamed Issiakhem born on the 17th of June 1928 in Taboudoucht, a small village near Azeffoun, around 43 kilometers from Tizi Ouzou (Algeria). In 1931 his family moved to Relizane where he spent most of his childhood. In 1943 he handled a stolen grenade, from a French military camp, which exploded. Two sisters and a nephew of his died. Hospitalized for two years, he lost his left arm. Between 1947 and 1951 he was in the Student Society of Fine Arts at the School of Fine Arts of Algiers and followed the courses of miniaturiste Omar Racim. Between 1953 and 1958 he attended the Ecole des Beaux-Arts de
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP]  Mimoun got married in May 2017and he has a daughter named Sofia.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP] Mimoun Ouled Radi  Mimoun Ouled Radi (born 5 June 1977) is a Dutch actor. He was born into a Moroccan family of seven in Amsterdam, Netherlands. He is best known for his role as 'Rachid Boussabon' in the "Hush Hush Baby" series.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP] Mimoun (name)  Mimoun or Mimun may refer to the following people
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP] List of Moroccan people  This list of Moroccan people includes people who were born in Morocco and people who are of Moroccan ancestry, who are significantly notable for their life and/or work.
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP] List of Moroccan Dutch people  The following is a referenced list of notable Dutch people of Moroccan origin. Some of the people listed below are immigrants; others are of the second generation. Large-scale immigration to the Netherlands started on 14 May 1969, when the Netherlands and Morocco signed a treaty allowing recruitment of mostly unschooled labourers to work in Dutch mining, industry, construction and agriculture. Most guest workers intended to earn lots of money in a relatively short period and then return home. The fact that their number has risen to over 335,000 people, or over 2 percent of the Dutch population, proves many changed their minds. When the 1973 oil crisis hit the Netherlands, demand for labour greatly diminished and many guest workers lost their jobs.  Before the 1990s, immigration policy was a taboo in the Netherlands, leaving many social problems of immigrants undealt with. Today the situation seems to be getting better, with many prominent Moroccans achieving success in sports (e.g. football player Khalid Boulahrouz), music (e.g. singer Hind Laroussi) and politics (e.g. Rotterdam mayor Ahmed Aboutaleb).
In what city was Mimoun Ouled Radi born? [SEP] Algeria  Algeria, officially the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, is a country in North Africa. Algeria is bordered to the northeast by Tunisia; to the east by Libya; to the southeast by Niger; to the southwest by Mali, Mauritania, and Western Sahara; to the west by Morocco; and to the north by the Mediterranean Sea. It is considered part of the Maghreb region of North Africa. It has a semi-arid geography, with most of the population living in the fertile north and the Sahara dominating the geography of the south. Algeria covers an area of , making it the world's tenth largest nation by area, and the largest nation in Africa, being more than 200 times as large as the smallest country in the continent, The Gambia. With a population of 44 million, Algeria is the ninth-most populous country in Africa, and the 32nd-most populous country in the world. The capital and largest city is Algiers, located in the far north on the Mediterranean coast.  Algeria produced and is linked to many civilizations, empires and dynasties, including ancient Numidians, Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Romans, Vandals, Byzantines, Umayyads, Abbasids, Rustamids, Idrisids, Aghlabids, Fatimids, Zirids, Hammadids, Almoravids, Almohads, Zayyanids, Spaniards, Ottomans and the French colonial empire, with the latter expanded into its present-boundaries. After 132 years of being part of France, tensions between France and the local Algerian populace led to the start of the Algerian War which concluded with Algeria obtaining its independence on 5 July 1962 with the establishment of the People's Democratic Republic on 20 September of that year.  The official languages of Algeria are Arabic and Berber. The majority of Algeria's population is Arab, practicing Islam.<ref name="CIA" /> The native Algerian Arabic is the main spoken language. French also serves as an administrative and educational language in some contexts, but it has no official status.  Algeria is a semi-presidential republic, with local constituencies consisting of 58 provinces and 1,541 communes. Algeria is a regional power in North Africa, and a middle power in global affairs. It has the highest Human Development Index of all non-island African countries and one of the largest economies on the continent, based largely on energy exports. Algeria has the world's sixteenth-largest oil reserves and the ninth-largest reserves of natural gas. Sonatrach, the national oil company, is the largest company in Africa, supplying large amounts of natural gas to Europe. Algeria's military is one of the largest in Africa, and has the largest defence budget on the continent. It is a member of the African Union, the Arab League, the OIC, OPEC, the United Nations, and the Arab Maghreb Union, of which it is a founding member.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP]  Galea was born in Toronto and grew up in Etobicoke. He earned his undergraduate degree from the University of Waterloo in Health Studies and then earned his medical degree at McMaster University in Hamilton in 1986.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP]  Anthony Gale (born 12 May 1993) is a Canadian ice sledge hockey player. Born in Toronto in 1993 to Tony and Anna Gale with spina bifida, Gale began playing sledge hockey around 2000 at the age of seven, with the Halton Peel Cruisers Sports for the Physically Disabled. He played with their junior and intermediate sledge hockey teams, winning their MVP award in 2004 and 2005 and captaining the junior team. With the Cruisers, he also played wheelchair basketball. Gale was named to Canada men's national ice sledge hockey team in 2010 at the age of 17. He won a gold medal with the team at the 2013 IPC Ice Sledge Hockey World Championships. He won a bronze medal at the Sochi 2014 Winter Paralympics in the men's ice sledge hockey tournament. He is an alumnus of St. Thomas Aquinas Secondary School in Brampton.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP]  Anthony Galea (born August 19, 1959) is a Canadian doctor who specializes in sports medicine and director of the ISM Health & Wellness Center Inc. in Toronto, Ontario.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP]  His date of birth is in dispute. It is variously reported to be in 1761 or on September 17, 1782, in Dublin, Ireland. He was commissioned as a second lieutenant on July 26, 1798. According to a transcript of a October 23, 1838 letter to President Martin Van Buren, Anthony Gale writes (in part): "as a military man that I embraced in my nineteenth year", which would place his birth in 1779–1780. Born in Ireland to Anthony Gale and Ann Delany, Gale declared his intent to become a United States citizen on June 15, 1798, and completed the naturalization process on November 27, 1801. Ireland land records  involving his mother Ann Delany suggest Gale was born in Queen's County, Ireland, subsequently renamed County Laois. Gale married Catherine Swope on January 4, 1800, in Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. The couple settled in Philadelphia and had three children – Amelia, who died after four weeks; a son, Washington Anthony; and another daughter, Emily, both of whom survived into adulthood.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP]  Anthony Gale was the fourth Commandant of the United States Marine Corps and the only one ever fired. Fewer records survive concerning him than any other commandant. He is the only commandant for whom the Marines neither know his burial location nor have a portrait or likeness.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP] Anthony Gale  Anthony Gale was the fourth Commandant of the United States Marine Corps and the only one ever fired. Fewer records survive concerning him than any other commandant.<ref name=GroupedRef1/> He is the only commandant for whom the Marines neither know his burial location nor have a portrait or likeness.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP] Anthony Gale (sledge hockey)  Anthony Gale (born 12 May 1993) is a Canadian ice sledge hockey player.  Born in Toronto in 1993 to Tony and Anna Gale with spina bifida, Gale began playing sledge hockey around 2000 at the age of seven, with the Halton Peel Cruisers Sports for the Physically Disabled. He played with their junior and intermediate sledge hockey teams, winning their MVP award in 2004 and 2005 and captaining the junior team. With the Cruisers, he also played wheelchair basketball. Gale was named to Canada men's national ice sledge hockey team in 2010 at the age of 17. He won a gold medal with the team at the 2013 IPC Ice Sledge Hockey World Championships. He won a bronze medal at the Sochi 2014 Winter Paralympics in the men's ice sledge hockey tournament.  He is an alumnus of St. Thomas Aquinas Secondary School in Brampton.<ref name="brampton" />
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP] Tony Gale  Anthony Peter Gale (born 19 November 1959) is an English football coach, former professional footballer and television pundit for Sky Sports. He is also the chairman of non-league club Walton Casuals.  As a player, he made 636 appearances as a defender from 1977 until 1998, notably in the Premier League with West Ham United and Blackburn Rovers, where he won the title in 1995. He also played for Fulham, Crystal Palace and Maidenhead United.  Since retiring he has worked as a pundit, co-commentator and sports writer, notably for Premier League productions, Sky Sports and former clubs West Ham and Fulham.
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP] Gale (surname)  Gale is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Anthony Gale born? [SEP] Anthony Galea  Anthony Galea (born August 19, 1959) is a Canadian doctor who specializes in sports medicine and director of the ISM Health & Wellness Center Inc. in Toronto, Ontario.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]  Born in Osaka, Japan. Lives in Beaverton, Oregon.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]  Shinji Hamazaki (浜崎 真二, 10 December 1901 – May 6, 1981) was a former Japanese baseball player and manager. Thought short in stature, Hamazaki was well known for his forceful personality. He is a member of the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame. Hamazaki attended Hiroshima Shogyo High School and Keio University. Hamazaki was signed at age 45 by the Hankyu Braves in 1947 prior to the draft, having previously played for the Chinese mainland Industrial League Mantetsu Club. He began as a player-manager for the Braves. In 1950, at age 48 years, 4 months, Hamazki became the oldest Japanese pitcher to win a professional game. That record stood until September 5, 2014, when Masahiro Yamamoto, aged 49 years, 25 days, defeated the Hanshin Tigers. Finally retiring as a player in 1950, Hamazaki continued managing the Braves through 1953. He later managed the Takahashi/Tombo Unions and the Kokutetsu Swallows. His career managing record was 535-639, a .456 winning percentage.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]  Having spent three years in St Ives with Bernard Leach, he returned to Japan in 1923 and traveled to potteries and stayed at Tsuboya in Okinawa Prefecture for weeks, then eventually established his workshop in Mashiko, about 100 km north-east of Tokyo. Here, he built his own pottery and committed himself to using only locally sourced materials, not only in the clay he used, but also the glazes he created and the brushes he manufactured himself from dog hair and bamboo. In 1955 the Japanese government designated him "Living National Treasure", the first time for someone from the field of crafts. The previous year on 29 May 1954, the Cultural Property Protection Act had been amended, and a new Preservers of Important Intangible Cultural Properties (Jūyō Mukei Bunkazai
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]  Hamada was born in Kawasaki, Japan, in 1894 named Shoji (象ニ). After finishing elitist Hibiya High School, he studied ceramics at Tokyo Institute of Technology, then known as Tokyo Industrial College with Kawai Kanjirō under Itaya Hazan. As the sole students in the school interested in becoming artist-potters, Hamada and the slightly elder Kawai were soon friends, touring the city in search of inspiration. They worked together in Kyoto at the former body of the Kyoto Municipal Institute of Industrial Technology and Culture where they experimented on glazes using various minerals. They were acquainted by Yanagi Sōetsu and Tomimoto Kenkichi while visiting potteries and exhibitions. Hamada was deeply impressed by a Tokyo exhibition of ceramic art by Bernard Leach, who was then staying with Yanagi Sōetsu, and wrote to Leach seeking an introduction. The two found much in common and became good friends, so much so that Hamada asked and was granted permission to accompany Leach to England in 1920 when the latter decided to return and establish a pottery there.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]  Jojo was born in Hamura on August 28, 1977. After graduating from high school, he joined Urawa Reds in 1996. From 1997, he played several matches as left side midfielder and left side back. However, his ability to play decreased from 2000. He moved to Albirex Niigata on loan in September 2002 and he returned to Urawa Reds in 2003. However he could hardly play in the match. He moved to Shonan Bellmare in 2004. He played many matches as left side back. He retired end of 2006 season.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP] Shinji Hamazaki  Shinji Hamazaki (浜崎 真二, 10 December 1901 – May 6, 1981) was a former Japanese baseball player and manager. Thought short in stature, Hamazaki was well known for his forceful personality. He is a member of the Japanese Baseball Hall of Fame.  Hamazaki attended Hiroshima Shogyo High School and Keio University.<ref name=HOF />  Hamazaki was signed at age 45 by the Hankyu Braves in 1947 prior to the draft, having previously played for the Chinese mainland Industrial League Mantetsu Club. He began as a player-manager for the Braves.  In 1950, at age 48 years, 4 months, Hamazki became the oldest Japanese pitcher to win a professional game. That record stood until September 5, 2014, when Masahiro Yamamoto, aged 49 years, 25 days, defeated the Hanshin Tigers.  Finally retiring as a player in 1950, Hamazaki continued managing the Braves through 1953. He later managed the Takahashi/Tombo Unions and the Kokutetsu Swallows. His career managing record was 535-639, a .456 winning percentage.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP] Hamasaki  Hamasaki or Hamazaki (written: lit. "beach peninsula") is a Japanese surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP] Masahiro Yamamoto (baseball)  Masahiro 'Masa' Yamamoto (, born August 11, 1965, in Chigasaki, Kanagawa Prefecture) is a left-handed, retired Japanese professional baseball pitcher. A screwballer, Yamamoto pitched for the Chunichi Dragons in Japan's Nippon Professional Baseball for 29 years from 1986 to 2015. He is the oldest Japanese pitcher to win a baseball game. With 200+ career victories, he is a member of Meikyukai.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP] O'Neal Pullen  O'Neal Pullen (September 8, 1892 – April 19, 1944) was an American Negro league catcher for the Brooklyn Royal Giants and Baltimore Black Sox in the early 1920s.  A native of Beaumont, Texas, Pullen served in the US Army in France during World War I. He began his Negro leagues career in 1920 with the Brooklyn Royal Giants, and later played for the Baltimore Black Sox. Pullen spent the majority of his professional baseball career in the integrated California Winter League, and also was one of the first American baseball professionals to tour Japan.  Pullen died in Los Angeles, California in 1944 at age 51.
In what city was Shinji Hamazaki born? [SEP]
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]  He was born on 12 October 1886 in Wingerworth, Derbyshire, England. He was the only son of Harold Soames (1855-1918), brewer, later of Gray Rigg, Lilliput, Dorset (whose brother founded the landed gentry Soames family of Sheffield Park) and his wife Katherine Mary (1851-1932), daughter of George Hill. He was the brother of Olave St. Clair Baden-Powell, World Chief Guide.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]  Soames was born in Brighton, the son of William Aldwin Soames. He was educated at Brighton College, the public school which his father had founded in 1845, and in 1871 he went up to Trinity College, Cambridge where he obtained his BA in 1877 and MA in 1881. In 1876 he married Eveline, the daughter of T. Horsman Coles from Ore in East Sussex. They had three sons and two daughters. Of the three sons, two, Gilbert and Maurice, were killed during the First World War.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]  Henry Soames (18 January 1843&ndash; 30 August 1913) was an English cricketer. Soames' batting style is unknown. He was born at Brighton, Sussex, and was educated at Brighton College. His father, William Aldwin Soames, had founded the college in 1845. Soames made a single first-class appearance for Hampshire against Kent in 1867 at B. M. Close's Ground, Southborough. Hampshire won the toss and elected to bat first, with the county making 41 all out in their first-innings, with Soames being dismissed for 2 runs by George Bennett. Kent then made 231 all out in their first-innings, to which Hampshire responded to in their second-innings by making 212 all out, with Soames top-scoring in the innings with 52, before he was dismissed by Charles Payne. Kent went on to win the match by nine wickets. This was his only major appearance for the county. Soames died at Salisbury, Wiltshire, on 30 August 1913. His brother, William, played first-class cricket for Sussex.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]  Soames was educated at St Aubyns School in Rottingdean, East Sussex, and Eton College, and then Worcester College, Oxford, where he studied Politics, Philosophy and Economics (PPE). While at Oxford he worked as a DJ at the London nightclub Annabel's and was a member of the Bullingdon Club, as well as being elected to the Presidency of the Oxford Union.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]  David Michael Soames (born 10 December 1984) is an English former professional footballer who played as a forward from 2002 to 2006. He played in the Football League for Grimsby Town from 2002 until 2005, but retired a year later aged just 21, due to a persistent injury problem that hampered most of his playing career. He now works for North East Lincolnshire Council as a community sports coach.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP] William Soames  William Aldwin Soames (10 July 1850 – 27 December 1916) was an English cricketer. Soames was a right-handed batsman. He was born at Brighton, Sussex, and was educated at Brighton College, which his father, William Aldwin Soames, had founded in 1845, and at Trinity College, Cambridge.  Soames made his first-class debut for Sussex against Hampshire at the Green Jackets Ground, Winchester, in 1875. He made two further first-class appearances for the county in 1875, against Hampshire at the County Ground, Hove, and Gloucestershire at the College Ground, Cheltenham. In his three first-class matches for the county, he scored 17 runs at an average of 3.40, with a high score of 17. His 17 runs all came in the first-innings of his first match against Hampshire, thereafter he failed to score in four consecutive innings. According to "Scores and Biographies", "[he] is a good average bat and fields well at long-leg or cover-point."  He died at Bank station in the City of London on 27 December 1916. His brother, Henry, played first-class cricket for Hampshire.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP] Henry Soames  Henry Soames (18 January 1843 — 30 August 1913) was an English first-class cricketer and British Army officer.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP] Descendants of Winston Churchill  Sir Winston Churchill, son of Lord and Lady Randolph Churchill, and grandson of the 7th Duke of Marlborough, was Prime Minister of the United Kingdom between 10 May 1940 – 26 July 1945 and 26 October 1951 – 6 April 1955.  In 1908, Churchill married Clementine Hozier, the daughter of Sir Henry and Lady Blanche Hozier. By Clementine, Churchill had five children and ten grandchildren, a number of whom are well known in their own right.
In what city was Henry Soames born? [SEP]
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP]  Karl Bartholomaeus Heller (20 November 1824 – 14 December 1880) was an Austrian botanist and naturalist who explored Mexico in 1845–48 and published his memoir. In the latter year Johann Jakob Heckel published the livebearing freshwater Green swordtail (Xiphophorus helleri), since the early 20th century a common aquarium fish, from specimens Heller deposited in Vienna. Born in Moravia, Heller was a professor at the Theresianum in Vienna. Among Heller's later works is his defense of Darwinism, Darwin und der Darwinismus, 1869.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP]  Heller was born in Pest, Hungary in 1815. He had been destined for a legal career, but instead decided to devote his life to music. At the age of nine he performed Jan Ladislav Dussek's Concerto for Two Pianos with his teacher, F. Brauer, at the Budapest Theater. He played so well that he was sent to study in Vienna, Austria, under Carl Czerny. Unable to afford Czerny's expensive fees, he became a student of Anton Halm. After a success in the first public concert in Vienna at the age of 15, his father undertook a concert tour through Hungary, Poland and Germany. Heller returned to Budapest by way of Kassel, Frankfurt, Nuremberg, Hamburg, and Augsburg. After passing the winter of 1829 at Hamburg, he was taken ill at Augsburg in the summer of 1830. He
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP]  Karl Camillo Schmidt-Hellerau (1 February 1873 – 6 November 1948) was a German carpenter, furniture manufacturer and social reformer. He was born in Zschopau, and is notable as the founder of Hellerau, Germany's first garden city, where he died.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP]  Heller was born in Karlsbad, Bohemia (now Karlovy Vary, Česko). He attended the University of Prague, followed by the universities of Munich, Vienna, and Berlin. He came to the United States in 1883 as a tutor and secured the post of instructor in Greek at LaSalle College in Philadelphia in 1887. Heller received his doctor’s degree from the University of Chicago in 1890. Heller taught briefly at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before becoming a professor of German language and literature at Washington University in 1892. In 1914, Heller was made professor of modern European literature in addition to his original professorship, and in 1924 he became the first dean of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, a post he held until he became dean emeritus in 1937. Heller died on 28 July 1941 at his summer cottage in Bellaire, Michigan.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP]  Karl Borromaeus Maria Josef Heller (21 March 1864, Rappoltenkirchen, Tulln (district) – 25 December 1945, Dresden), was an Austrian entomologist who specialised in Coleoptera. He was a Professor and Section leader in the Staatliches Museum für Tierkunde Dresden where his collection is maintained. Heller was a taxonomist. He described many new species of world fauna. He was a Member of the Stettin Entomological Society.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP] Karl Bartholomaeus Heller  Karl Bartholomaeus Heller (20 November 1824 – 14 December 1880) was an Austrian botanist and naturalist who explored Mexico in 1845–48 and published his memoir. In the latter year Johann Jakob Heckel published the livebearing freshwater Green swordtail ("Xiphophorus helleri"), since the early 20th century a common aquarium fish, from specimens Heller deposited in Vienna. Born in Moravia, Heller was a professor at the Theresianum in Vienna. Among Heller's later works is his defense of Darwinism, "Darwin und der Darwinismus", 1869.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP] Heller (surname)  Heller is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP] Green swordtail  The green swordtail ("Xiphophorus hellerii") is a species of freshwater/brackish fish in family Poeciliidae of order Cyprinodontiformes. A live-bearer, it is closely related to the southern platyfish or 'platy' ("X. maculatus") and can crossbreed with it. It is native to an area of North and Central America stretching from Veracruz, Mexico, to northwestern Honduras.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP] List of sources for the Crusades  The list of sources for the Crusades provides those contemporaneous written accounts and other artifacts of the Crusades covering the period from the Council of Clermont in 1095 until the fall of Acre in 1291. These sources include chronicles, personal accounts, official documents and archaeological findings. As such, these lists provide the medieval of the Crusades.  A number of 17th through 19th century historians published numerous collections of original sources of the Crusades. These include "Recueil des historiens des croisades" (RHC), "Monumenta Germaniae Historica" (MGH), "Revue de l'Orient Latin/Archives de l’Orient Latin" (ROL/AOL) and the Rolls Series. Other collections are of interest to the Crusader period include "Recueil des historiens des Gaules et de la France" (RHF), "Rerum Italicarum scriptores" (RISc), "Patrologia Latina" (MPL), "Patrologia Graeco-Latina" (MPG), "Patrologia Orientalis" (PO), "Corpus Scriptorum Christianorum Orientalium" (CSCO) and Palestine Pilgrims' Text Society (PPTS).  Modern reference material to these sources include Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition, Oxford Dictionary of Byzantium, Dictionary of National Biography, Neue Deutsche Biographie, Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church, Oxford Dictionary of the Middle Ages, Catholic Encyclopedia, Encyclopedia of the Medieval Chronicle, "Encyclopædia Iranica," "Encyclopædia Islamica" and "Encyclopaedia of Islam". Contemporary histories include the three-volume "A History of the Crusades" (1951–1954) by Steven Runciman; the Wisconsin collaborative study "A" "History of the Crusades" (1969–1989) edited by Kenneth M. Setton, particularly the Select Bibliography by Hans E. Mayer; Fordham University's "Internet Medieval Sourcebook"; and "The Crusades: An Encyclopedia," edited by Alan V. Murray. Section::::Principal Western sources for the history of the Crusades. The Western sources for the history of the Crusades begin with the original Latin chronicles. Later works on the First Crusade were mostly derived from these and are exemplified by William of Tyre's "Historia" and its continuations. The later Crusades produced a vast library of first-hand accounts, biographies and chronicles. Other sources include official documents and communications, personal letters and accounts, and topics such as archaeology and numismatics.
In what city was Karl Bartholomaeus Heller born? [SEP] Erich Heller Erich Heller (27 March 1911 – 5 November 1990) was a British essayist, known particularly for his critical studies in German-language philosophy and literature of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Heller was born at Chomutov in Bohemia (then within Austria-Hungary, now the Czech Republic), to the family of a Jewish physician. He graduated a doctor of law from the German University in Prague (Deutsche Universität in Prag, Juridische Fakultät) on 11 February 1935, at the age of 23. In 1939 he emigrated to the United Kingdom, where he began his professional career as a Germanist, being active at
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]  Suárez was born in Gijón, where he held his first exhibition when he was 19 years old at the Escuela Superior de Comercio. He mixed his surrealistic imagination with images of his life: the city, people and self-portraits. He also worked for magazines drawing comics strips or even designing for dishes and ceramics. In 1934, he had an exhibition in the Modern Art Museum of Madrid (currently Museo Reina Sofía).
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]  Suárez was born and raised in Monte Caseros, a town in the province of Corrientes, where he grew up in “a humble family.” His father was a carpenter, and his mother a hairdresser. He had two brothers and a sister. His brother Antonio, who was in turn president of the Social Work SOMU and head of the AFJP (Administradoras de Fondos de Jubilaciones y Pensiones) San José, died under “strange” circumstances but was ruled a suicide.
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]  Suárez was born in Salto, Uruguay to Sandra Diaz and Rodolfo Suárez, the fourth of seven boys. His older brother, Paolo Suárez, is a retired professional footballer, who last played for Isidro Metapán in El Salvador. Suárez moved with his family to Montevideo when he was seven, and his parents separated when he was nine. In Montevideo, he developed his football skills on the streets, while also taking up work as a street sweeper at the age of 15. The contrast between his life in Europe and the poverty he left behind has been cited as contributing to his periodic aggression on the field, as well as being a possible explanation for the more
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]  He was born on May 21, 1949, in Las Villas, Cuba. Suarez attended the Colegio de Belén but graduated from St. Anselm's Abbey School in 1967. He earned a Bachelor of Engineering from Villanova University in 1971, followed by a Master of Public Administration and Juris Doctor from Harvard University.
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]  Suárez was born in Barakaldo, Basque Country in Spain and is the son of filmmaker Julio Suárez Vega known for his adventure comedy At Full Gallop and Tritones. His family moved to Léon when he was one year-old. Suárez first experienced working with film when he helped his father shoot short films with Super 8 camera. In 1999, Suarez began his professional career as a storyboard artist, working under the guidance of renown Spanish directors Achero Mañas and Daniel Monzón. In 2005, Suarez co-directed his first short film Escorzo with Guillermo Navajo.
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP] Xavier Suarez  Xavier Louis Suarez (born May 21, 1949) is an American politician who was the first Cuban-born Mayor of Miami and was a Miami-Dade county commissioner.
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]
In what city was Javier Suárez born? [SEP]
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]  Anatol Ugorski was born into a poor background and is the eldest of five children. In 1945 his parents moved to Leningrad where he attended his first school, singing and playing the xylophone. At the age of six he passed selection for the Saint Petersburg Conservatory where he studied until 1960. He was subsequently admitted to the Conservatory of Leningrad in the piano class of Nadezhda Gouloubovskaia with whom he worked until 1965. As a student he attracted attention through the interpretation of avant-garde pieces; abandoning the repertoire traditionally devoted to Russian pianists, he played in the USSR some of the works of controversial Western composers such as Arnold Schönberg (Pierrot Lunaire), Alban Berg, Olivier Messiaen and Pierre Boulez, assisted by his
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]  Anatol Ugorski (in Анатолий Угорский, born 28 September 1942 in Rubtsovsk, Altai Krai, Soviet Union) is a classical pianist of Russian origin who lives in Germany.
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]  Anatoli Georgievich Vitushkin was born on 25 June 1931 in Moscow. He was blind.
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]  Victor Nemtsev (January 16, 1936 - November 9, 2018) was a Chuvash painter and member of the Union of Artists of the USSR (1967). He was born in the village of Votlany, Komsomol district, Chuvash ASSR, and died in Cheboksary, Chuvash Republic.
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]  Nicholas B. Vassilieve was born on 26th of November 1875 in the village of Uglich in the Governorate of Yaroslavl, His father, a native peasant, later became a member of the merchant class in St. Petersburg.
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP]
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP] Pyotr Ufimtsev  Pyotr Yakovlevich Ufimtsev (sometimes also Petr; ) (born 1931 in Ust-Charyshskaya Pristan, West Siberian Krai, now Altai Krai) is a Soviet/Russian physicist and mathematician, considered the seminal force behind modern stealth aircraft technology. In the 1960s he began developing equations for predicting the reflection of electromagnetic waves from simple two-dimensional and three-dimensional objects.  Much of Ufimtsev's work was translated into English, and in the 1970s American Lockheed engineers began to expand upon some of his theories to create the concept of aircraft with reduced radar signatures.
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP] Vladimir Vetchinkin  Vladimir Petrovich Vetchinkin () (June 29, 1888 - March 6, 1950) was a Soviet scientist in the field of aerodynamics, aeronautics, and wind energy, Doctor of Technical Sciences (1927), Honored Science Worker of the RSFSR (1946).
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP] Genrikh Kasparyan  Genrikh Kasparyan (; 27 February 1910 in Tbilisi – 27 December 1995 in Yerevan) was a Soviet chess player. He is considered to have been one of the greatest composers of chess endgame studies. Outside Armenia, he is better known by the Russian version of his name Genrikh Moiseyevich Kasparyan or Kasparian ().  Kasparyan became a national master in 1936 and an international master in 1950. He was awarded the titles of International Judge of Chess Compositions in 1956 and International Grandmaster of Chess Composition in 1972, the first composer to receive this title from FIDE .  Kasparyan was also an active chess player, winning the Armenian championship ten times (from 1934 to 1956, including two ties with future World Champion Tigran Petrosian) and the Tiflis championship three times (1931, 1937, 1945). He reached the USSR Championship finals four times (1931, 1937, 1947, 1952), but never finished higher than tenth place.  Kasparyan is best known for his compositions. He started with chess problems, mainly three-movers, but soon discovered that his best field was in endgame studies. He wrote several books and collections and composed about 600 studies, many on the theme of domination, winning 57 first prizes. He won the USSR Composing Championship several times .
In what city was Anatoly Georgievich Ufimtsev born? [SEP] Rashid Nezhmetdinov  Rashid Gibiatovich Nezhmetdinov (Tatar: , ; ; December 15, 1912 – June 3, 1974) was a Soviet chess player, chess writer, and checkers player. Though he never attained the title of Grandmaster, he was a renowned tactician and created several brilliant games. Biographer Alex Pishkin compares him to Chigorin, Réti and Spielmann.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP]  Domenico Bologna (born in Turin August 22, 1845 – 1885) was an Italian painter, mainly of landscapes with figures. He trained under professors Antonio Fontanesi and Francesco Gamba in Accademia Albertina. Among his works are: Dopo Vespro, exhibited in 1875 at Milan; Tramonto, exhibited in 1881 at Milan; Il Tanaro, bought by the Società promotrice of Fine Arts in Genoa; Le sponde del Po at Turin, sold in 1878 at St Petersburg, Russia, Le sponde del Tanaro; Inverno ; Pascolo; and Tramonto, exhibited in 1883 at Rome.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP]  the Bologna Chamber Orchestra in 1946, 7 February 1915 – 13 December 2007) ; Umberto Eco (writer and academic, born in Alessandria, Piedmont, 1932–2016) ; Enzio of Sardinia (born c. 1218, King of Sardinia and illegitimate son of Emperor Frederick II, was imprisoned in Palazzo Re Enzo from 1249 until his death in 1272) ; Vasco Errani (politician, born 1955) ; William Girometti (painter, born in Milan, 1924–1998) ; Alfonso Lombardi (sculptor, born in Ferrara, c. 1497–1537) ; Niccolò dell'Arca (sculptor, born in Bari, c. 1435/1440–2 March 1494) ; Juan Ignacio Molina (naturalist, born in Chile, 1740–1829) ; Giovanni Pascoli (poet and
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP]  born in San Mauro di Romagna, 1855–1912) ; St. Petronius (San Petronio, bishop of Bologna and patron saint of the city, birthplace unknown, died c. 450 AD) ; Romano Prodi (economist, politician, born in Scandiano, Reggio Emilia, 1939) ; Gioachino Rossini (opera composer, born in Pesaro, 1792–1868) ; Giuseppe Torelli (composer, born in Verona, 1658–1709) ; Wu Ming (collective of writers, active since 2000) ; Farinelli (Carlo Broschi, castrato opera singer, 1705–1782) ; Giorgio Rosa (engineer, president of short-lived micronation Republic of Rose Island, 1925–2017) In addition to the natives of the city listed above, the following have made Bologna their home:
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP]  Domenico Pedrini (Bologna, 1728 - Bologna, 1800) was an Italian painter. Fiercely provincial in his geographic activity, Pedrini's works were mainly completed in and around Bologna, and yet his atavistic style strayed far afield into Bologna's strong Baroque ancestry.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP]  Born in Bologna, Domenico was one of four sons of Annibale Ferrabosco, members of a distinguished Bolognese family whose genealogical records date back to the middle of the 15th century. Domenico is the first of the family known to be a musician. Little is known about his early life. He was a singer at the cathedral of San Petronio, and by 1540 had established a high enough reputation for his various musical activities that the city officials gave him a lifetime stipend to oversee the palace musicians. Sometime in the 1540s he went to Rome, and he became magister puerorum (director of the boy's choir) for the Julian Chapel in 1546. However, due to family obligations he returned to Bologna in 1547,
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP] Domenico Bologna  Domenico Bologna (born in Turin August 22, 1845 – 1885) was an Italian painter, mainly of landscapes with figures.  He trained under professors Antonio Fontanesi and Francesco Gamba in Accademia Albertina. Among his works are: "Dopo Vespro", exhibited in 1875 at Milan; "Tramonto", exhibited in 1881 at Milan; "Il Tanaro", bought by the Società promotrice of Fine Arts in Genoa; "Le sponde del Po" at Turin, sold in 1878 at St Petersburg, Russia, "Le sponde del Tanaro"; "Inverno" ; "Pascolo"; and "Tramonto", exhibited in 1883 at Rome.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP] Domenico Ferrabosco  Domenico Maria Ferrabosco (14 February 1513 – February 1574)<ref name="Grove" /> was an Italian composer and singer of the Renaissance, and the eldest musician in a large prominent family from Bologna. He spent his career both in Bologna and Rome. His surviving music is all vocal, consisting of madrigals and motets, although he is principally known for his madrigals, which musicologist Alfred Einstein compared favorably to those of his renowned contemporary Cipriano de Rore.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP] Giovanni Domenico Cassini  Giovanni Domenico Cassini, also known as Jean-Dominique Cassini (8 June 1625 – 14 September 1712) was an Italian (naturalised French) mathematician, astronomer and engineer. Cassini was born in Perinaldo, near Imperia, at that time in the County of Nice, part of the Savoyard state. Cassini is known for his work on astronomy and engineering. He discovered four satellites of the planet Saturn and noted the division of the rings of Saturn; the Cassini Division was named after him. Giovanni Domenico Cassini was also the first of his family to begin work on the project of creating a topographic map of France.  The "Cassini" space probe, launched in 1997, was named after him and became the fourth to visit the planet Saturn and the first to orbit the planet.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP] Domenico Maria Canuti  Domenico Maria Canuti (5 April 1625– 6 April 1684) was an Italian painter of the Baroque period, active mainly in Bologna and Rome. He was a major painter of fresco decorations. His ceiling decorations showed a mix of Bolognese and Roman influences.
In what city was Domenico Bologna born? [SEP] Saint Dominic  Saint Dominic, (; 8 August 1170 – 6 August 1221), also known as Domingo de Guzmán (), was a Castilian Catholic priest, mystic, the founder of the Dominican Order and is the patron saint of astronomers and natural scientists. He is alternatively called Dominic of Osma, Dominic of Caleruega, and Domingo Félix de Guzmán.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP]  Alexandros A. Mátsas (Αλέξανδρος Μάτσας, 1911 &ndash; 1969) was a Greek poet and ambassador of Greece. He was born in Athens, Greece. After following courses on political science and classical studies at Oxford University, he entered the Greek diplomatic service in 1934. He served in various posts in Egypt, Paris, The Hague, and Rome, and was Royal Greek Ambassador to Turkey and the United States of America. He published several books of poetry (the first written in French) and three poetical dramas on ancient themes, of which two (Clytemnestra and Croesus) were produced by the Royal Theater of Athens in 1957 and 1963 respectively.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Poems. Athens. 1946.'''
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP]  Michael Naoum Matsas (b. 1930) is a Holocaust survivor and author. He was born in Ioannina, Greece, and survived the Holocaust by hiding with the Greek resistance.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP]  Papanastasiou was born on 8 July 1876 in Tripoli to Panagiotis Papanastasiou, a member of Parliament and Marigo Rogari-Apostolopoulou. He spent part of his childhood in Kalamata (1876–1883) and Piraeus (1883–1889). He studied law at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens (1895–1898), earning his doctorate in 1899 and a licence in 1901. From 1901 to 1905 he studied social science, law and philosophy at the Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universität of Berlin and in Heidelberg. In 1905 he goes to London, later on to Paris, continuing with his studies until 1907, when he decides to return to Greece. In 1908 with Alexandros Delmouzos founded the "Society of sociologists". He tried to combine political activity with scientific research.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP]  Alexandros Christofis or Alexandros Hristofis (Greek: Αλέξανδρος Χριστόφης, 1882-1953) was a Greek painter. He was born in Piraeus in 1882. He attended the School of Great Arts where he excelled with the studend Nikiforos Lytras. He later went to Naples, where he attended the Institute of Great Arts. From his journey until his death, he presented paintings with popular and teamwork positions. From 1925, he was a professor of the technical school. In his work, it depicts mainly its scenes of everyday life of its people either in outdoors or in the city and from the life of the Greek sailors at its ports in Piraeus. Pictures are founded also in Germany. His technique in which austerely judges academically with intense personal tone.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Alexandros Matsas  Alexandros A. Mátsas (, 1911 – 1969) was a Greek poet and ambassador of Greece. He was born in Athens, Greece. After following courses on political science and classical studies at Oxford University, he entered the Greek diplomatic service in 1934. He served in various posts in Egypt, Paris, The Hague, and Rome, and was Royal Greek Ambassador to Turkey and the United States of America.  He published several books of poetry (the first written in French) and three poetical dramas on ancient themes, of which two ("Clytemnestra" and "Croesus") were produced by the Royal Theater of Athens in 1957 and 1963 respectively.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Ioannina  Ioannina ( ' ), often called Yannena ( ' ) within Greece, is the capital and largest city of the Ioannina regional unit and of Epirus, an administrative region in north-western Greece. According to the 2011 census, the city population was 65,574, while the municipality had 112,486 inhabitants. It lies at an elevation of approximately above sea level, on the western shore of Lake Pamvotis (). Ioannina is located northwest of Athens, southwest of Thessaloniki and east of the port of Igoumenitsa in the Ionian Sea.  The city's foundation has traditionally been ascribed to the Byzantine Emperor Justinian in the 6th century AD, but modern archaeological research has uncovered evidence of Hellenistic settlements. Ioannina flourished in the late Byzantine period (13th–15th centuries). It became part of the Despotate of Epirus following the Fourth Crusade and many wealthy Byzantine families fled there following the sack of Constantinople, with the city experiencing great prosperity and considerable autonomy, despite the political turmoils. Ioannina surrendered to the Ottomans in 1430 and until 1868 it was the administrative center of the Pashalik of Yanina. In the period between the 18th and 19th centuries, the city was a major center of the modern Greek Enlightenment. Ioannina was ceded to Greece in 1913 following the Balkan Wars.  The city is also characterized by various green areas and parks, including Molos (Lake Front), Litharitsia Park, Pirsinella Park (Giannotiko Saloni), Suburban Forest. There are two hospitals, the General Hospital of Ioannina "G. Hatzikosta", and the University Hospital of Ioannina. It is also the seat of the University of Ioannina. The city's emblem consists of the portrait of the Byzantine Emperor Justinian crowned by a stylized depiction of the nearby ancient theater of Dodona.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Romaniote Jews  The Romaniote Jews or the Romaniotes (, "Rhomaniótes"; ) are a Greek-speaking ethnic Jewish community native to the Eastern Mediterranean. They are one of the oldest Jewish communities in existence and the oldest Jewish community in Europe. Their distinct language was Judaeo-Greek or Yevanic, a Greek dialect that contained Hebrew along with some Aramaic and Turkish words, but today's Romaniotes speak modern Greek or the languages of their new home countries. Their name is derived from the endonym "Rhomania" (Ῥωμανία), which refers to the Eastern Roman Empire ("Empire of the Romans", Greek: Βασιλεία Ρωμαίων). Large communities were located in Thessaloniki, Ioannina, Arta, Preveza, Volos, Chalcis, Chania, Thebes, Corinth, Patras, and on the islands of Corfu, Crete, Zakynthos, Lesbos, Chios, Samos, Rhodes, and Cyprus, among others. The Romaniotes have been, and remain, historically distinct from the Sephardim, some of whom settled in Ottoman Greece after the 1492 expulsion of the Jews from Spain.  A majority of the Jewish population of Greece was killed in the Holocaust after the Axis powers occupied Greece during World War II and deported most of the Jews to Nazi concentration camps. After the war, a majority of the survivors emigrated to Israel, the United States, and Western Europe. Today there are still functioning Romaniote synagogues in Chalkis, which represents the oldest Jewish congregation on European soil, Ioannina, Veria, Athens, New York and Israel.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Roza Eskenazi  Roza Eskenazi (mid-1890s – 2 December 1980, Greek: Ρόζα Εσκενάζυ) was a famous Jewish-Greek dancer and singer of "rebetiko", Greek folk music, Kanto and Turkish folk music born in Istanbul, whose recording and stage career extended from the late 1920s into the 1970s.
In what city was Alexandros Matsas born? [SEP] Andriana Babali  Andriana Babali (Greek: Ανδριάνα Μπάμπαλη) is a Greek singer and songwriter.
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP]  Suzuki was born in Tokyo on November 16, 1976. After graduating from high school, he joined JEF United Ichihara with Takayuki Chano in 1995. He played many matches from first season. However his opportunity to play decreased and he moved to Kyoto Purple Sanga in 2001. He played many matches and the club won 2002 Emperor's Cup their first major title. In 2006, he could hardly play in the match and moved to Mito HollyHock in 2007. He retired end of 2009 season.
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP]  Suzuki was born in Shiogama on April 8, 1956. After graduating from high school, he joined Yomiuri in 1975 and he played until 1986. In 1989, he came back as player and coach at his local club Tohoku Electric Power (later Brummell Sendai). He retired in 1995.
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP]  Suzuki was born in Iwate, Japan. He moved to San Francisco in 1918 to join his father. Sukuzi attended California School of Fine Arts there in 1924. From 1932 until 1936 he exhibited in New York. In 1936 he worked for the Federal Art Project creating murals at the Willard Parker Hospital, which is now demolished. Suzuki moved to Chicago, Illinois in about 1951 and died in January 1995.
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP]  Suzuki was born in Tokyo in 1937. Before 1941, his family had moved to the town of Tsushima, Aichi, outside Nagoya, where his father took a job at the Nisshin Flour Milling Company. In school, Suzuki proved to be a gifted student, finding schoolwork easy, particularly in the field of mathematics. As he grew older, he developed a disinterest in school lessons, leading to a pattern of truancy. Unknown to Suzuki until his high school reunion years later, his mother persuaded a teacher to excuse his absences, allowing him to graduate and enroll in Nagoya University.
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP]  Suzuki was born in Kasukabe city of Saitama Prefecture and was raised in Misato City in the same Prefecture. He attended Misato High School in Misato City. He lived with his mother due to divorce of his parents. He wasn't able to attend college due to economic problems. At 18 years of age he passed the Tokyo Metropolitan Staff Employment Examination and entered the Tokyo Metropolitan Government in April 1999 as an employee. In April 2000, he took admission at Hosei University and graduated from law faculty of the university in 2004. In University he served as captain of boxing club and was runner-up in 2002 at National Sports Tournament in Boxing Competition. During
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP] Kazuhiro Suzuki
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP] Kazuhiro Sasaki  Kazuhiro "Daimajin" Sasaki (佐々木 主浩 "Sasaki Kazuhiro", born February 22, 1968) is a former Nippon Professional Baseball and Major League Baseball right-handed relief pitcher. He played his entire NPB career with the Yokohama Taiyo Whales / Yokohama BayStars (1990–1999; 2004–2005). Sasaki played his entire MLB career with the Seattle Mariners (2000–2003).
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP] Kazuhiro  Kazuhiro is a masculine Japanese given name. Notable people with the name include:
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP] Kaz Hayashi
In what city was Kazuhiro Suzuki born? [SEP] Kazuhiro Furuhashi
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]  He was born in a farming family in Southern Sweden. He was debuted as an artist in 1907 from an Art exhibition in the University of Lund. He then went to Technical Company School and then to Kristian Zahrtmann's School in Copenhagen. He then travelled in the year 1913 to Berlin. There he came in contact with abstract art, futurism and cubism, something that had a major impact on his own art. Gösta Adrian-Nilsson became a pioneer for radical art in 1910 and 20th century Sweden.
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]  Eriksson was born in Badelunda, Västerås, Sweden. His family moved to Stenby, Adelsö, when he was six years old. At the age of thirteen, Eriksson moved back to Västerås, where he lived until his church confirmation.
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]  Peterson was born in Stockholm in 1923 and grew up in Örebro, before returning to Stockholm where he studied to become an illustrator. He went to work in an advertising agency in Stockholm. A relative invited him to come to the US and in 1948 he moved to New York, where he got a job as illustrator at the department store Lord & Taylor. Although of service age, he did not serve in World War II.
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]  Per Gustav Gösta Hjalmar Wallmark is a Swedish artist. He was born on June 11, 1928, in Luleå, Sweden and died in Visby on November 20, 2017. Gösta Wallmark got his education from Otte Skölds målarskola in Stockholm, Ecole des Beaux Arts in Paris and at Royal Swedish Academy of Arts. He created a wall relief at Garnisonen, Stockholm in 1972. Together with Elis Eriksson he was responsible for the artistic decoration of Hallonbergen metro station in Stockholm which opened 31 August 1975. 5
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]  Gösta Lars August Knutsson (original surname Johansson; 12 October 1908, in Stockholm – 4 April 1973) was a Swedish radio producer and writer of a popular series of children's books about the cat Pelle Svanslös. Gösta Knutsson was born in a middle-class family in Stockholm and came to the University of Uppsala as a student, remaining in Uppsala for the rest of his life. After completing an M.A. degree, he was curator (chairman) of the Stockholm Nation and later chairman of the Uppsala Student Union (1936–1938). He was also editor of the student union paper Ergo 1940–42. During his time as
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Gösta Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]  Robert James Lukachyk (born July 24, 1968 in Jersey City, New Jersey) is a former American professional baseball player. Lukachyk played briefly for the Montreal Expos of the Major League Baseball (MLB) during their 1996 season.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]  Born in Poland, Jachym moved to the United States with his family when he was five. He graduated from Francis T Maloney High School after being named a 1991 First Team High School All American soccer player. He then attended University of Hartford where he was a 1996 Second Team All American soccer player. Jachym played five seasons with the Hawks, losing his junior season to injury. As a result, he graduated with a bachelor's degree in marketing in 1996 and a master's degree in finance in 1997. In 2004, Hartford inducted Jachym into its Athletic Hall of Fame.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]  Zastryzny was born in Edmonton, Alberta. His family moved to Corpus Christi, Texas, when he was one year old. Zastryzny holds dual Canadian-American citizenship, and was homeschooled.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]  Lukachyk was selected by the Chicago White Sox in the 10th round of the 1987 MLB Draft out of Brookdale Community College in New Jersey. After that, he signed as a free agent with the Baltimore Orioles (1993) and Detroit Tigers (1994) before joining the Expos organization. Originally a corner infielder and outfielder in the minors, Lukachyk made two appearances as a pinch-hitter for Montreal and went hitless in two at bats. In between, Lukachyk played winter ball with the Pastora de Occidente club of the Venezuelan League in the 1996–97 season. Lukachyk eventually moved on to play for the Somerset Patriots of the independent Atlantic League of Professional Baseball. After his playing days were over, he moved on to work in their front office. In a 12-season minor league career, he posted a .267 batting average with 104 home runs and 586 runs batted in in 1,185 games.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]  Born in Oldenburg in West Germany to Ukrainian parents, his family emigrated to United States while he was still an infant, and then settled in Cleveland. After studying at Case Western Reserve, he enrolled in a film studies graduate program at Columbia University, and permanently relocated to New York City.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP] Rob Lukachyk  Robert James Lukachyk (born July 24, 1968 in Jersey City, New Jersey) is a former American professional baseball player. Lukachyk played briefly for the Montreal Expos of the Major League Baseball (MLB) during their 1996 season.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP] Brookdale Community College  Brookdale Community College is a public community college in the Lincroft section of Middletown Township, in Monmouth County, New Jersey, New Jersey, United States. Founded in 1967, the college also has regional locations in Neptune Township, Freehold Township, Long Branch, and Wall Township.  Brookdale is an open-admission college that admits anyone 18 years of age or older or anyone who is a high school graduate or holder of an equivalency diploma. The college also offers courses to qualified high school students through its dual enrollment program. It serves the residents of Monmouth County and surrounding communities and has an enrollment of approximately 10,000 students. The college offers associate degrees in more than 75 programs, as well as non-degree/non-credit classes and certificate programs.
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]
In what city was Rob Lukachyk born? [SEP]
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]  François Poullain de la Barre was born on July 1647 in Paris, France, to a family with judicial nobility. He added "de la Barre" to his name later in life. After graduating in 1663 with a master of arts, he spent three years at the College of Sorbonne where he studied theology. In 1679, he became an ordained Catholic priest. From 1679 to 1688, he led two modest parishes, Versigny and La Flamengrie, in Picardy in northern France. In 1688, Poullaine de la Barre left Picardy and the priesthood to return to Paris. At the time the Catholic Church was critical of Cartesianism. By 1689 he moved to Geneva where he converted to Calvinism, a branch of Protestantism. The following year, he married Marie Ravier. After a year as a tutor, he got a position teaching at a local Genevan university. After the Edict of Fontainebleau revoked the Edict of Nantes, he was exiled in the Republic of Geneva, where he obtained the citizenship (bourgeoisie) in 1716. He spent the remainder of his life in Geneva, where he died on May 4, 1723.
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]  Barré was born in Cholet on 25 June 1864, but in 1888 relocated to nearby Parthenay, where he worked as a gunsmith. Six years later he moved again, establishing himself in 1894 at Niort in the rue Ricard Il, as a manufacturer and renter of cycles. France was in the middle of a massive cycling boom, and business was good. Barré relocated his business several times, but now always staying in Niort. As he amassed his fortune he decided that the future lay not with cycles but with the automobile.
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]   Jean Auguste Barre (25 September 1811 &ndash; 5 February 1896) was a French sculptor and medalist. Born in Paris, he was trained by his father Jean-Jacques Barre (1793–1855), a medalist. Barre studied at the École nationale supérieure des Beaux-Arts in Paris under Jean-Pierre Cortot, and he is mainly known as a portrait sculptor. Exhibiting at the French Salon from 1831 to 1886, his first showings were of medallions and medals. Barre is known to be one of the first sculptors to make miniatures of famous contemporaries, such as Napoleon III, Queen Victoria, dancers Marie Taglioni and Emma Livry, and Susan B. Anthony. His bronze works are on display in such places as the Louvre and the Cleveland Art Museum. One of his stone works is found in the cemetery of Père Lachaise Cemetery, where he did a bust for the tomb of his friend Alfred de Musset. He died in Paris in 1896.
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]   Jean Benoît Vincent Barré (Seine-Port, Seine-et-Marne, 22 January 1735 - Seine-Port, 27 January 1824) was a French architect. He was one of the most important architects of the 18th century and one of the creators of the 'Louis XVI style' of architecture.
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]  Gisèle Barreau was born in Couëron, west of Nantes in Brittany, and studied with Émile Leipp and Michèle Castellengo for musical acoustics at Jussieu University. She continued her studies with Pierre Schaeffer at the Paris Conservatory and later with Olivier Messiaen. In 1977 she received a diploma in electroacoustic music from the Groupe de Recherches Musicales (GRM). After completing her university studies, Barreau obtained a teaching certificate for music. She was composer-in-residence at the MacDowell Colony in 1978 and resident at the Villa Medici from 1980-82. Barreau works as a professor at the Paris Conservatoire.
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP] Pierre-Yves  Pierre-Yves is a given name. Notable people with the name include:
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP]
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP] Barre (name)  Barre or Barré is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include:
In what city was Pierre-Yves Barré born? [SEP] Pierre-Antoine-Augustin de Piis  Pierre-Antoine-Augustin (17 September 1755, Paris22 May 1832, Paris), chevalier de Piis was a French dramatist and man of letters. With Pierre-Yves Barré he was one of the co-founders of Paris's Théâtre du Vaudeville.  He was the son of Pierre-Joseph de Piis, chevalier de Saint-Louis and major to the Cap Français, and as such was intended for service in France's colonial army. However, due to his delicate health, he gave up the military and completed at the collège d'Harcourt the studies he had begun at the Louis le-Grand.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP]  Sieben was born on June 23, 1946, and grew up in Hastings, Minnesota. He attended St. Cloud State University, graduating with a B.S., and later attended law school at the University of Minnesota, graduating with a J.D. in 1973.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP]  Todd Siler (born August 23, 1953) is an American multimedia artist, author, educator, and inventor, equally well known for his art and for his work in creativity research. A graduate of Bowdoin College, he became the first visual artist to be granted a PhD from MIT (interdisciplinary studies in Psychology and Art, 1986). Siler began advocating the full integration of the arts and sciences in the 1970s and is the founder of the ArtScience Program and movement.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP]  Known to most as une Todd Todd Strobeck (born August 17, 1966) is a retired U.S. soccer goalkeeper who four seasons in the Western Soccer Alliance, one in the American Professional Soccer League, one in Major Indoor Soccer League and at least one in USISL. Strobeck attended Warner Pacific College where he played on the men’s soccer team from 1984 to 1987. While still in college, he also played for F.C. Portland, a local semi-pro team in the Western Soccer Alliance during the collegiate off-season. Strobeck played with F.C. Portland from 1985 through 1988. In his last season with the team he was the
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP]  Todd Sanders was born in Houston, TX on August 10, 1967. He started sign painting while studying advertising and graphic design at Sam Houston State University. His mother influenced him to become an artist, and his father encouraged a work ethic. During a spring break trip in 1990, Sanders decided he would live in Austin, Texas.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP]  Sieben was born on March 23, 1977 and grew up in Newport, Minnesota. She attended Colorado College, graduating with a B.A. and later attended the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, graduating with an M.P.A.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP] Todd Sieben  Todd Sieben (born July 11, 1945) was a Republican member of the Illinois Senate who represented northwestern Illinois from 1993 until his resignation in March 2008.  Sieben was born in Geneseo, Illinois on July 11, 1945. He attended Western Illinois University where he earned a bachelor's degree in business administration. From 1968 to 1972 he served as an officer in the United States Navy including serving in Vietnam. He ended his service with the United States Navy in 1972 with the rank of Lieutenant. He then became co-owner and vice-president of Sieben Hybrids, a family seed business and he operated a 400-acre livestock farm.  In 1986, he was elected to the Illinois House of Representatives to succeed A. T. McMaster. During his time in the House he praised lifting the inheritance tax, attempted to shorten campaigning season by moving back Illinois's March primary elections and was supportive of education reform with the exception of forced school district consolidation. In 1991, he advocated for Northern Illinois University to convert the Campbell Center in Mount Carroll, Illinois into a regional branch, similar to ones in Hoffman Estates and Naperville.  In 1992, he was elected to the Illinois Senate to represent the 37th district to succeed Calvin W. Schuneman.  After the 2001 redistricting, Sieben's district was renumbered to the 45th and drawn to include all of Jo Daviess, Stephenson and Lee counties and portions of Winnebago, Ogle, Carroll, Whiteside and Henry counties. In 2003, he was appointed an Assistant Republican Leader.<ref name="2003ILGA"/>  He ran unopposed in 1998, 2002 and 2006. In 2007, he announced his retirement, but in February 2008 he chose to resign to become a lobbyist for the ethanol industry. He was succeeded by retired Lee County Sherriff Tim Bivins.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP] Tim Bivins  Tim Bivins (born March 7, 1952) was a Republican member of the Illinois Senate representing the 45th district from 2008 to 2018.  Prior to his 2008 appointment to the Illinois Senate, Bivins served for two decades as the Lee County Sheriff.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP] Todd (given name)  Todd is a male given name. The name originated from Middle English where it means "fox". Notable people and characters with the name include:
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP] Dale Risinger  Dale Risinger is an American civil engineer and Republican politician from Illinois. He was a member of the Illinois State Senate from 2003 to 2011.
In what city was Todd Sieben born? [SEP] Robert Madigan  Robert A. "Bob" Madigan (November 28, 1942 – May 4, 2006) was an American politician.  Born in Lincoln, Illinois, Madigan received his bachelor's degree from Millikin University. His brother was Edward Rell Madigan. Madigan served as city clerk of Lincoln, Illinois. From 1987 to 2001, Madigan served in the Illinois State Senate as a Republican. He was then appointed to the Illinois Industrial Commission. He died in Lincoln, Illinois.
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP]  Troost was born in Den Bosch, Netherlands, to Anna Cornelia (Van Heeck) and Everardus Josephus Troost. He received the degree of Doctor of Medicine from the University of Leyden, and of Master in Pharmacy, in 1801, from the University of Amsterdam. After a brief practice at Amsterdam and the Hague, he was enlisted in the army as a private soldier, and then as an officer of the first class in the medical department. During these periods of service, he was wounded in the thigh and in the head. In 1807 Troost went to Paris under the patronage of Louis Napoleon, King of Holland. There he studied
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP] Axel Troost (born 1954), German politician ; Benoist Troost (1786–1859), Dutch-born physician, publisher and community leader in Kansas City, Missouri. ; Named after him: Troost Avenue, a major north-south street in Kansas City, Missouri ; Cornelis Troost (1697–1750), Dutch painter ; Gerard Troost (1776–1850), Dutch physician, naturalist and mineralogist who emigrated to the US in 1825. ; Named after him: Troost's moccasin, Troostite ; Gerdy Troost (1904–2003), German architect, wife of Paul ; J. Maarten Troost (born 1969), Dutch travel writer living in the US ; Louis Joseph Troost (1825–1911), French chemist ; Paul Troost (1878–1934), German architect, husband of Gerdy ; Renee Troost (born 1988), Dutch footballer ; Sara Troost (1732–1803), Dutch painter ; Sjaak Troost (born 1959), Dutch footballer ; Willem Troost (1684–1752), Dutch painter ; William Troost-Ekong (born 1993), Dutch footballer ; Van Troost ; Andre van Troost (born 1972), Dutch cricketer ; Luuk van Troost (born 1969), Dutch cricketer
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP]  The street is named after the first physician to reside in Kansas City, Dr. Benoist Troost. He was born November 17, 1786 in Holland and moved to the United States in 1815, settling in Independence, Missouri in 1844. Troost Avenue has been continuously developing from 1834 into the 1990s, including movie theaters and apartments. After the Town of Kansas (which is now the city of Kansas City, Missouri) was established in 1850, Dr. Troost became one of the governing trustees. In the 1850s, he was involved in publishing the first newspaper, the Kansas City Enterprise. He was one of the originators of
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP]  Troost was born in Groningen, The Netherlands in 1969, and is of Dutch-Czech descent. He was educated at Boston University (B.A.) and The George Washington University (M.A.). He has lived in the Netherlands, Canada, the Czech Republic, Kiribati, Vanuatu, Fiji, and the United States, where, after a long stint in California, he presently resides in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area with his wife and children.
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP]  Louis-Joseph Antoine was born on 7 June 1846 in Mons-Crotteux, Belgium at a place called "In the Chapel", the youngest of a large family, which belonged to the Roman Catholic Church. His mother was Catherine Castille, born in 1797. He was raised in the Priesse street and attended primary school in Mons. From the age of twelve, Louis was employed as a coal miner, following in the footsteps of his father. One day, while working at the mine, his lamp went out without apparent reason, which he interpreted as a divine sign that he should abandon this work. He worked for two years in
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP] Louis Joseph Troost  Louis Joseph Troost (17 October 1825, Paris – 30 September 1911) was a French chemist.
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP] Troost  Troost is a Dutch surname. "Troost" means "comfort" in Dutch, and the name is thought have a character descriptive or perhaps occupational origin. . People with this name include:
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP]
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP] 1911 in France  Events from the year 1911 in France.
In what city was Louis Joseph Troost born? [SEP] Henri Moissan  Ferdinand Frédéric Henri Moissan (28 September 1852 – 20 February 1907) was a French chemist and pharmacist who won the 1906 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for his work in isolating fluorine from its compounds. Moissan was one of the original members of the International Atomic Weights Committee.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]  The son of a contractor, Bälz was born in 1849 in Bietigheim-Bissingen in Germany. He attended grammar school in Stuttgart and studied medicine at University of Tübingen. He graduated at the age of 23, and subsequently worked at the medical department of the University of Leipzig in 1869, and served as a medic in the German army during the Franco-Prussian War in 1870. He returned to the University of Leipzig in 1875. While at Leipzig, he treated a Japanese exchange student, which led to the offer by the Japanese government of a two-year contract with the Medical College of Tokyo Imperial University in 1876. Bälz’s contract was renewed several times, and he ended up spending
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]  Heiko Engelkes (1 April 1933 – 6 November 2008) was a German journalist. Born in Norden, he studied law, political science and journalism in Wilhelmshaven, Hamburg and Berlin. Following this he spent time as a Fulbright scholar at the William Allan White School of Journalism of the University of Kansas. He began his career as a journalist in 1956, freelancing for the Norddeutscher Rundfunk, the local public broadcaster for Hamburg and surrounding areas of the Federal Republic, and for the Deutsches Allgemeines Sonntagsblatt, a weekly newspaper published by the Evangelical Church in Germany. In 1960 he switched to the Westdeutscher
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]  Maas was born on 19 September 1966 to a Catholic, middle class family in Saarlouis, a city near the French border that is named for Louis XIV of France. His father was a professional soldier who later became a manager at Saarlouis Body & Assembly, a car plant owned by Ford Germany, while his mother was a dressmaker. He graduated from the gymnasium in 1987 and served his compulsory military service from 1987 to 1988; he thereafter worked for a year at Saarlouis Body & Assembly. From 1989 he studied law at Saarland University, and he passed his first state examination in 1993 and was called to the bar in 1996. He lives with the actress Natalia Wörner, and has two children from a former marriage.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]  Heiko März (born 9 July 1965) is a German former professional footballer who played as a defender or midfielder. He played over 210 top-flight matches in East and unified Germany. In 1989 he won one cap for the East Germany national team.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]  Heiko Daxl (21 September 1957 &ndash; 21 May 2012) was a German media artist, exhibition curator, art gallery owner and design / art collector. Born in Oldenburg, Germany, he lived and worked in Berlin and Zagreb.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP] Heiko Balz  Heiko Balz (born 17 September 1969) is a German Freestyle wrestler. He won a silver medal at the 1992 Summer Olympics.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP] Heiko (given name)  "Heiko" is a traditional given name of Germanic origin. It is the short form of the name Heinrich—cognate of Henry. Heiko is an old name. The first documentary evidence of this name comes from the 13th century. It means "the powerful ruler over the country", the "master of the country" or "the master of the house". and derives from old high German "heima" = "the home, the home country" and old high German "rihhi" = "powerful, rich".<ref name="vorname.com"/> The female form is Heike.  Notable people called Heiko include:
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP] Burg bei Magdeburg  Burg (also known as Burg bei Magdeburg to distinguish from other places with the same name) is a town of about 22,400 inhabitants on the Elbe–Havel Canal in northeastern Germany, northeast of Magdeburg. It is the capital of the Jerichower Land district in the state of Saxony-Anhalt.  The town is known for its mediaeval churches and towers. Due to the numerous towers and steeples Burg also carries the sobriquet "City of Towers". Like other German towns and cities, Burg shows its connection to the Roland saga with a statue, which was restored in 1999.
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]
In what city was Heiko Balz born? [SEP]
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP]  Margot Shumway (born August 2, 1979) is an American rower. She was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. She competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she place fifth in quadruple sculls. She competed in double sculls together with Sarah Trowbridge at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, where they placed sixth.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP]  Shumiatcher was born on October 21, 1896 in Gomel to parents Judah and Chasia as one of eleven siblings. (Katz gives her birth year as 1899.) She and her family emigrated to Calgary, Alberta, Canada in 1911. All members of the family worked to support the household; they also had boarders in their house. Shumiatcher worked as a waitress and at a meat-packing plant until 1918, when she met and married Peretz Hirschbein, a New York Yiddish playwright, when he was on tour in Calgary. Shumiatcher had her son, Omus, in 1934 in New York. He would grow to become a prominent concert producer. Shumiatcher moved to Los Angeles in 1940 where her husband had an offer to write film scripts, of which one was produced. Her husband died in 1948 from lateral sclerosis, after which Shumiatcher primarily gave lectures. She eventually moved back to New York, where she died in 1985.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP]  York area. They designed, built, and moved into a home on Ambassador Drive in Brighton, New York by the end of 1935. The third and final child of the family, Charles Lakin Shumway, was born on July 8, 1936. With a living room full of family photos, that home would become a gathering place for health and social agency staff, various committee members, traveling figure skaters, and many other friends. The Shumway family had a passion for sailing and owned two schooners named “Spindrift” and “Skookum III”. They also owned a beloved fifty-foot ketch named “Flying Gull”. Summers were
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP]  Minnie Mae Shumway was born in Galesburg, Illinois, the daughter of Stephen Burroughs Shumway and Lydia Jane Streeter Shumway. She pursued training for the stage at the Frohman School for Expression in New York.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP]  Hettie Beaman Lakin Shumway (September 1, 1903 – June 17, 1985) was an American philanthropist and humanist during the early and mid-twentieth century. She committed much of her time to volunteering and worked to change and improve the Rochester, New York area, particularly at the Strong Memorial Hospital, the East House Corporation, Lifeline, the Rochester School for the Deaf, among various other councils and committees. Shumway was also a strong advocate for establishing the National Technical Institute for the Deaf on the campus of the Rochester Institute of Technology.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP] Margot Shumway  Margot Shumway (born August 2, 1979) is an American rower. She was born in Cincinnati, Ohio. She competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she place fifth in quadruple sculls. She competed in double sculls together with Sarah Trowbridge at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, where they placed sixth.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP] Lia Pernell  Lia Pernell (born August 16, 1981) is an American rower. She was born in Berkeley, California. She competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she placed fifth in quadruple sculls, together with Lindsay Meyer, Jennifer Kaido and Margot Shumway.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP] Sarah Trowbridge  Sarah Trowbridge (born September 27, 1982, Washington, DC) is an American rower. She began rowing in high school in Guilford, Connecticut and won two Big 10 championships at the University of Michigan. She joined the U.S. national team in 2008. She qualified for the 2012 Summer Olympics in the women's double sculls with partner Margot Shumway. They finished 6th in the finals.  In August 2017, she was named head coach of the women’s rowing team at the University of San Diego.<ref name="USD" />  Trowbridge graduated in 2006 from the University of Michigan with a degree in English.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP] Lindsay Meyer  Lindsay Meyer (born September 23, 1988) is an American rower. She was born in Seattle, Washington. She competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where she placed fifth in quadruple sculls, together with Lia Pernell, Jennifer Kaido and Margot Shumway.
In what city was Margot Shumway born? [SEP] List of people who disappeared mysteriously: 1910–1990  This is a list of people who disappeared mysteriously: 1910–1990 or whose deaths or exact circumstances thereof are not substantiated. Many people who disappear end up declared presumed dead and some of these people were possibly subjected to forced disappearance.  This list is a general catch-all; for specialty lists, see Lists of people who disappeared.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]  Vitaliy Sobko began his football career in Metalist Youth in Kharkiv. He transferred to FC Kremin Kremenchuk during 2009 winter transfer window.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]  Vitaliy Ivanovych Sobko (Віталій Іванович Собко; born 27 July 1987) is a Ukrainian football midfielder.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]  Vitaliy Borysovyvch Antonov (born December 12, 1962 in Stryi, Lviv Oblast) is an entrepreneur from Western Ukraine the founder of OKKO Group.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]  Vitaliy Anatoliovich Raevskiy was born on February 25, 1949 in Khyriv, Lviv oblast Ukraine.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]  Vitalii S. Kurylo was born on February 2, 1957 in the settlement of Bilokurakyne, Lugansk. His father Semen Yevhrafovych (born 1929) and his mother Anastasiia Arsentiivna (born 1930) died. He is married and has four children: two sons and two daughters. He graduated from the Historical Faculty of Luhansk Taras Shevchenko State Pedagogical Institute in 1982. In 1974, he began his career as a teacher in Bilokurakyne Secondary School. He worked as a teacher in Pidhorivka Secondary School and Starobilsk Secondary School No. 3. In 1983-1986, he studied at the postgraduate school. From 1986 to 1996, he worked as an Assistant,
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP] Vitaliy Sobko  Vitaliy Ivanovych Sobko (; born 27 July 1987) is a Ukrainian football midfielder.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP] Aleksandr Sobko  Aleksandr Ivanovich Sobko or Oleksandr Ivanovych Sobko (; ; born 31 August 1982) is a former Russian and Ukrainian professional football player.
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP] Sobko  Sobko () is a gender-neutral Ukrainian surname that may refer to
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]
In what city was Vitaliy Sobko born? [SEP]
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]  Thorbjörn Mikael Eriksson (born January 3, 1987) is a Swedish professional ice hockey forward, currently playing with Växjö Lakers Hockey in the Swedish Elitserien (SEL). Eriksson was born and raised in Karlskoga, Sweden, with Bofors HC as his youth team. After scoring 13 goals and 35 points with Karlskoga HC in the 2005–06 Swedish Division 2 season, Eriksson signed with the Division 1 team Grums IK for the 2006–07 season, where he scored 12 points in 26 games. During the season he was also called up to the senior Bofors IK team of the second tier HockeyAllsvenskan on 17 occasions, but he only scored 3 points. After 14 goals and 29 points in 162 HockeyAllsvenskan games, Eriksson signed a two-year contract with Växjö Lakers Hockey who were newcomers of the Swedish top tier league Elitserien (SEL) in the 2011–12 season. He made his Elitserien debut on September 13, 2011, in the Lakers' premier game of the season against Frölunda HC. Eriksson did not score any points as Frölunda shutout the Lakers 2–0.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]  Eriksson was born in Badelunda, Västerås, Sweden. His family moved to Stenby, Adelsö, when he was six years old. At the age of thirteen, Eriksson moved back to Västerås, where he lived until his church confirmation.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]  Born in Lund, Sweden, Mikael Håfström studied film at the University of Stockholm and the School of Visual Arts.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]  Karl Mikael Samuelsson (born 23 December 1976) is a Swedish former professional ice hockey right winger. Samuelsson began his career in Sweden, starting with small town team IFK Mariefred, followed by Södertälje SK as a junior in 1994. He went on to also play for Swedish teams IK Nyköping, Frölunda HC and Brynäs IF. After being selected 145th overall in the 1998 NHL Entry Draft by the San Jose Sharks, he moved to North America for the 2000–01 NHL season. Samuelsson spent short stints with the Sharks, New York Rangers, Pittsburgh Penguins and Florida Panthers, before returning to Europe during the 2004–05 NHL lockout. As NHL play resumed, Samuelsson signed with the Detroit Red Wings, where he enjoyed
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]  Mikael Eriksson is a Swedish footballer currently playing for Jönköpings Södra IF in the Swedish Superettan. He has previously played for Degerfors IF. In mid-2007, there was speculation in the Australian media that Eriksson was the target of Sydney FC manager Branko Culina, but nothing came of it.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP] Mikael Eriksson (ice hockey)  Thorbjörn Mikael Eriksson (born January 3, 1987) is a Swedish professional ice hockey forward, currently playing with Växjö Lakers Hockey in the Swedish Elitserien (SEL).  Eriksson was born and raised in Karlskoga, Sweden, with Bofors HC as his youth team. After scoring 13 goals and 35 points with Karlskoga HC in the 2005–06 Swedish Division 2 season, Eriksson signed with the Division 1 team Grums IK for the 2006–07 season, where he scored 12 points in 26 games. During the season he was also called up to the senior Bofors IK team of the second tier HockeyAllsvenskan on 17 occasions, but he only scored 3 points.  After 14 goals and 29 points in 162 HockeyAllsvenskan games, Eriksson signed a two-year contract with Växjö Lakers Hockey who were newcomers of the Swedish top tier league Elitserien (SEL) in the 2011–12 season. He made his Elitserien debut on September 13, 2011, in the Lakers' premier game of the season against Frölunda HC. Eriksson did not score any points as Frölunda shutout the Lakers 2–0.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP] Mikael Eriksson  Mikael Eriksson is a Swedish footballer currently playing for Jönköpings Södra IF in the Swedish Superettan. He has previously played for Degerfors IF.  In mid-2007, there was speculation in the Australian media that Eriksson was the target of Sydney FC manager Branko Culina, but nothing came of it.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP] Mikael Ericsson  Mikael Ericsson (born February 28, 1960) is a Swedish former rally driver. During his career he competed in 40 events in the World Rally Championship, including two victories consecutively in 1989, his best year, when he finished fourth overall.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP] Kjell Eriksson (radio presenter)  Kjell Mikael Eriksson (born 27 December 1975) is a Swedish radio presenter, television personality, blogger and author. In 2008 he was a regular guest at "VAKNA! med The Voice" which was broadcast both on the radio station The Voice and on Kanal 5. Eriksson also goes by the pseudonyms of "Kjelleman", "Kjell ger igen" and "DumKjell". He has worked on the comedy show "Pippirull" and has presented the morning show "Morgonpasset", and "Sovmorgon" all of them broadcast on Sveriges Radio. He also has presented the show "Långlunch" at the local radio Sveriges Radio Stockholm. Eriksson has frequently appeared on commercial television and radio channels such as , The Voice, Kanal 5 and TV3. He has also written the biography "Kjell", about his upbringing in Täby in the 1980s when he was severely overweight.
In what city was Mikael Eriksson born? [SEP]
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP]  Fisher Stevens was born Steven Fisher in Chicago, the son of Sally, a painter and AIDS activist, and Norman Fisher, a furniture executive. Stevens grew up in the Chicago, Illinois area, living in Hyde Park, Highland Park, and Evanston and describes himself as a "white Jewish kid from Chicago." His parents divorced when he was 13, after which he moved to New York with his mother. In the past, Stevens had Hodgkin's disease. At age 16, Stevens landed his first movie role, acting in the horror film The Burning. He completed one year at New York University before deciding to pursue acting full time.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP]  Stevens was born Steven Brody in Los Angeles, California on May 22, 1970. Stevens' family is from New Mexico and Arizona. His grandmother was born in New Mexico on May 2, 1909. His father, Harold Morris Brody, was born in Phoenix and worked as a private investigator. Stevens described his family as the "pioneering Jews of the southwest". Stevens was raised in Los Angeles, and briefly enrolled in private school until his mother decided he would attend public school. The family moved to Sacramento during Stevens' early childhood. After his parents divorced when Stevens was eight years old, he lived with his mother and older sister in the San Fernando Valley. Stevens did not go to Hebrew School nor read from the
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP]  Stevens was born in Liberty, Missouri, to Marie and Gail Shikles. His father was a high school teacher in Liberty and later an elementary school principal in Kansas City, Missouri. He studied dentistry at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, from which he received a bachelor's degree in 1936. Later, in the early 1940s, he also majored in theatre at the University of Kansas at Lawrence.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP]  Stevens was born in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, on June 7, 1911. Stricken with polio as a child, he was encouraged by his father to practice drawing while confined to his bed, perhaps motivating his career in design. He studied architecture at Cornell University from 1929 to 1933, and established his own home-furnishings design firm in 1934 in Milwaukee. His son, Kipp Stevens, ran the Brooks Stevens Design Associates until late 2008, when he stepped down. In 1959, Stevens opened a 12,500sf automotive museum in Mequon, Wisconsin, which became a repository for his own designs as well as others—and became a production facility in the late 1980s for the Wienermobile fleet. The museum closed in 1999, four years after his death. Stevens died on January 4, 1995, in Milwaukee. He was survived by his wife Alice, sons Kipp, William, and David, a daughter, Sandra A. Stevens, and five grandchildren.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP]  Stevens was born in Detroit, Michigan, and lived there until the age of nine, when his family moved to Alanson, Michigan, in the northern part of the Lower Peninsula of Michigan. He was raised by his father Rasjid and his stepmother Pat, only occasionally visiting his mother, Carrie, in Oregon after she married her second husband Lowell Brams. Brams later became the head of Stevens' record label Asthmatic Kitty. His brother Marzuki Stevens is a former professional road runner. Stevens is of Lithuanian and Greek descent. Stevens attended the Detroit Waldorf School, Alanson Public Schools and Interlochen Arts Academy, and graduated from Harbor Light Christian School. He then attended Hope College in Holland, Michigan, where he graduated Phi Beta Kappa, and then earned an MFA from The New School in New York City. Sufjan is a Persian name that means "comes with a sword". Most famously belonged to Abu Sufyan, a figure from early Islamic history. The name was given to Stevens by the founder of Subud, an interfaith spiritual community to which his parents belonged when he was born.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP] Roger L. Stevens  Roger Lacey Stevens (March 12, 1910 – February 2, 1998) was an American theatrical producer, arts administrator, and real estate executive. He was the founding Chairman of both the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts (1961) and the National Endowment for the Arts (1965).
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP] Rogers Stevens  Thomas Rogers Stevens (born 31 October 1970) is an American guitarist, best known for being a founding member of the alternative rock band Blind Melon. He has also been a member of the bands Extra Virgin and The Tender Trio, and is an attorney.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP] Rodger Stevens  Rodger Stevens is a contemporary American artist.  Stevens graduated from the Poly Prep Country Day School in Brooklyn and went on to study economics at Manhattanville College in Purchase, New York, and at Pace University in Manhattan. Stevens then attended Parsons The New School for Design and the School of Visual Arts. From 1994 through 1999, he worked at Sotheby's in New York.  In the early nineties he began exhibiting his drawings and sculptures at small galleries throughout New York and eventually in more renowned venues such as the Tiffany & Co. windows, the MTV headquarters, the Todd Oldham boutique and the Yohji Yamamoto showroom in SoHo. In recent years he has done commissioned work for the Whitney Museum of American Art, the American Folk Art Museum, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Barneys, West Elm, The New York Times, Stuart Weitzman, the Rockwell Group, Jonathan Adler, Starbucks, the W Hotel, One Medical, The Advisory Board, and others. In 2011, he was selected by the Persol eyewear company to be a member of their "Work of Persol" artist series. Stevens continues to exhibit internationally, California, and elsewhere. His work has been featured in numerous publications and blogs. He has developed a line of sculptural air-plant holders for West Elm; collaborated with designer Mark McKenna on the illuminated mobile, Orchadia; created several large-scale mobiles for the Starbucks company; and designed a line of carpets for Lindstrom Rugs (Los Angeles). In addition to his art and jewelry practice, he is an active curator, and an adjunct professor at the Parsons School of Design. His work is currently carried by the Whitney Museum and the Brooklyn Museum, and he is represented by BDDW, Kinder Modern, Brad Ford's FAIR, and Timothy Yarger Fine Art in Los Angeles.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP] Roger Stevens (diplomat)  Sir Roger Bentham Stevens, GCMG (8 June 1906 – 20 February 1980) was a British academic, diplomat and civil servant.
In what city was Rodger Stevens born? [SEP] Fisher Stevens  Fisher Stevens (born Steven Fisher; November 27, 1963) is an American actor, director, producer and writer. As an actor, he is best known for his portrayals of Ben in "Short Circuit" and "Short Circuit 2", Chuck Fishman on the 1990s television series "Early Edition", and villainous computer genius Eugene "The Plague" Belford in "Hackers". He portrays Marvin Gerard on NBC’s "The Blacklist". His most recent successes include winning the 2010 Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature for "The Cove" and the 2008 Independent Spirit Award for Best Documentary Feature for "Crazy Love". In addition, he has directed the documentary "Before the Flood", which screened at the Toronto International Film Festival and by National Geographic on October 21, 2016. He stars as Hugo Baker on the HBO satirical drama series "Succession".
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP]  Carroll was born in England in 1991 and attended the Preparatory School for Monkton Combe School, Bath. He and his family emigrated to New Zealand in 2004 and he was educated at St Andrew's College, Christchurch. He is a graduate of NZ Drama school Toi Whakaari, with a Bachelor of Performing Arts and has worked with Long Cloud Youth Theatre and travelled to London's Globe Theatre with Shakespeare Globe Centre New Zealand. In 2014 Carroll attended the Buffon/Le Jeu at L'Ecole Phillipe Gaulier in Paris. He also played in Shakespeare's Measure for Measure, Strindberg's A Dream-play, and As You Like It. He is represented by Auckland Actors and has played as Thomas Klopper in the award-winning staging of The Book of Everything in 2015/2016 at the Silo Theatre. Over these years, Carroll has performed in Alice In Wonderland, The
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP]  Carroll was born to a working-class family of Irish descent, and grew up in New York City's Lower East Side. When he was about 11 (in the sixth grade) his family moved north to Inwood in Upper Manhattan. He was taught by the LaSalle Christian Brothers. In fall 1963, he entered Rice High School in Harlem, but was soon awarded a scholarship to the elite Trinity School. He attended Trinity from 1964 to 1968. Carroll was a basketball star in high school, but also developed an addiction to heroin. He financed his drug habit by engaging in prostitution in the vicinity of 53rd Street and Third Avenue in Manhattan. Carroll briefly attended Wagner College and Columbia University. He dated Patti Smith.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP]  Carroll was born Roscoe Carroll in Cincinnati, Ohio, on July 8, 1963. His acting career is rooted in the theater. In 1981, Carroll graduated from the famed School for Creative and Performing Arts (SCPA) in Cincinnati Ohio, in the Cincinnati Public School District. Determined to further his knowledge of acting, he attended The Conservatory of Theatre Arts at Webster University in St. Louis, where he graduated with a B.F.A. degree. Carroll would later receive an honorary degree from his alma mater in 2009. After graduating, Carroll decided to test the waters by moving to New York City, the heart of the theater community. There, he introduced many young children to the works of William Shakespeare by participating in Joe Papp's "Shakespeare on Broadway" series.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP]  Carroll was born in 1975 in Tyler, Texas. His father is an attorney and his mother, a musician and choir director. He studied classical guitar and creative writing briefly at Tyler Junior College. He left college in his early 20s, around 1995, and began performing in the Austin-Dallas-San Antonio area, initially in coffeehouses and later at pubs and clubs throughout the region. In 1998, he released his debut South of Town which was followed by Lookin' Out the Screen Door in 2000 and Adam Carroll Live in 2002. All three were produced by Grammy Award-winning producer Lloyd Maines. While on the road, Carroll opened for some of East
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP]  Carroll was born to George and Mary Carroll (Gaynor) in Melbourne, Australia. He moved to Santa Monica, California, with his parents and older brother Ronald in 1958. In 1960 his family relocated to Newbury Park, a suburb located 45 minutes north of Los Angeles. He attended Newbury Park High School and later worked as a chef to pay for his studies at Moorpark Junior College and then later the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, where he studied art on a full scholarship.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP] Liam Carroll  Liam Carroll may refer to:
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP] Liam Carroll (judoka)  Liam Carroll (born 6 June 1946) is an Irish judoka. He competed in the men's half-middleweight event at the 1972 Summer Olympics.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP] Liam Carroll (businessman)  Liam Carroll (1 September 1950 – 2 March 2021) was an Irish property developer and businessperson known for his involvement in the Irish construction industry via his development company, Zoe Developments Group from the 1990s up to the time of the Irish property crash and the ultimate collapse of the group. Carroll often featured in the media despite his reclusive manner while his relatively frugal and reserved behaviour contrasted markedly with other public figures and property developers of the era.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP] Liam Carroll (hurler)  Liam Carroll is an Irish retired hurler who played as a midfielder for the Offaly senior team.  Born in Kinnitty, County Offaly, Carroll first played competitive hurling in his youth. He made his senior debut with Offaly during the 1984 championship and immediately became a regular member of the team. During his career Carroll won one Leinster medal. He was an All-Ireland runner-up on one occasion.  At club level Carroll is a three-time championship medallist with Kinnitty.  His retirement came following the conclusion of the 1985-86 National League.
In what city was Liam Carroll born? [SEP] The Detour (TV series)  The Detour is an American sitcom that was created by Jason Jones and Samantha Bee about a family vacation road trip that quickly devolves out of control. It stars Jones himself, Natalie Zea, Ashley Gerasimovich, Liam Carroll, Daniella Pineda, Mary Grill, and Laura Benanti. The series aired on TBS from April 11, 2016, to August 20, 2019. The second season premiered on February 21, 2017. On April 25, 2017, TBS renewed the series for a third season.  On May 11, 2018, the series was renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on June 18, 2019. On September 4, 2019, TBS canceled the series after four seasons.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] (Correct ) ''according to combined sources on the Flamengo official website. ''
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP]  Wellington Carlos da Silva (born 5 October 1987) is a Brazilian footballer who last played as a Striker for the Feirense.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP]  On 18 July 2016, Wellington Silva returned to his former team Fluminense on a four-year contract. His name changed to Wellington to not be confused with Wellington Silva. In 2018, Fluminense dealt Wellington Silva to Internacional.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP]  Born in Itabuna, Wellington started his career at Atlético Mineiro. He signed a five-year contract in June 2001. He moved to Aalborg Boldspilklub in summer 2004. He then returned to Brazil for Estrela do Norte. In summer 2007, he left for Sannois Saint-Gratien in Championnat National.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP]  Wellington da Silva de Souza(born 27 May 1987), sometimes known as just Souza, is a Brazilian football striker who currently plays for Oeste Futebol Clube. He played for Gyeongnam FC in the South Korea and J2 League side Tokushima Vortis.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] Wellington (footballer, born 1985)  Wellington Santos da Silva or simply Wellington (born August 17, 1985, in Guarulhos, Brazil) is a Brazilian left back who last played for FK Liepājas Metalurgs in Latvia.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] Wellington (footballer)  Wellington is the stage name of various Brazilian footballers:
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] Wellington Silva (footballer, born 1993)  Wellington Alves da Silva (born 6 January 1993) is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays for Gamba Osaka as a winger.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] Wellington Silva (footballer, born 1988)  Wellington Nascimento Silva (born 6 March 1988), known as Wellington Silva, is a Brazilian footballer who plays as a right back for Remo.  After mild prominence in the Flamengo, the player notified and left the team, unilaterally.
In what city was Wellington Santos da Silva born? [SEP] Joshua Da Silva  Joshua Da Silva (born 19 June 1998) is a Trinidadian cricketer. He made his domestic debut in 2018 for Trinidad and Tobago, and his international debut for the West Indies cricket team in December 2020.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP]  George Frederick Chambers (October 18, 1841–May 24, 1915) was an English barrister, amateur astronomer and author, who wrote a number of popular books about science. Chambers was born on 18 October 1841 at Upton-upon-Severn, Worcestershire. He was introduced to astronomy by his uncle, who owned an observatory in Eastbourne, Sussex, where Chambers stayed from time to time as a child. Chambers went on to study engineering asa student in London. George Chambers published his first book, A Handbook of Descriptive and Practical Astronomy, when he was aged only 19 years. It provided a review of astronomy across 600 pages. It was later republished in anexpanded form, and eventually appeared as three volumes. Chambers turned from engineering to study law. He became abarrister in 1868, and worked for many years as a parliamentary barrister. Chambers set up home in Eastbourne in 1873, where he and his
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP]   George Bennet Chambers (18 January 1881 in Ealing, London – 1969 in Surrey) was an English priest, social activist and author (writing as G. B. Chambers). Following a long ministry in the Church of England, he became the vicar of Carbrooke Church in Norfolk. An expert on folk music (in particular, plainsong ), he was also well known for his left-wing social and political views, which were evident in his well publicised commission of a crucifix incorporating hammer and sickle iconography.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP]  George Chambers (18 October 1866 – 15 June 1927) was an English cricketer. He was a left-arm fast bowler who played for Nottinghamshire. He was born in Ilkeston and died in New Awsworth. Chambers' debut came during the 1896 County Championship season, against Sussex. Batting in the tailend, he finished not out in the first innings in which he batted, and with a sturdy 16 runs in his second innings. Chambers had to wait nearly three seasons until he played first-class cricket again, during the 1899 season - in which his first action was to bowl out Stanley Jackson. He would play just two matches during the season - his final match coming against Derbyshire, who narrowly avoided an innings defeat following the wicket of Joe Humphries.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP]  Jason Chambers, of Greek, French and Irish descent, was born on March 23, 1980 in Chicago, Illinois, to Dale Chambers, a homemaker, and George West, who worked for Roadway Services. Chambers resided in Tinley Park, Illinois until the age of 12, then moved to Chicago where he resided until he was 16. At 21, Chambers moved to New York City to study acting. In 2006 he moved to Los Angeles, California. Chambers resides in Miami, Florida.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP]  Chambers was the seventh child of George Nicholson Chambers and Margaret Bennet. His father was related to the former Chief Justice of Bengal, Sir Robert Chambers, and the family were originally from Northumberland before settling in London. Chambers spent some time in his youth as a Benedictine monk, based at Caldey Island in Pembrokeshire. After changing denomination, he took successive roles in the East End of London and South Africa working with the Church of England. He was ordained a deacon in 1906 and a priest in 1907. He was appointed Vicar of Carbrooke Church in 1927, where he remained until 1955. Whilst at Carbrooke he also became Rector of Ovington, Norfolk in 1952.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP] George Chambers  The Hon. George Michael Chambers ORTT (4 October 1928 – 4 November 1997) was the second Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago. Born in Port of Spain, Chambers joined Deloitte New Zealand in 1956, and was elected to Supervisor representing Wayne Joe and Co. He served as Assistant General Secretary of the PNM before becoming Parliamentary Secretary in the Ministry of Finance in 1966. From there he went on to serve twice as Minister of Finance (1971–1974 and 1981–1986). Chambers also served as Minister of Public Utilities, Housing, National Security, Education, Planning, Industry/Commerce and Agriculture.  Chambers was one of three Deputy Leaders of the PNM when then-Prime Minister Eric Williams died suddenly in 1981. He was appointed Prime Minister by then-President Ellis Clarke and led the PNM to victory in the 1981 General Elections. In 1986 he led the PNM to its worst ever electoral defeat (winning only three of the 36 seats in Parliament). Following the defeat Chambers resigned and was succeeded as PNM leader by Patrick Manning.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP] George Frederick Chambers  George Frederick Chambers (October 18, 1841–May 24, 1915) was an English barrister, amateur astronomer and author, who wrote a number of popular books about science.  Chambers was born on 18 October 1841 at Upton-upon-Severn, Worcestershire. He was introduced to astronomy by his uncle, who owned an observatory in Eastbourne, Sussex, where Chambers stayed from time to time as a child. Chambers went on to study engineering as a student in London.<ref name="obit_mnras"/><ref name="johnson1990"/>  George Chambers published his first book,  "A Handbook of Descriptive and Practical Astronomy", when he was aged only 19 years.  It provided a review of astronomy across 600 pages. It was later republished in an expanded form, and eventually appeared as three volumes.<ref name="johnson1990"/>  Chambers turned from engineering to study law. He became a barrister in 1868, and worked for many years as a parliamentary barrister.<ref name="johnson1990"/>  Chambers set up home in Eastbourne in 1873, where he and his family lived  until 1902. He built a private observatory, which he used to study  double stars, variable stars, and star colours. He served as director of the Star-Colour Section of the British Astronomical Association  between 1894 and 1900.<ref name="johnson1990"/>  Chambers became a prolific author. He produced a revised version of "A Cycle of Celestial Objects" by Admiral W. H. Smyth.  This was followed by "Pictorial Astronomy" in 1891.  His most popular books were a series of introductions to astronomy, with volumes called "The Story of the Solar System", "The Story of the Stars",  "The Story of Eclipses", and "The Story of Comets". These served to educate general readers about science.<ref name="johnson1990"/><ref name="obit_mnras"/>  Chambers also wrote geographical guides and travel books, including a "Handbook to Eastbourne". He was the author of many magazine articles and legal works.<ref name="johnson1990"/>  George Chambers later moved to Sydenham in south London. He died there on 24 May 1915.<ref name="obit_mnras"/><ref name="johnson1990"/>
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP] George Chambers (disambiguation)  George Chambers (1928–1997) was Prime Minister of Trinidad and Tobago.  George Chambers may also refer to:
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP] The Chambers Brothers  The Chambers Brothers are an American psychedelic soul band, best known for their eleven-minute 1967 psychedelic soul hit "Time Has Come Today". The group was part of the wave of new music that integrated American blues and gospel traditions with modern psychedelic and rock elements. Their music has been kept alive through frequent use in film soundtracks.
In what city was George Chambers born? [SEP] George Chambers (painter)  George Hyde Chambers (23 October 1803 – 29 October 1840) was an English marine painter.
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]  Marie-Hélène Aubert (born 16 November 1955 in Nantes) is a French politician and former Member of the European Parliament for the West of France. She is a member of the Socialist Party, having quit the Greens in 2008. Aubert was a Vice Chair of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly.
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]  Aubert was born in Paris, France, to a single mother, Augustine Marguerite Perrinot, who pushed her daughter into a career in show business. Preceding her birth, four generations of Auberts had made artificial flowers, but the influence of war changed the direction of her life. At age five, she began performing on stage at the Théâtre du Châtelet. As a teenager, she was given voice and music lessons and at age eighteen appeared in an elaborate Mistinguett production at the Casino de Paris. She sang in the chorus at the Apollo theater in Paris and had bit parts in revues at the
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]  She was born in Quatre Bornes and was educated at Cambridge University and the Sorbonne. She moved to France in 1968. She ran as a socialist candidate in the Indre department of France and also ran as a candidate for municipal government in Saint-Julien-de-Vouvantes.
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]  Marie-Anne Libert was born in Malmedy in April 1782, twelfth of the thirteen children of Henri-Joseph Libert and his wife Marie-Jeanne-Bernadine Libert (née Dubois). The parents, educated members of the middle class who ran a tanning business, recognised her intellectual potential. She was initially a pupil of the Sépulcrines of Malmedy. At the age of eleven her parents sent her to stay in Prüm in Germany to learn German and the violin, both of which she quickly mastered. Her father recognised his daughter's emerging interest in the exact sciences and taught her algebra and geometry, so that she could follow him into the business. She was enthusiastic and pushed the education well beyond the needs of commerce. At an age when other girls only wanted to amuse themselves, Marie-Anne Libert was motivated by a thirst for knowledge: everything interested her, she wanted to know everything. Nature drew her in particular; she spent long hours walking in the area of Malmedy, particularly in the High Fens. She observed, gathered many minerals and plants then identified them in her father's office, cataloguing and classifying them. As most reference works were written in Latin, she began to teach herself Latin.
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]  ; La Belle de l'Au-delà ISBN: 978-2-89436-934-0 ; Isabelle ISBN: 978-2-89436-934-0 Helene Montreuil is born in 1952 in the city of Quebec, town of her family since 1637 and always her residence town. She is the daughter of Louis Papineau Montreuil and Lina Chicoine and she is the grand daughter of Yves Montreuil, public notary in Quebec city and of Leonie Papineau, on father's side, and of Georges Alfred Chicoine and Mary Lapointe, on mother's side. She is the third child of a four children's family : Louise, Georges, Helene and Jean. Helene Montreuil studied civil law at University Laval, common law at University of Manitoba and University of Ottawa, management at University Laval, industrial relations at University of Paris I - Pantheon-Sorbonne, and finally, ethics and education at the University
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP] Aubert  This surname has Anglo-Saxon pre-8th century origins; spelling variations include Albert, Albertson and Alberts in English names. It is derived from the Old German compound 'Aedelbeort' meaning 'noble-bright'. However, many sources show it as a French surname, with many spelling variations on the French form. It is now found in many locations of the world, spread by French Huguenot refugees, amongst others.<ref name=surnamedb />  Notable people with this surname include the following:
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]
In what city was Marie-Hélène Aubert born? [SEP]
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]  Johann Gregor Memhardt or Memhard (1607 in Linz an der Donau – 1678 in Berlin) was a master builder, architect and politician.
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]  Memhardt emigrated from Linz to the Netherlands in 1622, where he probably learned the art of fortification. He served as a military engineer with George William, Elector of Brandenburg from 1638 onwards and in 1641 was appointed court engineer. Under his leadership the Residenzschloss was repaired and a chapel built for crown princess Louise Henriette. In the Lustgarten he built a 'Lusthaus'. From 1651 the Schloss Oranienburg and its gardens were built to Memhardt's designs, known from the plan of Berlin published in 1652.
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]  Mehren was born in Helsingør, the son of merchant Johann Friedrich van Mehren (1789-1853) and Claudine Amalie Liebmann (1791-1852). He studied at the Universities of Copenhagen, Leipzig and Kiel, obtaining his doctorate in 1845. In Leipzig he was a student of Heinrich Leberecht Fleischer (1801-1888), and in Kiel he studied under Justus Olshausen (1800-1882).
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]  Dieterich was born in Stendal. He began his career as proprietor of a silk shop in Berlin, which he moved to Gotha. In 1749 he married the daughter of the bookseller Mevius and began running his shop for him.
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]  Schubert was born on 19 March 1808 in Wernesgrün (Vogtland) in the Kingdom of Saxony in Germany. He was the son of a day labourer (Tagelöhner) and was brought up by foster parents, who enabled him to have a sound education at the St Thomas School in Leipzig, at the garrison school at Königstein Fortress and at the Freemasons Institute in Dresden's Friedrichstadt. He studied civil and structural engineering (architecture) at the architecture school in the academy of Fine Arts in Dresden and in 1828 (at the age of 20 ) was given a post as a lecturer with the recently founded Royal Institute
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP] Alexanderplatz
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP]
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP] Frederick William, Elector of Brandenburg  Frederick William (; 16 February 1620 – 29 April 1688) was Elector of Brandenburg and Duke of Prussia, thus ruler of Brandenburg-Prussia, from 1640 until his death in 1688. A member of the House of Hohenzollern, he is popularly known as "the Great Elector" ("") because of his military and political achievements. Frederick William was a staunch pillar of the Calvinist faith, associated with the rising commercial class. He saw the importance of trade and promoted it vigorously. His shrewd domestic reforms gave Prussia a strong position in the post-Westphalian political order of north-central Europe, setting Prussia up for elevation from duchy to kingdom, achieved under his son and successor.
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP] Johann Mannhardt Johann Mannhardt (August 31, 1798 – August 25, 1878) was a German clockmaker, mechanic, and inventor. Mannhardt was born in Tegernsee, and worked initially as a goatherd. He learned the clockmaking trade, however, and developed a strong talent for mechanical work. In 1826 he built a clock for the clocktower in Egern. In 1844 he moved to Munich, where he designed a new lead-sealing machine and oil mill, as well as the iron framings for the skylights on the roof of the Alte Pinakothek. He also built a number of machines, including saws, lathes, and peat presses, many
In what city was Johann Gregor Memhardt born? [SEP] Johann Rudolf Zumsteeg Johann Rudolf Zumsteeg (10 January 1760 – 27 January 1802) was a German composer and conductor. Zumsteeg championed the operas of Mozart in Stuttgart, staging the first performances there of "Die Zauberflöte," "Don Giovanni," and "Cosi fan tutte". He also was a prolific composer of "lieder" and ballads. His ballads had a great influence on the young Franz Schubert, who imitated a number of Zumsteeg's as studies (some even in exactly the same keys) while he was a teenager. Zumsteeg was born in Sachsenflur, Lauda-Königshofen, and received his early education at the Carlschule in Stuttgart. There Zumsteeg
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP]  Papagiannis was born in Argyrocastro, Epirus region, Ottoman Empire (modern Gjirokastër, southern Albania) to a local Greek family. He was one of the representatives of the town's Greek community. Papagiannis was one of the most active merchants in his homeland as well as in the nearby Venetian possessions on the Ionian coast.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP]  Rev. Archimandrite Chrysostomos Papasarantopoulos was born Christos Papasarantopoulos in 1903 in Vasilitsi, Messenia, Greece to Theodoros Papasarantopoulos and Stavroula Trigourea (afterwards Nun Sebastiani), the seventh child of the family. He was born into a devout Christian home, and from childhood he devoted his life to Christ. At the age of 10 he lost his father, and was forced to leave school in order to work. At 15 years of age he left his family home in secret and went to settle at the Koroni monastery in order to pursue his longing for the spiritual life; however he soon left this monastery since his relatives would visit him and beg him to return to the family. Afterwards, he went to Kalamata, to the then well-known Hermitage of Panagoulakis (Holy Monastery of the Annunciation of the Virgin Mary), known for its strict asceticism; here he became a monk. The excesses of the Igumen there and the very strict lifestyle of that Hermitage overcame him and left him with a permanent health problem.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP]  Frangiskos Papamanolis (Φραγκίσκος Παπαμανώλης, born on December 5, 1936 in Ano Syros, Greece) is the Roman Catholic bishop emeritus of Syros and Milos, bishop emeritus of Santorini and Apostolic Administrator emeritus of Crete. In 1962 Papamanolis was ordained priest of the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin and on July 27, 1974 was appointed bishop, being ordained on October 20, 1974.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP]  Stefanoudakis was born in Heraklion, Greece in 1983. He suffered permanent spinal chord injuries after a traffic accident in 2007.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP]  Papakyriakopoulos was born in Chalandri, then in the Municipality of Athens, now in North Athens.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP] Petros Stefanou  Petros Stefanou (, born on 17 August 1963, Ermoupoli, Syros, Greece) is a Catholic prelate and Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syros and Milos from 13 May 2014.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP] Frangiskos Papamanolis  Frangiskos Papamanolis (, born on December 5, 1936 in Ano Syros, Greece) is the Roman Catholic bishop emeritus of Syros and Milos, bishop emeritus of Santorini and Apostolic Administrator emeritus of Crete. In 1962 Papamanolis was ordained priest of the Order of Friars Minor Capuchin and on July 27, 1974 was appointed bishop, being ordained on October 20, 1974.
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP] Yiannis Papaioannou, and Apostolos Chatzichristos. Grigoris Asikis Grigoris Asikis () (1890, Istanbul, Constantinople Vilayet – 7 October 1966, Athens) was a Greek singer and songwriter of urban Greek music, "Rembetiko." He wrote lyrics for most of the songs he recorded and played the outi (the Greek oud). Asikis was the third child of Victor Asikis of Lesbos and Marianthi from the Kontoskali district of Constantinople. Ever since he was a child, he thought he had an exceptional voice and bought an outi at the age of 15. He sang and played the outi for family and friends, but did not
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP] Yorgos Manessis Yorgos Manessis (26 May 1931 – 27 January 2015), was a Greek pianist and pedagogue, with a short but significant career as soloist. Manessis was born on 26 May 1931 in Piraeus, Greece. Soon afterwards, his mother Ioanna Yapapa (a pianist and pupil of Emil von Sauer who had also studied Emile Dalcroze’s method at his school in Switzerland) decided that the newly-born should be raised in close contact with nature. Thus, the family moved to Manessis’ father estate in Portoheli, in the region of Argolida (Pelopponisos). There he had the privilege of enjoying a quite unique upbringing,
In what city was Franghískos Papamanólis born? [SEP] corporate collections in Paris, Santa Fe, San Francisco and San Miguel de Allende. He currently lives in San Francisco but travels regularly to San Miguel de Allende, Mexico and Athens, Greece as well as the Aegean islands of Ikaria and Samos, where his parents and grandparents were born. N. A. Diaman N. A. Diaman (known as Nikos Diaman born Nickolas Anthony Diaman on November 1, 1936 in San Francisco) is a gay American novelist and artist. He received a BA in 1958 from the University of Southern California with a major in humanities. He returned to San Francisco after graduation
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]  Stig Kleven (born 12 January 1967) is a Norwegian sport wrestler. He was born in Notodden and represented the club IF Urædd. He competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics, where he placed 4th in Greco-Roman wrestling. He placed sixth at the 1994 World Wrestling Championships.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]  Kleve was born in Oslo on 24 February 1926, the son of wholesaler Alfred Lauritz Kleve and Miriam Blom Bakke. He was a resistance member during the German occupation of Norway, and was arrested in May 1942 and incarcerated at Møllergata 19 and at the Grini concentration camp until June 1944.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]  Strøm grew up in Kristiania (now Oslo) and studied acting. He performed as a student at the National Theatre in Oslo, and he made his debut at the private Mayol Theater in 1920. In the early 1920s, Strøm was engaged at the Stavanger Theater, where he staged Veslefrikk med fela (Little Freddy and His Fiddle) with children in all the roles. He later moved back to his hometown, where he joined the artists' colony in Ekeberg. In the 1930s and 1940s, Strøm held reading and cultural evenings. He also ran his own one-man theater with support from the church and the Ministry of Education, and later also in a touring partnership with the National Traveling Theater.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]  Stig Holmås (born 25 February 1946) is a Norwegian librarian, poet, novelist and children's writer. He was born in Bergen. He made his literary debut in the 1969 anthology Åtte fra Bergen. Among his poetry collections are Vi er mange from 1970 and Tenke på i morgen from 1972. Among his novels are O.K. Corral from 1991 and  Regn from 2008. He has written two book series for children about the Indigenous peoples of the Americas. He is the father of Heikki Holmås.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]  He attended Trondhjem Technical School from 1900 to 1902. After spending the following two years in America, he settled in Strinda in 1905. He was mainly an engineer and technical consultant, but also a farmer. From 1910 to 1914 he took further education, in construction engineering, at the new Norwegian Institute of Technology. He was then an assistant at the municipal engineer's office, and from 1918 he ran the factory Strindens Torvstrøfabrik. He continued as an engineering consultant by leading the construction of Strinda Hospital (1923–1924), the Trøndelag Art Exhibition (1929–1930), Trøndelag Travbane (1931) and Reitgjerdet Asylum (1932). He was an elected member of Strinda municipal council from 1916 to 1922, serving as deputy mayor for the last three years.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP] Stig Kleven  Stig Kleven (born 12 January 1967) is a Norwegian sport wrestler.  He was born in Notodden and represented the club IF Urædd. He competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics, where he placed 4th in Greco-Roman wrestling. He placed sixth at the 1994 World Wrestling Championships.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP]
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP] 1967 in Norway  Events in the year 1967 in Norway.
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP] Deaths in March 2021  The following is a list of notable deaths in March 2021.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
In what city was Stig Kleven born? [SEP] List of Denmark international footballers  This list of Denmark international footballers contains football players who have played for the Denmark national football team, listed according to their number of caps. As more than 750 players have played for the team since it started officially registering its players in 1908, only players with 25 or more official caps are included. Goalkeeper Sophus Hansen was the first Dane to reach 25 caps, doing so on June 5, 1919. Since then, more than 120 Danish footballers have reached 25 caps for the Danish national team.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP]  Li Shengjiao was born in 1935 in Nanjing, the then capital of China, in a distinguished family. His father Dr. Li Linsi was an educator and diplomat who enjoyed equal fame with Shanghai diplomat Wellington Koo, while his mother Tang Liling was a brilliant pianist who was considered by Italian pianist Mario Paci as "the brightest star of tomorrow". His family moved to Shanghai when he was two years old in 1937. He grew up in Shanghai and made a name for himself in the city for his talent. With a great family tradition and remarkable natural talent, Li was able to
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP]  Li was born in Hong Kong and his family migrated to Singapore in 1999. His mother is a Taiwanese which means that he was eligible to represent either Hong Kong or Taiwan before he obtained Singapore citizenship in November 2016. He is also a supporter of his former football club Balestier Khalsa, even creating a Facebook fan page titled ‘Tiger’s Troopers’.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP]  Li Shengsu was born on February 16, 1966 in Baixiang County, Xingtai City of Hebei, China. She began her career in performing Chinese opera after she was specially recruited into the Yu Opera Troupe of Baixiang County by Wei Shengliang (魏胜良) who was a teacher in the troupe. At that time, she was ten years old. In 1979, at the age of thirteen, Li converted to learning Peking opera since the Hebei Vocational Art College was recruiting students for Peking opera. There, under the instructions of Qi Lanqiu (齐兰秋), she began learning how to perform Dan roles such as Tsing Yi (青衣) and Hua Dan (花旦). Upon graduating in 1986, Li was assigned
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP]  Li Min (born 4 August 1992) is a Hong Kong-Singaporean footballer, currently a free agent in Singapore.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP]  Li was born in 1944 in Kunming, Yunnan, at Huidian Hospital (惠滇医院), she graduated from Hunan Art College (now part of Hunan Normal University) in 1961. From 1961 to 1974, Li worked in Hunan Opera Theatre. In 1970, Li performed Tinker a Pan (补锅). Chinese officials thought she was a revisionist black talent. Officials searched her house, confiscated her property, and she was sentenced to hard labor. From 1974 to 1984, Li was transferred to Central Philharmonic Orchestra as a solo. Then she has toured with the Central Philharmonic Orchestra to perform in China and abroad, including in France, Japan and the United
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP] Lin Hwai-min  Lin Hwai-min (; born 19 February 1947) is a Taiwanese dancer, writer, choreographer, and founder of Cloud Gate Dance Theater of Taiwan.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP] Prince Zhanghuai  Li Xian () (29 January 655 – 13 March 684), courtesy name Mingyun (), formally Crown Prince Zhanghuai (), named Li De () from 675 to 680, was a crown prince of the Chinese Tang Dynasty. He was the sixth son of Emperor Gaozong, and the second son of his second wife Empress Wu (later known as Wu Zetian). He was known for writing commentaries for the "Book of Later Han", the official history of the Eastern Han Dynasty. He became crown prince in 675 after his older brother Li Hong's death (which traditional historians believed to be a poisoning by Empress Wu), but soon fell out of favor and generosity with Empress Wu herself and that's what caused his downfall. In 680, Empress Wu had her associates accuse Li Xian of treason, and he was demoted to commoner rank and exiled. In 684, after Emperor Gaozong's death, Empress Wu, then empress dowager, had her associate Qiu Shenji (丘神勣) visit Li Xian to force him to commit suicide.  In 706, his younger brother Emperor Zhongzong provided Li Xian with an honorable burial by interring his remains at the Qianling Mausoleum.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP] Liu Mingchuan  Liu Ming-chuan (1836–1896), courtesy name Xingsan, lived in the late Qing dynasty. He was born in Hefei, Anhui. Liu became involved in the suppression of the Taiping Rebellion at an early age, and worked closely with Zeng Guofan and Li Hongzhang as he emerged as an important Huai Army officer. In the aftermath of the Sino-French War, succeeding Ding Richang he was appointed the first governor of the newly established Taiwan Province.<ref name="title" group="lower-alpha"/> Today he is remembered for his efforts in modernizing Taiwan during his tenure as governor, and several institutions have been given his name, including Ming Chuan University in Taipei.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP] Empress Zhenshun  Consort Wu, imperial consort rank Huifei (武惠妃) (d. 737), posthumously Empress Zhenshun (貞順皇后, literally "the virtuous and serene empress"), was an imperial consort of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty, during the reign of Emperor Xuanzong. She was Emperor Xuanzong's favorite concubine during her lifetime, and after the death of his wife Empress Wang in 724, she became honored like an empress inside the palace, court, by the emperor and among the public until her death; Thus, she was the undisputed mistress of the palace, and wielded political power in the court and influence over the decisions of Emperor Xuanzong. She never formally became empress on account of her father Wu Youzhi (武攸止) being a nephew of Emperor Xuanzong's grandmother Wu Zetian, the memory about whose takeover of the Tang throne terrified the officials. But the power she gained within the palace and the political circles of the court, and the love of Emperor Xuanzong for her, made her authority and respect equal to the authority and respect of the empress.
In what city was Li Huai Min born? [SEP] Shing-Tung Yau  Shing-Tung Yau (; ; born April 4, 1949) is a Chinese-American mathematician and the William Caspar Graustein Professor of Mathematics at Harvard University. In April 2022, Yau announced retirement from Harvard to become Chair Professor of mathematics at Tsinghua University.  Yau was born in Shantou, China, moved to Hong Kong at a young age, and to the United States in 1969. He was awarded the Fields Medal in 1982, in recognition of his contributions to partial differential equations, the Calabi conjecture, the positive energy theorem, and the Monge–Ampère equation. Yau is considered one of the major contributors to the development of modern differential geometry and geometric analysis. The impact of Yau's work can be seen in the mathematical and physical fields of differential geometry, partial differential equations, convex geometry, algebraic geometry, enumerative geometry, mirror symmetry, general relativity, and string theory, while his work has also touched upon applied mathematics, engineering, and numerical analysis.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]  Florian Reichstädter (born 3 July 1980 in Vienna) is an Austrian sailor, who specialized in two-person dinghy (470) class. He represented Austria, along with his partner Matthias Schmid, in two editions of the Olympic Games (2008 and 2012), and has also been training for Yacht Club Breitenbrunn in Germany throughout most of his sporting career under his personal coaches Alfred Pelinka and Christian Binder. As of September 2013, Reichstadter is ranked second in the world for two-person dinghy class by the International Sailing Federation, following his successes at the North American Championships and Sailing World Cup Series in Miami, Florida, United States. Reichstadter made his official debut at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where he paired up with crew member
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]  Von Bornstädt lives in Berlin since July 2017.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]  Pronold was born in Passau. After graduating from high school in 1992 at the Robert Koch High School in Deggendorf, Pronold initially completed training - alongside comedian Django Asül - to become a banker at Sparkasse Deggendorf. In 1995, Pronold began to study law at the University of Regensburg, which he finished in 2000 with the first state law exam. After completing his legal clerkship, he also passed the second state examination in 2002 and has since been admitted as a lawyer. His activity and partnership in a law firm is currently suspended due to his work as Parliamentary State Secretary.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]  Florian Pumhösl was born in Vienna in 1971, where he lives and works. He studied at the Höhere Graphische Bundes-Lehr- und Versuchsanstalt in Vienna (1991) and the Hochschule für angewandte Kunst Wien (Diploma, 1997). His international career began at the age of twenty two, when he participated in Backstage: Topologie Zeitgenössischer Kunst at the.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]  Born in Friedrichshain, Berlin, Gelbhaar has lived in the Berlin district of Pankow since 1980. He attended the "Neumannschule" (30th POS) and the Carl-von-Ossietzky-Gymnasium, and later became a student at Humboldt University. He completed his legal clerkship in the state of Brandenburg. Afterwards he worked as a criminal defence lawyer.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP]
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP] Austria at the 2016 Summer Olympics  Austria competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 5 to 21 August 2016. It was the nation's twenty-seventh appearance at the Summer Olympics. Austrian athletes have appeared in every edition of the Summer Olympic Games, with the exception of the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp. The Austrian Olympic Committee () confirmed a squad of 71 athletes, 37 men and 34 women, to compete across 22 sports at the Games. The nation's full roster had one more participant than the previous two Games.  The Austrian roster featured 29 returning Olympians, with Chinese-born table tennis player Liu Jia, the nation's flag bearer in the opening ceremony, leading them as the only competitor going to her fifth consecutive Games. Apart from Liu, judoka and Beijing 2008 silver medalist Ludwig Paischer, dressage rider Victoria Max-Theurer, and skiff duo Nico Delle-Karth and Nikolaus Resch in the 49er class also topped the roster lineup to make their fourth Olympic appearance. Other notable Austrian athletes included world-ranked sailor Lara Vadlau and her Polish-born partner Jolanta Ogar in the women's 470, London 2012 sixth-place finalist Corinna Kuhnle in slalom kayaking, and twin sisters Anna-Maria and Eirini Alexandri.  Austria left Rio de Janeiro with only a bronze medal, won by sailing duo of Thomas Zajac and Tanja Frank in the Nacra 17 class, saving its pride from returning empty-handed as they had done at London 2012. Slalom canoeist Corinna Kuhnle, rifle shooter Olivia Hofmann, discus thrower Lukas Weißhaidinger, and rower Magdalena Lobnig (sixth, women's single sculls) were among the Austrian athletes progressing to the finals of their respective sporting events, but came closest to the nation's medal haul.
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP] Florian Maier-Aichen Florian Maier-Aichen (born 1973 in Stuttgart, Germany) is a landscape photographer based in Cologne, Germany and Los Angeles, USA. He uses a combination of traditional photographic techniques and computer imaging. Maier-Aichen studied at the University of California, Los Angeles, the University of Essen in Germany, and at the Hoegskolan for Fotografi och Film Gothenborg in Sweden. His work features in several important public collections including the Denver Art Museum, the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York, and the Saatchi Gallery
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP] Florian Hill Florian Hill (born April 9, 1984 in Germany) is a professional mountaineer and entrepreneur. He currently lives in New York City and Haines, Alaska. Hill was introduced to the mountains by his family early on in life. By the age of five, he had already climbed his first 10,000 foot mountain with his father in the Alps. In his late adolescence he competed in Olympic boxing in national and international tournaments, training at the Olympic Training Center in Germany. He was awarded Citizen of Honor in his hometown in the federal state of Hesse. Florian's passion for the
In what city was Florian Reichstädter born? [SEP] Engelbert Mühlbacher Engelbert Mühlbacher (4 October 1843 – 17 July 1903) was an Austrian historian. Born in Gresten, he received his classical education in Linz, Upper Austria being his family's home region. In 1862 he became a novice among the Austin Canons in Sankt Florian. After completing his theological studies there, he was ordained priest in 1867. As Alfred Ritter von Arneth relates in his memoirs, historical studies had been successfully cultivated at St. Florian's since Provost Arneth's time, and Mühlbacher was soon active in this domain. Among his writings are articles on St. Florian's Gerhoh von Reichersberg, and the
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP]   Jean-Jacques Lefranc (also Le Franc), Marquis de Pompignan (10 August 1709 – 1 November 1784) was a French man of letters and erudition, who published a considerable output of theatrical work, poems, literary criticism, and polemics; treatises on archeology, nature, travel and many other subjects; and a wide selection of highly regarded translations of the classics and other works from several European languages including English. His life and career, as well as his literary and other works are noteworthy today because of their location at the very center of the French Enlightenment; and although some of the positions he took are also considered to have been
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP]  the Parlement de Toulouse, where Jean-Jacques was also to have a brief tenure. His education was entrusted to " ... the most skillful masters at the Capital, where he found himself among the disciples of the celebrated Pere Poré. The student made rapid progress, and was not slow in showing proof of a talent as rare as it was precocious. After successfully completing his classical studies [at the Collège de Louis-le-Grand], he remained in Paris to attend the School of Law." Voltaire, fifteen years older than Lefranc, attended this school from 1704 to 1711, and was also influenced by Pere Poré. He joined the staff of the Cours des Aides in 1730, during
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Christelle Lefranc (born 1980), French fashion model from Paris, France ; Jean Georges Lefranc de Pompignan (1715–1790), French clergyman and younger brother of Jean-Jacques ; Jean-Jacques Lefranc, Marquis de Pompignan (1709–1784), French jurist, man of letters and gardener ; Jean-Marc Lefranc (born 1947), member of the National Assembly of France ; Victor Lefranc (1809–1883), French lawyer and politician, moderated republican, Minister of Agriculture and Trade, then Interior Minister Lefranc may refer to:
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP]  His marriage with a wealthy widow enabled him to devote himself fully to literature, and also funded his campaign for a seat in the Académie française, which was achieved in 1759. However, on his formal induction into the Academie in 1760, he made an ill-considered speech violently attacking the Encyclopaedists, many of whom were in his audience and had voted for him. Lefranc soon had reason to repent of his action, for the epigrams and stories circulated by those he had attacked made it difficult for him to remain in Paris, and he returned to his native town, where he spent the rest of his life gardening, writing poetry and translating from the classics. Jean-François de la Harpe, who is severe enough on Lefranc in his correspondence, does his abilities full justice in his Cours littéraire, and ranks him next to JB Rousseau among French lyric poets. With those of other 18th-century poets his works may be studied in the Petits poètes français (1838) of Prosper Poitevin. His Œuvres complètes (5 vols.) were published in 1781, selections (2 vols.) in 1800, 1813, 1822.
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP]  Jean Georges Lefranc de Pompignan (22 February 1715 in Montauban – 29 December 1790 in Paris) was a French clergyman, younger brother of Jean-Jacques Lefranc, Marquis de Pompignan. Pompignan was the archbishop of Vienne against whose defense of the faith Voltaire launched the good-natured mockery of Les Lettres d'un Quaker. Elected to the Estates General, he passed over to the Liberal side, and led the 149 members of the clergy who united with the third estate to form the National Assembly. He was one of its first presidents, and was minister of public worship when the Civil Constitution of the Clergy was forced upon the clergy.
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Jean Georges Lefranc de Pompignan  Jean Georges Lefranc de Pompignan (22 February 1715 in Montauban – 29 December 1790 in Paris) was a French clergyman, younger brother of Jean-Jacques Lefranc, Marquis de Pompignan.  Pompignan was the archbishop of Vienne against whose defense of the faith Voltaire launched the good-natured mockery of "Les Lettres d'un Quaker". Elected to the Estates General, he passed over to the Liberal side, and led the 149 members of the clergy who united with the third estate to form the National Assembly. He was one of its first presidents, and was minister of public worship when the Civil Constitution of the Clergy was forced upon the clergy.
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Jean-Jacques Lefranc, Marquis de Pompignan  Jean-Jacques Lefranc (also Le Franc), Marquis de Pompignan (10 August 1709 – 1 November 1784) was a French man of letters and erudition, who published a considerable output of theatrical work, poems, literary criticism, and polemics; treatises on archeology, nature, travel and many other subjects; and a wide selection of highly regarded translations of the classics and other works from several European languages including English.  His life and career, as well as his literary and other works are noteworthy today because of their location at the very center of the French Enlightenment; and although some of the positions he took are also considered to have been formative contributions to the counter-Enlightenment tendencies that were being articulated in parallel, he remains, in many respects, the typical Enlightenment man.  The prolific volumes of literary works are now of academic interest only, mainly to flesh out aspects of the culture of the time, which embraced a period in which tensions that were to explode in the French Revolution five years after his death were still held in check. Lefranc is remembered today, if he is at all, as a consequence of the maiden speech he gave at the Académie française in 1760, which led to him becoming forever known and defined as "the enemy of Voltaire".  His library of some 25,000 volumes was sold after his death by his son, and became founding collections for no less than three learned institution in Toulouse. He built a neo-classical chateau at Pompignan, and over a period of thirty-five years created one of the earliest and most extensive "parcs à fabriques" (or French landscape garden).  The chateau stands in good order today, and although the park and its follies have been neglected, the extensive hydrological system still functions. In May 2011 the decision was taken to route the planned Bordeaux-Toulouse TGV and high-speed freight rail lines through the center of the Lefranc's landscape park.
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Olympe de Gouges  Olympe de Gouges (; born Marie Gouze; 7 May 17483 November 1793) was a French playwright and political activist whose writings on women's rights and abolitionism reached a large audience in various countries. She began her career as a playwright in the early 1780s. As political tension rose in France, Olympe de Gouges became increasingly politically engaged. She became an outspoken advocate against the slave trade in the French colonies in 1788. At the same time, she began writing political pamphlets. In her Declaration of the Rights of Woman and of the Female Citizen (1791), she challenged the practice of male authority and the notion of male-female inequality. She was executed by guillotine during the Reign of Terror (1793–1794) for attacking the regime of the Revolutionary government and for her association with the Girondists.
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Lefranc  Lefranc is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what city was Jean-Georges Lefranc de Pompignan born? [SEP] Jean Sylvain Bailly  Jean Sylvain Bailly (; 15 September 1736 – 12 November 1793) was a French astronomer, mathematician, freemason, and political leader of the early part of the French Revolution. He presided over the Tennis Court Oath, served as the mayor of Paris from 1789 to 1791, and was ultimately guillotined during the Reign of Terror.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]  Bradley David Goddard (born May 17, 1977) is a Canadian actor. His identical twin brother Chris Goddard is also an actor.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]  Goddard was born in Houston, Texas and was raised in Los Alamos, New Mexico. He is the son of Colleen Mary (Hogan), a teacher, and Dr. Laurence Woodbury Goddard. He attended Los Alamos High School and graduated in 1993. He then enrolled in University of Colorado Boulder and graduated with B.A. in English in 1997.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]  Brad and his brother attended The University of Waterloo theatre programme. By the end of his study at Waterloo, Brad had appeared in 26 productions and had taught the University's Drama Department First Year acting course for three years. After moving to Toronto, Ontario Brad joined Skye Management and landed the role of Carter Travis alongside his twin brother Chris in the role of Cody Travis in the MTV series Undressed (which twice was awarded the GLAAD Media Award for its positive portrayal of queer culture and icons). They have featured in two Season 6 story lines, and appeared in 10 episodes. Brad then went on to work with fellow University of Waterloo grads in Studio 180's inaugural production, the Canadian theatre premiere
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]  Rowswell was born at the Sandringham Hospital and grew up in the suburb of Beaumaris. He was educated at St Bede's College in Mentone.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]  Dwyer was born in Wigan, Greater Manchester, England.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP] Brad Goddard  Bradley David Goddard (born May 17, 1977) is a Canadian actor.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP]
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP] Drew Goddard  Andrew Brion Hogan Goddard (born February 26, 1975) is an American filmmaker. He began his career writing episodes for the television shows "Buffy the Vampire Slayer", "Angel", "Alias", and "Lost". After moving into screenwriting in film, he wrote "Cloverfield" (2008), "World War Z" (2013), and "The Martian" (2015), the latter earning him a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. In 2011, he made his directorial debut with "The Cabin in the Woods".  In 2015, Goddard created the Netflix series "Daredevil". Soon after, he directed several episodes of "The Good Place" and served as an executive producer for "10 Cloverfield Lane" (2016) and "The Cloverfield Paradox" (2018), the next installments in the "Cloverfield" franchise. His latest project, "Bad Times at the El Royale" (2018), starred an ensemble cast consisting of Jeff Bridges, Cynthia Erivo, Dakota Johnson, Jon Hamm, Cailee Spaeny, Lewis Pullman, and Chris Hemsworth.
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP] Brad Paisley  Bradley Douglas Paisley (born October 28, 1972) is an American country music singer and songwriter. Starting with his 1999 debut album "Who Needs Pictures", he has released eleven studio albums and a Christmas compilation on the Arista Nashville label, with all of his albums certified Gold or higher by the RIAA. He has scored 35 Top 10 singles on the US "Billboard" Country Airplay chart, 20 of which have reached number one. He set a new record in 2009 for the most consecutive singles (10) reaching the top spot on that chart.  Paisley has sold over 11 million albums and has won three Grammy Awards, 14 Academy of Country Music Awards, 14 Country Music Association Awards, and two American Music Awards. He has also earned country music's crowning achievement, becoming a member of the Grand Ole Opry. Paisley also wrote songs for Pixar's "Cars" franchise ("Behind the Clouds", "Find Yourself", "Collision of Worlds" with Robbie Williams, "Nobody's Fool", etc.).
In what city was Brad Goddard born? [SEP] Cane Ashby  Cane Ashby is a fictional character from the American CBS soap opera "The Young and the Restless". He is portrayed by Australian actor Daniel Goddard, who had auditioned for Brad Snyder on "As the World Turns" but was recommended for a role on "The Young and the Restless" instead. The role was to be portrayed as an American, but Goddard's Australian descent influenced the character's background. Former head writer Lynn Marie Latham introduced him during the episode airing on January 12, 2007 as an Australian bartender in search of his family. Latham created Cane as the son of Phillip Chancellor II (Donnelly Rhodes) and Jill Abbott (Jess Walton) but the character's background was rewritten by Maria Arena Bell in 2009, re-establishing him as the son of Colin and Genevieve Atkinson (Tristan Rogers and Genie Francis).  Though characterized as "mysterious", Cane is "loyal and dedicated", while Goddard described the character as a "typical Australian, working-class kind of guy". He was the first member of the Atkinson family to appear on the series, followed by his parents and identical twin brother. Soon after his debut, he became a leading character, a decision praised by viewers and critics. The character has been involved with Amber Moore (Adrienne Frantz), Chloe Mitchell (Elizabeth Hendrickson) and most notably Lily Winters (Christel Khalil), a romance that garnered significant fan attention. In 2009, Cane and Lily were married; Global BC would later call Lily the love of Cane's life. The pair had two children, Charlie and Mattie Ashby.  In 2011, Goddard was fired from the role, and Cane was shot to death onscreen. However, the actor was rehired soon after viewers campaigned for his return, revealing that Cane's identical twin brother was in fact the man who died. Cane's marriage to Lily was sacrificed, however, they later remarried on Valentine's Day in 2012. While the character's debut received a mixed response, Goddard has been widely acclaimed for his portrayal; "Canyon News" said that he portrays the character honestly, and is "always dependable, on fire and exciting".
What genre is Drive On? [SEP]  novel, then print those words in large font, and hung them on his walls or draw pictures during viewings of Drive. Although Jewel's music was used in the score, at the last minute the studio hired composer Cliff Martinez to imitate the style and feel of Jewel's bands Chromatics and Glass Candy. Refn gave him a sampling of songs he liked and asked Martinez to emulate the sound, resulting in "a kind of retro, 80ish, synthesizer europop". Editor Mat Newman suggested Drives opening credits song: "Nightcall" by French electronic musician Kavinsky. Most of its ethereal electronic-pop score was composed by Martinez. Refn was a particular fan of his ambient music on the Sex,
What genre is Drive On? [SEP]  Tarantino's Pulp Fiction, and [with] angst-laden love scenes that would not be out of place in a Scandinavian drama". Christopher Hawthorne, also from the Los Angeles Times, has compared it to the works of Walter Hill, John Carpenter, Nathanael West, J. G. Ballard, and Mike Davis. According to Refn, Drive is dedicated to filmmaker Alejandro Jodorowsky and includes shades of Jodorowsky's existentialism. Drive has been described as a tough, hard-edged, neo-noir, art house feature, extremely violent and very stylish, with European art and grindhouse influences. Drive also refers to 1970s and 1980s cult hits such as The Day of the Locust (1975)
What genre is Drive On? [SEP]  as the film itself. She stated the album, beginning with non-Martinez songs instead of mixing it up for a more enjoyable listening experience, cost it a star. In September 2016, Lakeshore and Invada Records released a fifth anniversary special edition pressing of the soundtrack, featuring new liner notes and artwork. That same month, Johnny Jewel, College, Electric Youth, and Cliff Martinez discussed the impact of the soundtrack and film on their lives and contemporary music culture. Jewel told Aaron Vehling that Drives "blend of sonic and visual nostalgia with a contemporary spin is always deadly." The soundtrack was listed on Spin magazine's list of 40 Movie Soundtracks That Changed Alternative Music. Charts
What genre is Drive On? [SEP]  Drive is an expansion of a story of the same name that Sallis originally wrote for the noir anthology Measures of Poison (2002), published by Dennis McMillan Publications. The novel was published by Poisoned Pen Press on September 1, 2005.
What genre is Drive On? [SEP]  climbing as high as number four on the sales charts. The album was released on vinyl in June 2012, by Mondo. The nineteen-track album has amassed positive reviews. James Verniere of the Boston Herald graded it an "A", stating, "The cool crowd isn't just watching Drive; they're listening to it, too ... The Drive soundtrack is such an integral part of the experience of the film, once you see it, you can't imagine the film without it." AllMusic reviewer James Christopher Monger selected opening track "Nightcall", "I Drive", "Hammer" and "Bride of Deluxe" as soundtrack's highlights. Mayer Nissim of Digital Spy gave it a four out of five star rating, finding it as
What genre is Drive On? [SEP] Drive By (song)  "Drive By" is a song by American roots rock band Train from their sixth studio album, "California 37". It was released in the United States as the album's lead single on January 10, 2012, three months before the release of "California 37". The song was written by lead singer Pat Monahan and Norwegian songwriting duo Espen Lind, Amund Bjørklund, the same team responsible for Train's 2009 hit single "Hey, Soul Sister".  "Drive By" peaked at number 10 on the "Billboard" Hot 100, becoming the band's third (and final) top 10 hit in the US. It was awarded a double platinum certification by the RIAA on July 23, 2012, for more than 2 million sales in the US. Internationally, the song became a top ten hit in 13 countries. Train performed the song on television series "90210" in the episode "Blood Is Thicker Than Mud", which aired on March 13, 2012. Train also performed a parody entitled "Five By" with Elmo and Count von Count for an episode of "Sesame Street".
What genre is Drive On? [SEP] Drive (2011 film)  Drive is a 2011 American action drama film directed by Nicolas Winding Refn. The screenplay, written by Hossein Amini, is based on James Sallis's 2005 novel of the same name. The film stars Ryan Gosling as an unnamed Hollywood stunt driver who moonlights as a getaway driver. He quickly grows fond of his neighbor, Irene (Carey Mulligan), and her young son, Benicio. When her debt-ridden husband, Standard (Oscar Isaac), is released from prison, the two men take part in what turns out to be a botched million-dollar heist that endangers the lives of everyone involved. The film co-stars Bryan Cranston, Christina Hendricks, Ron Perlman, and Albert Brooks.  Producers Marc Platt and Adam Siegel optioned the source novel after Siegel read a review from "Publishers Weekly". Adapting the book proved to be challenging for Amini, as it had a nonlinear narrative. Gosling, one of Platt's top casting choices, eventually signed on for the lead, as he wanted to star in an action-oriented project. Gosling played a pivotal role in the film's production, which included hiring Refn as director and Beth Mickle as production designer. Newton Thomas Sigel oversaw the principal photography, which started on September 25, 2010, was shot on location in various parts of Los Angeles, and ended on November 12.  Before its September 2011 release, "Drive" had been shown at a number of film festivals, including the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where it received a standing ovation. Refn won the festival's Best Director Award. The film was praised for its direction, cinematography, performances (particularly Gosling and Brooks'), visuals, action sequences, and musical score; however, some critics were appalled by its graphic violence and found that potentially detrimental to the film's box office success. Nonetheless, the film was still a commercial success, grossing $81 million against a production budget of $15 million. Several critics listed "Drive" as one of the best films of 2011, including the National Board of Review. Its honors include a nomination for Best Sound Editing at the 84th Academy Awards.
What genre is Drive On? [SEP] At the Drive-In  At the Drive-In was an American post-hardcore band from El Paso, Texas, formed in 1994. The band's most recent line-up consisted of Cedric Bixler-Zavala (vocals), Omar Rodríguez-López (guitar, vocals), Paul Hinojos (bass), Tony Hajjar (drums) and Keeley Davis (guitar, vocals).  After several early line-up changes, the band solidified into a five-piece, consisting of Bixler-Zavala, Rodríguez-López, Jim Ward, Hinojos and Hajjar. At the Drive-In released three studio albums and five EPs before breaking up in 2001. Their third and final album before their split, 2000's "Relationship of Command", received a number of accolades and is cited as a landmark of the post-hardcore genre. Following the breakup, Bixler-Zavala and Rodríguez-López formed the Mars Volta while Ward, Hinojos, and Hajjar formed Sparta.  At the Drive-In reunited in January 2012 and played the 2012 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, as well as the 2012 Lollapalooza Festival. In 2016, the band reunited for a second time, with guitarist and occasional lead vocalist Jim Ward no longer participating. He was replaced by Sparta's Keeley Davis. The band released their fourth studio album, "in•ter a•li•a", in 2017. The band announced an indefinite hiatus in November 2018.
What genre is Drive On? [SEP] Drive-By Truckers  Drive-By Truckers are an American rock band based in Athens, Georgia. Two of five current members (Patterson Hood and Mike Cooley) are originally from The Shoals region of northern Alabama and met as roommates at the University of North Alabama. The group also has roots in Richmond, Virginia.  The band consists of Mike Cooley (lead vocals, guitar, banjo), Patterson Hood (lead vocals, guitar), Brad Morgan (drums), Jay Gonzalez (keys, guitar, accordion, backing vocals), and Matt Patton (bass guitar, backing vocals). The band's constant touring has developed a dedicated following.<ref name=grammymuseum />
What genre is Drive On? [SEP] Parkway Drive  Parkway Drive is an Australian metalcore band from Byron Bay, New South Wales, formed in 2003. As of 2018, Parkway Drive have released six studio albums, one EP, two DVDs, a split album and one book, titled "Ten Years of Parkway Drive". The band's latest four albums have reached the top 10 of the Australian ARIA Charts, with "Ire" reaching number 1 in October 2015, and "Reverence" in May 2018.  The band's line-up has been consistent since the addition of bassist Jia O'Connor in 2006, with Brett Versteeg having left in 2004 and Shaun Cash in 2006.
What genre is Mother? [SEP]  Mother is a single-player, role-playing video game set in a "slightly offbeat", late 20th-century United States as interpreted by Japanese author Shigesato Itoi. The game deliberately avoids traits of its Japanese role-playing game contemporaries: it is not set within the fantasy genre and only enters science fiction for its final sequence. The player fights in warehouses and laboratories instead of in standard dungeons. Instead of swords, assault weapons, and magic, the player uses baseball bats, toy guns, and psychic abilities. The game's protagonist, Ninten, is about 12 years old. Like the Dragon Quest series, Mother uses a random encounter combat system. The player explores the overworld from a top-down
What genre is Mother? [SEP]  The Mother and the Enemy is the fourth studio album by the Polish symphonic black metal group Lux Occulta. It expands upon the band's signature sound by incorporating influences from a variety of styles, including free jazz, trip hop, death metal, industrial music, electronica, and spoken word.
What genre is Mother? [SEP]  received a "Silver Hall of Fame" score from Famitsu magazine. Mother was praised for its similarities to the Dragon Quest series and its simultaneous parody of the genre's tropes; however, many considered its sequel EarthBound to be similar and a better overall implementation of Mother gameplay ideas, with the game's high difficulty level polarizing critics, along with balance issues. Jeremy Parish of 1UP.com wrote that Mother importantly generated interest in video game emulation and the historical preservation of unreleased games. The game was re-released in Japan on the single-cartridge compilation Mother 1+2 for the Game Boy Advance in 2003.
What genre is Mother? [SEP]  Mother, (マザー) officially known outside of Japan as EarthBound Beginnings, is a 1989 role-playing video game developed by Ape and published by Nintendo for the Famicom. It is the first entry in the Mother series. It is modeled on the gameplay of the Dragon Quest series, but is set in the late 20th-century United States, unlike its fantasy genre contemporaries. Mother follows the young Ninten as he uses his great-grandfather's studies on psychic powers to fight hostile, formerly inanimate objects and other enemies. The game uses random encounters to enter a menu-based, first-person perspective battle system. Writer and director Shigesato
What genre is Mother? [SEP]  The band's sound includes elements of "white funk", disco, krautrock and pub rock, and has seen them compared to the likes of Franz Ferdinand, Dr. Feelgood, The Violent Femmes, and Roxy Music, while Mother's songwriting and singing have been compared to Mark E. Smith and Jarvis Cocker.
What genre is Mother? [SEP] Mother Mother  Mother Mother is a Canadian indie rock band based in Quadra Island, British Columbia. The band consists of Ryan Guldemond on guitar and vocals, Molly Guldemond and Jasmin Parkin on vocals and keyboard, Ali Siadat on drums, and Mike Young on bass. Longtime bassist Jeremy Page left the band in 2016.  In 2005, they independently released their self-titled debut album under the band name Mother. They later changed their name to Mother Mother, and re-released the album on Last Gang Records in 2007. Retitled "Touch Up", the reissue also featured several new songs.  The band's second album, "O My Heart", was released on September 16, 2008; their third album, "Eureka", was released on March 15, 2011; their fourth album, "The Sticks", was released on September 18, 2012; and their fifth album, "Very Good Bad Thing" was released on November 4, 2014, with an American release of April 7, 2015, on Def Jam Recordings. Their sixth album, "No Culture", was released on February 10, 2017, with yet another Def Jam Recordings release in the United States.They also recently made a single for Christmas 2022  Their seventh album, "Dance and Cry," was released November 2, 2018. In late 2020, the band's music went viral on TikTok, causing a surge in streams. Their eighth studio album, "Inside", was released on June 25, 2021 on Warner Brothers Music. On January 28, 2022, the band released a deluxe version of "Inside", containing 7 new songs.
What genre is Mother? [SEP] Mother!  Mother! (stylized as mother!) is a 2017 American psychological horror film written and directed by Darren Aronofsky, and starring Jennifer Lawrence, Javier Bardem, Ed Harris, Michelle Pfeiffer, Domhnall Gleeson, Brian Gleeson, and Kristen Wiig. It follows a young woman whose tranquil life with her husband at their country home is disrupted by the arrival of a mysterious couple.  The film premiered on September 5, 2017, at the 74th Venice International Film Festival, where it was selected to compete for the Golden Lion. It was released in the United States on September 15, 2017, by Paramount Pictures, and grossed $44 million worldwide against its $30 million budget. Although it received generally positive reviews, its biblical allegories and depiction of violence sparked controversy.
What genre is Mother? [SEP] Mother Love Bone  Mother Love Bone was an American rock band that formed in Seattle, Washington in 1988. The band was active from 1988 to 1990. Frontman Andrew Wood's personality and lyrics helped to catapult the group to the top of the burgeoning late 1980s/early 1990s Seattle music scene. Wood died only days before the scheduled release of the band's debut album, "Apple", thus ending the group's hopes of success. The album was finally released a few months later.  As well as being influential to grunge, they are also considered early pioneers in the alternative metal genre.
What genre is Mother? [SEP] Mother Night  Mother Night is a novel by American author Kurt Vonnegut, first published in February 1962. The title of the book is taken from Goethe's "Faust" (and ultimately from the Egyptian Goddess Nuit, mother of Osiris, Horus, Isis, Set, and Nephthys, and her counterparts in European religions, such as Skaði).  The novel takes the form of the fictional memoirs of Howard W. Campbell Jr., an American, who moved to Germany in 1923 at age 11, and later became a well-known playwright and Nazi propagandist. The story of the novel is narrated (through the use of metafiction<ref name=":0" />) by Campbell himself, writing his memoirs while awaiting trial for war crimes in an Israeli prison. Howard W. Campbell also appears briefly in Vonnegut's later novel "Slaughterhouse-Five".
What genre is Mother? [SEP] Mother (Danzig song)  "Mother" is a song by American heavy metal band Danzig. It was originally released in August 1988 as the lead single from their debut album, "Danzig".  In 1993–1994, almost six years after its original release, a remixed version of the song titled "Mother '93" became a hit on radio and earned Buzz Bin rotation on MTV after a music video incorporating live footage was created to promote the band's new EP, "Thrall-Demonsweatlive". During this time the single was reissued by American Recordings, with the remix title updated to "Mother '94" on later versions.  "Mother" remains Danzig's highest charting single. It peaked at number 17 on the "Billboard" Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and 43 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. In the UK, the song peaked at number 62 on the singles chart.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]  "My Funny Friend and Me" is a song by English musician Sting. It was written by Sting and David Hartley for Walt Disney Pictures' 40th animated feature film The Emperor's New Groove. When the film began development in 1994 under the title Kingdom of the Sun, Sting was hired to write the film's songs. Released in November 2000, the track reached 24 on the American Billboard Adult Contemporary Singles chart, and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 73rd Academy Awards in 2001.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]  The soundtrack mixed acoustic rock and electronic music and included tracks by Gravenhurst, Talk Talk, Savath & Savalas and International Pony. Variety praised its quality. The musical landscape of this film is somewhat barren with very thin textures, often playing up the silence as a parallel to the quiet, isolated nature of main character Karl. Schipper specifically chose to use the music from the English band Gravenhurst because of their unique sound which is “a bit like Morriessey, sad, but still rocking.” Also used in the score for this film is the Lieder by Mahler, “ich bin der Welt abhanden gekommen” (I am lost to the world).
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]  My Friend (Mi socio) is a 1983 Bolivian drama film directed by Paolo Agazzi. It was entered into the 13th Moscow International Film Festival.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]  Me and My Friend is an Irish television sitcom that aired on RTÉ Television for one series from 1967 to 1968. Starring actresses and comedians Maureen Potter and Rosaleen Linehan, it was RTÉ's first home-grown sitcom.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]  Although music fills the cinematic void in a few scenes, the notions of naturalistic sounds are more of use; For example, the sounds of an empty train station or the sounds of moving cars in quiet garages. In addition, the absence of sound also is of use, emphasizing extreme loneliness of the characters feelings.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP] I Set My Friends on Fire  I Set My Friends on Fire (often abbreviated as ISMFOF) is an experimental rock band from Miami, Florida. The band was formed in 2007 by Matt Mehana and former member Nabil Moo. The group signed with Epitaph Records before releasing their debut album, "You Can't Spell Slaughter Without Laughter", in 2008. Their second album, "Astral Rejection", was originally supposed to be released on June 22, 2010, but the original recording was shelved by Epitaph, and later released on June 21, 2011. Shortly after, Chris Lent also left the band. Their third album, "Caterpillar Sex", was announced in 2013 but has since still never seen a release.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP] With a Little Help from My Friends  "With a Little Help from My Friends" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, from their 1967 album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band". It was written by John Lennon and Paul McCartney and sung by drummer Ringo Starr (as Sgt. Pepper band leader, Billy Shears), his lead vocal for the album. As the second track on the album, it segues from the applause of the title track.  A subsequent recording of the track by Joe Cocker became a success in 1968—topping the UK Singles Chart—and an anthem for the Woodstock era. In 1978, the Beatles' recording, paired with "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band", was reissued as a single, and peaked at number 63 in Britain and number 71 in the United States. Starr has regularly performed the song in concert as a solo artist. The song was ranked number 311 on "Rolling Stone"s list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP] You've Got a Friend in Me  "You've Got a Friend in Me" is a song by Randy Newman. Used as the theme song for the 1995 Disney/Pixar animated film "Toy Story", it has since become a major musical component for its sequels, "Toy Story 2" (1999), "Toy Story 3" (2010) and "Toy Story 4" (2019) as well as a musical leitmotif throughout the whole "Toy Story" franchise. The song was nominated for both the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song, but lost both to "Colors of the Wind" from Disney's "Pocahontas".  Like many other Disney theme songs, "You've Got a Friend in Me" has been covered numerous times. Cover versions featured in the first three "Toy Story" films include a duet with Newman and Lyle Lovett in "Toy Story; " a diagetic instance by Tom Hanks, a version by Robert Goulet and an instrumental by Tom Scott in "Toy Story 2", and a Spanish language version by the Gipsy Kings in "Toy Story 3".
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP]
What genre is Me and My Friend? [SEP] You've Got a Friend  "You've Got a Friend" is a 1971 song written by American singer, songwriter, and musician Carole King. It was first recorded by King and included on her second studio album, "Tapestry" (1971). Another well-known version is by James Taylor from his album "Mud Slide Slim and the Blue Horizon". His was released as a single in 1971, reaching number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and number four on the UK Singles Chart. The two versions were recorded simultaneously in 1971 with shared musicians.  "You've Got a Friend" won Grammy Awards both for Taylor (Best Male Pop Vocal Performance) and King (Song of the Year). Dozens of other artists have recorded the song over the years, including Dusty Springfield, Michael Jackson, Anne Murray, and Donny Hathaway.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP]  Unknown is an anthology of fantasy fiction short stories edited by Stanley Schmidt, the fifth of a number of anthologies drawing their contents from the classic magazine Unknown of the 1930s-1940s. It was first published in paperback by Baen Books in October 1988. The book collects nine tales by various authors, together with an introduction by the editor.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP]  The Unknown is the fourteenth book in the Animorphs series, written by K.A. Applegate. It is narrated by Cassie.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP]  The Unknown Known was screened in the main competition section at the 70th Venice International Film Festival, and premiered at the Telluride Film Festival on August 29, 2013.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP]  Unknown (also known as Unknown Worlds) was an American pulp fantasy fiction magazine, published from 1939 to 1943 by Street & Smith, and edited by John W. Campbell. Unknown was a companion to Street & Smith's science fiction pulp, Astounding Science Fiction, which was also edited by Campbell at the time; many authors and illustrators contributed to both magazines. The leading fantasy magazine in the 1930s was Weird Tales, which focused on shock and horror. Campbell wanted to publish a fantasy magazine with more finesse and humor than Weird Tales, and put his plans into action when Eric Frank Russell sent him the manuscript of his novel Sinister Barrier, about aliens who own the human race. Unknowns first issue appeared
What genre is Unknown? [SEP]  Unknown was screened out of competition at the 61st Berlin International Film Festival. It was released in the United States on 18 February 2011.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP] Unknown Mortal Orchestra  Unknown Mortal Orchestra (UMO) is a New Zealand psychedelic rock band formed in Auckland, primarily composed of singer, guitarist, and songwriter Ruban Nielson, and bassist Jake Portrait. The band is currently based in Portland, Oregon, United States. Nielson started the band in 2010. The band's first album was released in 2011 on Fat Possum Records; four subsequent studio albums have been released on Jagjaguwar, the most recent being "IC-01 Hanoi" (2018).
What genre is Unknown? [SEP] Unknown Pleasures  Unknown Pleasures is the debut studio album by English rock band Joy Division, released on 15 June 1979 by Factory Records. The album was recorded and mixed over three successive weekends at Stockport's Strawberry Studios in April 1979, with producer Martin Hannett contributing a number of unconventional recording techniques to the group's sound. The cover artwork was designed by artist Peter Saville, using a data plot of signals from a radio pulsar. It is the only Joy Division album released during lead singer Ian Curtis's lifetime.  Factory Records did not release any singles from "Unknown Pleasures", and the album did not chart despite the relative success of the group's non-album debut single "Transmission". It has since received sustained critical acclaim as an influential post-punk album, and has been named as one of the best albums of all time by publications such as "NME", AllMusic, "Select", "Rolling Stone", and "Spin".
What genre is Unknown? [SEP] Pop Unknown  Pop Unknown is an American rock band from Austin, Texas formed in 1997  by ex members of Mineral (Gabe Wiley) and Tim Lasater of "Feed Lucy". They released their debut EP "Summer Season Kills"  in 1999 and followed it with their first full-length album "If Arsenic Fails, Try Algebra" later that year both on Deep Elm Records. Between 1997 - 2002, Pop Unknown toured the US over a dozen times and found a welcome audience in Europe, playing shows in Germany, Italy, France, Spain, Austria, Switzerland, Sweden, Belgium, the UK among others. In 2002 they released a second album titled "The August Division" on now defunct Sessions Records. In 2003 the 4 of the members of Pop Unknown founded a side project called 'Kissing Chaos' which became the primary band and Pop Unknown was ended .  The four members of Pop Unknown that made up the band Kissing Chaos, (Joel, Gabriel, Matt and Erick) played many shows and toured the US> After releasing an EP the band called it quits.  Singer Tim Lasater went on to form The Cutaway in the US. After releasing their debut EP 'Ready For The Fall', The Cutaway – not to be confused with the UK band of the same name – toured extensively in the Texas region and the US, but called it quits after drummer Ed Davis left to play with Juliette Lewis and the Licks.
What genre is Unknown? [SEP] Into the Unknown (song)  "Into the Unknown" is a song recorded by American actress and singer-songwriter Idina Menzel and Norwegian singer-songwriter Aurora from the 2019 Disney film "Frozen II", with music and lyrics composed by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez. The song received Academy Award, Critics' Choice Movie Award, Golden Globe Award and Satellite Award nominations for Best Original Song, but lost each award to "(I'm Gonna) Love Me Again" from "Rocketman".
What genre is Unknown? [SEP] The Unknown Soldier (novel)  The Unknown Soldier (, ) or Unknown Soldiers is a war novel by Finnish author Väinö Linna, considered his magnum opus. Published in 1954, "The Unknown Soldier" chronicles the Continuation War between Finland and the Soviet Union during 1941–1944 from the viewpoint of ordinary Finnish soldiers. In 2000, the manuscript version of the novel was published with the title ("the war novel") and in 2015, the latest English translation as "Unknown Soldiers". A fictional account based closely on Linna's own experiences during the war, the novel presented a more realistic outlook on the formerly romanticized image of a noble and obedient Finnish soldier. Linna gave his characters independent and critical thoughts, and presented them with human feelings, such as fear and rebellion.  Although published to mixed reviews, "The Unknown Soldier" quickly became one of the best-selling books in Finland and is considered both a classic in Finnish literature and a part of the national legacy.<ref name=":7" /> The novel was well received by frontline veterans; it shot Linna to literary fame and has been described as creating a shift in the collective memory of the war. It has sold nearly 800,000 units, been translated into 20 different languages and adapted into three films with the latest one released in 2017.
What genre is Reach? [SEP]  Reach is a studio album by German jazz pianist Jacky Terrasson released in 1995 by Blue Note label. This is his second album for Blue Note. The album is a collection of five originals written by Terrasson and three jazz standards.
What genre is Reach? [SEP]  "The Reach" is a short story by American writer Stephen King. First published in Yankee in 1981 under the title "Do the Dead Sing?", it was later collected in King's 1985 collection Skeleton Crew.
What genre is Reach? [SEP]  Reached is a 2012 young adult dystopian novel by Allyson Braithwaite Condie and is the final novel in the Matched Trilogy, preceded by Matched and Crossed. The novel was published on November 13, 2012 by Dutton Juvenile and was set to have a first printing of 500,000 copies. The novel is told from the viewpoints of Cassia, Ky, and Xander, a point that Condie insisted on. The plot follows the experiences of the three protagonists with the rising of the rebellion against the Society, the race to find the cure against a plague of mysterious origin, and discovering the real intentions of the Rising. Critical reception of the novel was positive and it reached No. 6 on USA Today's Best Selling Books list in 2012.
What genre is Reach? [SEP]  In May 2021, it was announced that Reach would make an alliance with Netflix for the musicalization of the movie Blue Miracle. The songs on the album are used to set the film, in addition to other songs by artists of Latin descent such as Gawvi and Whatuprg.
What genre is Reach? [SEP]  Reach is the only album by American country music artist Meredith Edwards. It was released in 2001 by Mercury Nashville and peaked at No. 24 on the Billboard Top Country Albums chart. The album includes the singles "A Rose Is a Rose" and "The Bird Song." Keith Stegall produced the album, except for "Ready to Fall" (featured on the On the Line soundtrack and in its theatrical trailer) and "This Is the Heartache" (produced by Richard Marx), and "The Bird Song", "You Get to Me", "But I Can't Let You Go", and "You" (produced by Robin Wiley).
What genre is Reach? [SEP] When You Reach Me  When You Reach Me is a Newbery Medal-winning science fiction and mystery novel by Rebecca Stead, published in 2009. It takes place on the Upper West Side of New York during 1978 and 1979 and follows a sixth-grade girl named Miranda Sinclair. After Miranda finds a strange note, which is unsigned and addressed only to "M," in her school library book, a mystery is set into motion—one which Miranda ultimately must face alone. At the same time, Miranda juggles school, relationships with her peers, and helping her mom prepare to be on the game show "The $20,000 Pyramid". Important characters in the story include Miranda's mother; Richard, her mom's good-natured boyfriend; Sal, Miranda's childhood best friend; and a homeless man who lives on Miranda's block and is referred to only as "the laughing man." Central themes in the novel include independence, redemption, and friendship.  When You Reach Me was inspired by a story Stead read about a man suffering from amnesia, by parts of her childhood, and by her favorite book as a kid, A Wrinkle in Time. After completing much of the novel, Stead gave the draft to her editor, Wendy Lamb. Together, they expanded on the initial concepts and published "When You Reach Me" on July 14, 2009, under Wendy Lamb Books, an imprint of Random House. The book was well received by critics, who praised its realistic setting and the author's deft handling of small details. The novel reached the best-seller lists of The New York Times, Los Angeles Times and USA Today. In addition to receiving the 2010 Newbery Medal, "When You Reach Me" won several Best Book of the Year awards.
What genre is Reach? [SEP] Reach Out I'll Be There  "Reach Out I'll Be There" (also formatted as "Reach Out (I'll Be There)") is a song recorded by the Four Tops from their fourth studio album "Reach Out" (1967). Written and produced by Motown's main production team, Holland–Dozier–Holland, the song is one of the most widely-known Motown hits of the 1960s and is today considered the Four Tops' signature song.  It was the number one song on the Rhythm & Blues chart for two weeks and on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for two weeks, in October 15–22, 1966. The track also reached number one in the UK Singles Chart, becoming Motown's second UK chart-topper after The Supremes' 1964 release "Baby Love". It reached number one on October 27, 1966, and stayed there for three weeks.  "Rolling Stone" later ranked “Reach Out” number 206 on its list of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". "Billboard" ranked the record as the number four song for 1966.
What genre is Reach? [SEP] Southern Reach Trilogy  The Southern Reach Trilogy is a series of novels by the American author Jeff VanderMeer first published in 2014—"Annihilation", "Authority", and "Acceptance". The trilogy takes its name from the secret agency that is central to the plot. In 2013, Paramount Pictures bought the movie rights for the series, and a film adaptation of "Annihilation" was made with Alex Garland as writer-director. The film was released in 2018.
What genre is Reach? [SEP] Annihilation (VanderMeer novel)  Annihilation is a 2014 novel by Jeff VanderMeer. It is the first in a series of three books called the Southern Reach Trilogy. The book describes a team of four women (a biologist, an anthropologist, a psychologist, and a surveyor) who set out into an area known as Area X. The area is abandoned and cut off from the rest of civilization. They are the 12th expedition; the previous expeditions have been fraught with disappearances, suicides, aggressive cancers, and mental trauma. The novel won the 2014 Nebula Award for Best Novel and the 2014 Shirley Jackson Award for best novel.  A film based on the novel, starring Natalie Portman, was released by Paramount Pictures on February 23, 2018.
What genre is Reach? [SEP] Halo: Reach  Halo: Reach is a 2010 first-person shooter video game developed by Bungie and published by Microsoft Game Studios, originally for the Xbox 360. The fifth installment in the "Halo" series and a direct prequel to "", "Reach" was released worldwide in September 2010. The game takes place in the year 2552, where humanity is locked in a war with the alien Covenant. Players control Noble Six, a member of an elite supersoldier squad, when the human world known as Reach falls under Covenant attack.  After releasing "Halo 3" in 2007, Bungie split into teams to develop two different games—what would become "" and "Reach". The developers decided to create a prequel to the original "Halo" game trilogy, freeing themselves from the obligation of addressing old story threads. As the game would take place on a human world doomed to be destroyed, they focused on making the environment a character unto itself. Longtime "Halo" composers Martin O'Donnell and Michael Salvatori returned to compose "Reach"s music, aiming for a more somber sound to match the story.  "Reach" was announced at E3 2009 in Los Angeles, and the first in-engine trailer was shown at the 2009 Spike Video Game Awards. Players who purchased "ODST" were eligible to participate in a "Reach" multiplayer beta in May 2010; the beta allowed Bungie to gain player feedback for fixing bugs and making gameplay tweaks before shipping the final version. Microsoft gave "Reach" its biggest game marketing budget yet and created award-winning live-action commercials, action figures, and interactive media to promote the game.  The game grossed US$200 million on its launch day, setting a new record for the franchise. "Reach" sold well in most territories, moving more than three million units its first month in North America. Critical reception was positive; reviewers from publications such as "GamePro", IGN, and "Official Xbox Magazine" called it the best "Halo" title yet. Critics generally praised the game's graphics and sound, but the plot and characters were less positively received. "Reach" was Bungie's final "Halo" game; subsequent games have been overseen by Microsoft subsidiary 343 Industries. The game was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One as part of the "" in December 2019.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP] Attribution
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]  Elias Childe (1778–1849) was a British landscape painter. He was a prolific artist, working both in oils and watercolours.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]  Childe exhibited upwards of 500 pictures at the exhibitions of the Society of British Artists, the Royal Academy, and the British Institution. His pictures were popular, and sold well. He particularly excelled in moonlight effects, and an example of that style went to the National Gallery of British Art at South Kensington.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]  of banjo-guitar and the lyrics, optimistic, are in the true French music tradition of years 2000. At the beginning of 2014, in order to record and to promote his 2nd LP; with 11 titles, he signed up on My Major Company, the crowdfunding site. If he is still composing musics, he makes sure of the support of many writers such as Sabine Cardinal, Iza Loris, Daria de Martynoff, Jacques Roure, Maurice Vallet, Christian Vié or François Welgryn. For this new LP, the pop with electro strains music had been largely influenced by Anglo-Saxon bands, such as Muse or Coldplay, that Elias had been listening to.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]  He was elder brother to the artist James Warren Childe and Henry Langdon Childe who developed the magic lantern. He first exhibited in 1798 at the Royal Academy, when he was living at 29 Compton Street, Soho, with his brother James. He concentrated on landscape, a field in which he was a success. In 1825 he was elected a fellow of the Society of British Artists. Childe exhibited for the last time in 1848, and died in 1849.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP] Elias Childe  Elias Childe (1778–1849) was a British landscape painter. He was a prolific artist, working both in oils and watercolours.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP] Henry Langdon Childe  Henry Langdon Childe (1781–1874) was an English showman, known as a developer of the magic lantern and dissolving views, a precursor of the dissolve in cinematic technique. While the priority question on the technical innovations Childe used is still debated, he established the use of double and triple lanterns for special theatrical effects, to the extent that the equipment involved became generally available through suppliers to other professionals. By the 1840s the "dissolving view", rooted in Gothic horror, had become a staple of illustrated talks with restrained animations.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP] James Warren Childe  James Warren Childe (1780 – 19 September 1862) was an English miniature painter.
What genre is Elias Childe? [SEP]
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]  André Ducharme (born July 23, 1962) is a Québécois author, comedian and humorist. He was part of the Rock et Belles Oreilles group (RBO) from 1981 to 1995. He was credited as André G. Ducharme in RBO; "G. Ducharme" has the same sound in French as "J'ai du charme," which means "I have charm" or "I am charming."
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]  caught the attentions of the Nazis during the Occupation, and Duchesne became a collaborator, actively participating in the torture of at least one member of the French Resistance." Not surprisingly, the review notes Bob le flambeur was Duchesne's first film since the war and he only appeared in one more thereafter. Film director Jean-Pierre Melville, ironically himself a Jewish member of the French Resistance during the war, recruited Duchesne for Bob le flambeur. According to one account, the actor had been prohibited from working by the postwar purge ("epuration") of collaborators. "Duchesne robbed a bank of 800 million francs--the same sum Bob tries to steal [in the film] in Deauville--then cooled his heels in prison writing adventure novels. When Melville tracked him down, he was selling scrap metal in Saint-Ouen."
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]  Christiane Duchesne (born August 12, 1949) is a Quebec researcher, educator, illustrator, translator and writer. She was born in Montreal and was educated at the Collège Jésus-Marie d'Outremont, at the Collège Jean-de-Brébeuf and at the Université de Montréal where she studied industrial design. From 1990 to 1993, she was a researcher for several audio-visual production companies. She also was editor in chief for the magazine Décormag, an associate editor for the Courte Échelle publishing company and director of the Kid Quid collection of the  publishing house. Duchesne has served on the board of directors for the Salon du livre de Montréal. She wrote a number of scripts for Radio Canada, including an adaptation of Alice au pays des merveilles which received the Slovak Prix Court Métrage in 1998. In 1996, Duchesne was one of the finalists for the International Board on Books for Young People's Hans Christian Andersen Award for her body of work.
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]  André Duchesne (sometimes spelled Du Chesne, Latinized Andreas Chesneus, Andreas Quercetanus, or Andreas Querneus; May 1584 – May 30, 1640) was a French geographer and historian, generally styled the father of French history. Duchesne was born in L'Île-Bouchard. He was educated at Loudun and afterwards at Paris. From his earliest years he devoted himself to historical and geographical research, and his first work, Egregiarum seu selectarum lectionum et antiquitatum liber, published in his eighteenth year, displayed great erudition. He enjoyed the patronage of Cardinal Richelieu, a native of the same district with himself, through whose influence he was appointed historiographer and geographer to the king. He died in Paris in 1640, in consequence of having been run over by a carriage when on his way from the city to his country house at Verrières.
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]  Jean-Pierre Andrevon (born 19 September 1937 in Bourgoin-Jallieu, Isère) is a French science fiction author, as well as a painter and singer. He has used the pseudonym Alphonse Brutsche for novels published under the Fleuve Noir label. In addition to his regular authorship, he has written scenarios for several prominent comics artists, among others Georges Pichard and Caza, resulting in a body of comic book work. He has also edited a number of anthologies of French science fiction.
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP] Duchesne  Duchesne is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP] Les 4 Guitaristes de l'Apocalypso-Bar  Les 4 Guitaristes de l'Apocalypso-Bar, also known as Les Quatre Guitaristes de l'Apocalypso-Bar () was an electric guitar quartet founded by André Duchesne in Montreal, Quebec, Canada in 1986. It was one of the first electric guitar quartets and was billed as a band from post-apocalypse Canada "inspired by the ghost of Jimi Hendrix".<ref name=Les4-Couture/>  Les 4 Guitaristes de l'Apocalypso-Bar performed for four years in Canada, the United States and Europe. They released two albums, in 1987 and 1989.
What genre is André Duchesne? [SEP]
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP]  Sabotage at Sea is a 1942 British, black-and-white, drama, mystery, war film, directed by Leslie S. Hiscott and starring Jane Carr, Margaretta Scott, David Hutcheson and Ronald Shiner as Ernie the Cook. It was produced by British National Films and Shaftesbury Films. It has the overall format of a whodunnit but with a clear theme of protecting military secrets during the Second World War.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP]  Sabotage is loosely based on the classic Agatha Christie novel And Then There Were None (1939). Filming started on October 12, 2012 and was completed by December 13, 2012. While the initially released poster for the film gave a release date of April 11, it was released on March 28, 2014.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP]  Sabotage is a 1939 American action film directed by Harold Young and written by Lionel Houser and Alice Altschuler. The film stars Arleen Whelan, Gordon Oliver, Charley Grapewin, Lucien Littlefield, Paul Guilfoyle and J. M. Kerrigan. The film was released on October 13, 1939, by Republic Pictures.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP]  Books
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP]  Sabotage Squad is a 1942 American action film directed by Lew Landers and written by Bernice Petkere, Wallace Sullivan and David Silverstein. The film stars Bruce Bennett, Kay Harris, Edward Norris, Sidney Blackmer, Don Beddoe and John Tyrrell. The film was released on August 27, 1942, by Columbia Pictures.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP] Operation Sabotage  Operation Sabotage is a text adventure game by Ray Sato for the TRS-80 and published by "SoftSide Magazine" in 1982. It was ported by Rich Bouchard to the Atari 8-bit family and subsequently translated for Apple II by Ron Shaker. The game was republished in "The Best of SoftSide" (1983), which also included the program on an accompanying 5¼-inch floppy disk.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP] Norwegian heavy water sabotage  The Norwegian heavy water sabotage (; ) was a series of Allied-led efforts to halt German heavy water production via hydroelectric plants in Nazi Germany-occupied Norway during World War II, involving both Norwegian commandos and Allied bombing raids. During the war, the Allies sought to inhibit the German development of nuclear weapons with the removal of heavy water and the destruction of heavy-water production plants. The Norwegian heavy water sabotage was aimed at the 60 MW Vemork power station at the Rjukan waterfall in Telemark.  The hydroelectric power plant at Vemork was built in 1934. It was the world's first site to mass-produce heavy water (as a byproduct of nitrogen fixing), with a capacity of 12 tonnes per year. Before the German invasion of Norway on 9 April 1940, the French Deuxième Bureau removed of heavy water from the Vemork plant in then-neutral Norway.  The plant's managing director agreed to lend France the heavy water for the duration of the war. The French transported it secretly to Oslo, then to Perth, Scotland, and then to France. The plant was still capable of producing heavy water, however, and the Allies were concerned that the Germans would use the facility to produce more heavy water.  Between 1940 and 1944, a series of sabotage actions by the Norwegian resistance movement and Allied bombing ensured the destruction of the plant and the loss of its heavy water. These operations — code-named Grouse, Freshman, and Gunnerside — knocked the plant out of production in early 1943.  In Operation Grouse, the British Special Operations Executive (SOE) successfully placed an advance team of four Norwegians on the Hardanger Plateau above the plant in October 1942. The unsuccessful Operation Freshman was mounted the following month by British paratroopers, who were to rendezvous with the Operation Grouse Norwegians and proceed to Vemork. This attempt failed when the military gliders (and one of their tugs, a Handley Page Halifax) crashed short of their destination. Except for the crew of one Halifax bomber, all the participants were killed in the crashes or captured, interrogated and executed by the Gestapo.  In February 1943, a team of SOE-trained Norwegian commandos destroyed the production facility in Operation Gunnerside; this was followed by Allied bombing raids. The Germans ceased operations, and attempted to move the remaining heavy water to Germany. Norwegian resistance forces then sank the ferry carrying the heavy water, the , on Lake Tinn.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP] Operation Pastorius  Operation Pastorius was a failed German intelligence plan for sabotage inside the United States during World War II. The operation was staged in June, 1942 and was to be directed against strategic American economic targets. The operation was named by Admiral Wilhelm Canaris, chief of the German "Abwehr", for Francis Daniel Pastorius, the organizer of the first organized settlement of Germans in America. Fourteen other people would be charged with aiding those in charge of the operation.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP] Sabotage  Sabotage is a deliberate action aimed at weakening a polity, effort, or organization through subversion, obstruction, disruption, or destruction. One who engages in sabotage is a "saboteur". Saboteurs typically try to conceal their identities because of the consequences of their actions and to avoid invoking legal and organizational requirements for addressing sabotage.
What genre is Operation Sabotage? [SEP] Operation Mongoose  The Cuban Project, also known as Operation Mongoose, was an extensive campaign of terrorist attacks against civilians and covert operations carried out by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency in Cuba. It was officially authorized on November 30, 1961 by U.S. President John F. Kennedy. The name Operation Mongoose had been agreed at a prior White House meeting on November 4, 1961. The operation was run out of JM/WAVE, a major secret United States covert operations and intelligence gathering station established a year earlier in Miami, Florida. It was led by United States Air Force General Edward Lansdale on the military side and William King Harvey at the CIA and went into effect after the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion.  Operation Mongoose was a secret program against Cuba aimed at removing the Communists from power, which was a prime focus of the Kennedy administration. A document from the United States Department of State confirms that the project aimed to "help Cuba overthrow the Communist regime", including its leader Fidel Castro, and it aimed "for a revolt which can take place in Cuba by October 1962". U.S. policymakers also wanted to see "a new government with which the United States can live in peace".
What genre is The Gap? [SEP]  It is published bi-monthly, with a current print run of 40,000 copies. The Gap focuses on independent music, film, art, games, literature, politics and design.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP]  The Gap Cycle is a series of science fiction novels by Stephen R. Donaldson, more usually known for his works of epic fantasy. The series was originally published between 1991 and 1996 by Bantam Books and was reprinted by Gollancz in 2008 in the UK. Here, Donaldson gave a loose retelling of Wagner's Ring cycle.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP]  The Gap was founded in 1997 by Manuel Fronhofer, as a black and white fanzine that was copied in a Vienna University of Economics and Business basement. The first issue had a run of a thousand copies, and featured the band Blur on the cover. The Gap won FM4's "Best Magazine or Blog of the Year" in 2015 and 2016, and journalist Thomas Weber calls The Gap "more milieu than magazine." The publisher is Monopol Media. In 2017, Yasmin Vihaus took over the editorial office of Amira Ben Saoud; the position was previously held by Stefan Niederwieser. Some of the magazines prominent editors are Thomas Edlinger, Andreas Klinger, Christian Köllerer, Philipp L'Heritier, Teresa Reiter, Werner Reiter, Heide Schmidt, Katharina Seidler, Peter Stuiber, Jonas Vogt, Jürgen Wallner and Barbara Zeman.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP]  The Gap is an Austrian free culture and music magazine.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP]  "The Gap" is a song by the British pop group Thompson Twins. It was the title track from the group's 1984 album Into the Gap, and was also released as a single in certain countries though not in the group's native UK. The single peaked at #69 in the U.S., spending six weeks on the US Billboard 100. It also charted in Germany where it peaked at #62. There was no promotional music video for this single. The B-sides are a "megamix" of various Thompson Twins songs titled "Out Of The Gap", and the previous single, "Sister Of Mercy" (LP Version).
What genre is The Gap? [SEP] The Gap Band  The Gap Band was an American R&B and funk band that rose to fame during the 1970s and 1980s. The band consisted of three brothers: Charlie, Ronnie, and Robert Wilson, along with other members; it was named after streets (Greenwood, Archer, and Pine) in the historic Greenwood neighborhood in the brothers' hometown of Tulsa, Oklahoma.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP] Del Water Gap  Samuel Holden Jaffe, known professionally as Del Water Gap, is an American musician and record producer based in Brooklyn, New York.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP] Cumberland Gap (folk song)  "Cumberland Gap" is an Appalachian folk song that likely dates to the latter half of the 19th century and was first recorded in 1924. The song is typically played on banjo or fiddle, and well-known versions of the song include instrumental versions as well as versions with lyrics. A version of the song appeared in the 1934 book, "American Ballads and Folk Songs", by folk song collector John Lomax. Woody Guthrie recorded a version of the song at his Folkways sessions in the mid-1940s, and the song saw a resurgence in popularity with the rise of bluegrass and the American folk music revival in the 1950s.  The song's title refers to the Cumberland Gap, a mountain pass in the Appalachian Mountains at the juncture of the states of Tennessee, Virginia, and Kentucky. The gap was used in the latter half of the 18th century by westward-bound migrants travelling from the original 13 American colonies to the Trans-Appalachian frontier. During the U.S. Civil War (1861–1865), Union and Confederate armies engaged in a year-long back-and-forth struggle for control of the gap.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP] Pine Gap (TV series)  Pine Gap is an Australian television series that was released on Netflix and broadcast on ABC in 2018. The six-part series is written and created by Greg Haddrick and Felicity Packard with Mat King directing all six episodes. The series is produced by Screentime.
What genre is The Gap? [SEP] Charlie Wilson (singer)  Charles Kent Wilson (born January 29, 1953), also known as Uncle Charlie, is an American singer, musician, songwriter, and the former lead vocalist of the Gap Band. As a solo artist Wilson has been nominated for 13 Grammy awards and 11 NAACP Image Awards (including two wins), received a 2009 Soul Train Icon Award, and was a recipient of a BMI Icon Award in 2005. In 2009 and 2020, he was named "Billboard" magazine's No. 1 Adult R&B Artist, and his song "There Goes My Baby" was named the No. 1 Urban Adult Song for 2009 in "Billboard" Magazine.  On June 30, 2013, BET honored Wilson with a Lifetime Achievement Award that was presented to him by Justin Timberlake. The BET tribute performances included renditions of Wilson's songs performed by India Arie ("There Goes My Baby"), Jamie Foxx ("Yearning for Your Love"), and Stevie Wonder ("Burn Rubber") but it was not until Wilson himself took to the stage at the request of Timberlake to perform his Grammy-nominated song "You Are" and then transition into a medley of hit songs performing alongside Timberlake and surprise guests Snoop Dogg and Pharrell Williams that Wilson stole the show during the youth-oriented program.  Wilson is the national spokesman of the Prostate Cancer Foundation where there is a Creativity Award in his name which donates hundreds of thousands of dollars a year to researchers across the country for the development of creative science that conforms to PCF funding principles but is short-term and designed to allow development of otherwise unfunded ideas.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP]  Dark Matter is an indie metroidvania/survival horror video game developed by Interwave Studios and published by Iceberg Interactive for the Windows, Linux and macOS in 2013.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP]  Dark Matter is a speculative fiction novel from Michelle Paver. Part horror, part ghost story, it was published in the UK on October 21, 2010.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP]  Dark•Matter is a science fiction/conspiracy theory campaign setting that was originally published in 1999 by Wizards of the Coast as the second campaign setting for the Alternity role-playing game. It was written by Wolfgang Baur and Monte Cook. It was later converted to d20 Modern rules and published as a stand-alone book in 2006.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP]  Dark Matter is the title of a 1990 science fiction novel by Garfield Reeves-Stevens. It involves mystery, horror, and physics, and was first published by Doubleday in September 1990.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP]  Dark Matter is a 2007 American drama film and the first feature film by opera director Chen Shi-zheng, starring Liu Ye, Aidan Quinn and Meryl Streep. Liu Ye plays a young scientist whose rising star must confront the dark forces of politics, ego, and cultural insensitivity. The film is loosely based on the University of Iowa shooting. The film premiered at the 2007 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the Alfred P. Sloan Prize.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP] Dark Matter (Crouch novel)  Dark Matter is a science fiction thriller novel by American writer Blake Crouch, first published in the United States in July 2016 by the Crown Publishing Group. The story is about a physicist who is kidnapped and sent to a parallel universe in which another version of his life unfolds because of a different choice he made fifteen years previously. The book draws on the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics which posits that every possible outcome of every event creates a new universe or world that runs parallel to our own.<ref name=Daniels/><ref name=Adams/>  "Dark Matter" received mixed reviews from critics, and was nominated for the 2016 World Technology Awards.<ref name=WTA/> The book was translated into Dutch by Corry van Bree as "Dark Matter" and published by Karakter in August 2016.<ref name=isfdb-nl/> It was also translated into German by Klaus Berr as "Dark Matter: Der Zeitenläufer" and published by Goldmann in March 2017.<ref name=isfdb-de/>
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP] Dark Matter (upcoming TV series)  Dark Matter is an upcoming science fiction television series based on the novel of the same name by Blake Crouch.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP] Dark Matter (The Word Alive album)  Dark Matter is the fourth studio album by American metalcore band The Word Alive. It was released on March 18, 2016 through Fearless Records and was produced by Matt Good and Scott Stevens. The album's lead single, "Trapped", was released on January 8. This is the final album to feature members Daniel Shapiro and Luke Holland.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP] Dark Matter (2015 TV series)  Dark Matter is a science fiction series started in 2015 that was developed by Prodigy Pictures in association with the Space channel and the Syfy channel. The concept was created by Joseph Mallozzi and Paul Mullie while they were working on the "Stargate" franchise, and was originally published as a comic book series in 2012.  An order for 13 episodes was placed for the first season of the series, which premiered on June 12, 2015, on both Space and Syfy. On September 5, 2015, the series was renewed for a second season. "Dark Matter" was renewed for a third season in September 2016, which premiered on June 9, 2017. On September 1, 2017, Syfy canceled the series.
What genre is Dark Matter? [SEP] Les Friction  Les Friction is an independent music group led by Helmut Vonlichten, Nihl Finch aka Evan Frankfort, and a singer named Paint. Helmut had previously collaborated with his brother Franz Vonlichten in their cinematic music project E.S. Posthumus until Franz's death in May 2010. Les Friction was announced in November 2011, and their self-titled debut album was released the following January.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaotic, part of the Women of the Otherworld series, is a novella written by Kelley Armstrong. It was published in an anthology of supernatural-themed novellas, called "Dates From Hell." This novella takes place between Haunted and Broken in the Women of the Otherworld series.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaotic is an animated science fantasy television series produced by 4Kids Entertainment. It was animated by Canadian studio Bardel Entertainment for season 1 and South Korean studio Dong Woo Animation for season 2 and 3. It is based on the Danish trading card game of the same name. Much of the plot is based on the original storyline of the Danish trading card game.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaos Chaos is a 2018 studio album by the American indie-pop band Chaos Chaos. It is the third album the band has released since changing their name from Smoosh in 2012, and their first full-length since Withershins in 2010.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaos Is Me is the debut studio album by American screamo band Orchid. It was released on June 21, 1999, through Ebullition Records. Chaos Is Me heralded the change of the guard for extreme music, and brought both Amherst, Massachusetts and Hampshire College to the forefront of the scene's attention. The album was released on black, clear yellow, green, and red vinyl in 1999, and was also included on a 2002 compilation CD that included its follow-up Dance Tonight! Revolution Tomorrow!. It has since been reissued multiple times, on magenta vinyl in 2013, lavender vinyl in 2015, yellow vinyl in 2018, and received a 20th anniversary reissue in 2019.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaotica is a commercial fractal art editor and renderer extending flam3 and Apophysis's functionality. There is also a free version with limited render resolution and animation length.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP] Chaotic (TV series)  Chaotic is an animated science fantasy television series produced by 4Kids Entertainment. It was animated by Canadian studio Bardel Entertainment for season 1 and South Korean studio Dong Woo Animation for season 2 and 3. It is based on the Danish trading card game of the same name. Much of the plot is based on the original storyline of the Danish trading card game.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP] List of jazz genres  This is a list of subgenres of jazz music.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP] Mathcore  Mathcore is a subgenre of hardcore punk and metalcore influenced by post-hardcore, extreme metal and math rock that developed during the 1990s. Bands in the genre emphasize complex and fluctuant rhythms through the use of irregular time signatures, polymeters, syncopations and tempo changes. Early mathcore lyrics were addressed from a realistic worldview and with a pessimistic, defiant, resentful or sarcastic point of view.  In the 1990s, the hardcore punk scene started to embrace extreme metal openly. It also started to become highly ideological, with most of the popular bands being part of subcultures. This led to bands such as Converge, Botch, Coalesce and The Dillinger Escape Plan to establish the genre.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP] Zoids: Chaotic Century  Zoids: Chaotic Century, simply titled in Japan, is the first of five anime series based on the Zoids range of mecha model kits produced by TOMY. It is loosely adapted from the manga series "Kiiju Shinseiki Zoido", which was created by Michiro Ueyama and published in "CoroCoro Comic". The series was animated by Xebec, and aired from September 4, 1999, to December 23, 2000, on TBS and Network. Although the first series to be produced for the franchise in Japan, "Chaotic Century" was the second series to be dubbed and aired in Western nations, following "". In August 2013, a Blu-ray box set of the series was released in Japan, it optionally came with a limited edition Blade Liger.
What genre is Chaotic? [SEP]
What genre is Flare? [SEP]  In its first year, there were performances by the Pakistani band Jal and several other bands like Antariksh based on popular band Pink Floyd. In its second year, Flare hosted performances by Agnee, Highway 61, and Jaipur Beats along with DJ Suketu.
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Ablaze- National-level group dance competition ; AtMoshSphere- Battle of bands ; Amethyst- National-level model hunt ; Melodia- Music competition ; Emotions- Drama competition ; Zest- Solo and duet dance competition ; Kavyanjali- Poetry competition ; Literature events ; Cooking events ; Fine arts events ; Flea market ; Guest lectures ; Special performances ; Informals
What genre is Flare? [SEP]  Flare Acoustic Arts League — A.K.A. Flare (band) — were an experimental pop band formed by guitarist Damian Costilla and singer LD Beghtol in New York in 1996 who made intense, darkly romantic, atmospheric songs deeply influenced by their love of The Smiths, The Magnetic Fields (with whom beghtol sometimes collaborated), Love, various 4AD bands and The Velvet Underground. Flare soon became a small chamber ensemble, augmenting Costilla's guitar work with other instrumentalists for recording/live shows. Costilla left Flare shortly after the release of their debut CD, Bottom (Tamper Evident, 1997). Beghtol continued to record and perform under the Flare moniker until 2001, when he renamed
What genre is Flare? [SEP]  Flare is a science fiction novel by American writers Roger Zelazny and Thomas Thurston Thomas, published in 1992. Flare describes the world as it may be in 2081, and the effects a future inter-planetary civilization would suffer if a solar flare occurred after almost 100 years without any solar activity. The book takes a scientific approach to the idea, including almost no tangible story line. It is broken into short segments which describe different people in various places suffering from the effects of the solar flare.
What genre is Flare? [SEP]  Flare (フレア) is a 2014 French-Japanese film directed by Yūkichi Ōtsuka. Japanese actress, Mayuko Fukuda played the lead role. It was released on April 26, 2014.
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Bell-bottoms  Bell-bottoms (or flares) are a style of trousers that become wider from the knees downward, forming a bell-like shape of the trouser leg. These are similar to flared jeans.
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Flare Acoustic Arts League  Flare Acoustic Arts League — A.K.A. Flare (band) — were an experimental pop band formed by guitarist Damian Costilla and singer LD Beghtol in New York in 1996 who made intense, darkly romantic, atmospheric songs deeply influenced by their love of The Smiths, The Magnetic Fields (with whom beghtol sometimes collaborated), Love, various 4AD bands and The Velvet Underground. Flare soon became a small chamber ensemble, augmenting Costilla's guitar work with other instrumentalists for recording/live shows. Costilla left Flare shortly after the release of their debut CD, "Bottom" (Tamper Evident, 1997). Beghtol continued to record and perform under the Flare moniker until 2001, when he renamed the band Flare Acoustic Arts League.  Beghtol then became Flare's principal songwriter/musical director, and expanded its dreamy minimalism to vastly orchestral arrangements that pitted horns and strings, heavily treated guitars and noise loops against florid melodies and esoteric subject matter. The band's swansong, an ersatz "double EP" entitled "Big Top/Encore", which included originals and covers of the swirling Psychedelic Furs song "Yes I Do" and "Morgantown" by the enigmatic Brooklynite Dorsey among its 10 tracks, was released by Affairs of the Heart in August 2011 in various digital and vinyl formats. Flare formally ceased trading in 2012 after the band’s first—and only—tour of Germany and Austria.
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Smoke on the Water  "Smoke on the Water" is a song by English rock band Deep Purple, first released from the band's sixth studio album "Machine Head" (1972), which chronicles the 1971 fire at Montreux Casino.   In a 2004 publication by "Rolling Stone" magazine "Smoke on the Water" was ranked number 434 on its list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time",<ref name="RollingStone" /> "Total Guitar" magazine's ranked "Smoke on the Water" number 4 on its "Greatest Guitar Riffs Ever",<ref name="BBC" /> and in March 2005, "Q" magazine placed "Smoke on the Water" at number 12 in its list of the 100 greatest guitar tracks.<ref name="QMagazine" />
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Totems Flare  Totems Flare is the fifth studio album by electronic musician Chris Clark and the third one under the moniker Clark. It was released on 13 July 2009 by Warp.
What genre is Flare? [SEP] Redo of Healer  , also known in Japan as Kaiyari for short, is a Japanese fantasy light novel series written by Rui Tsukiyo and illustrated by Shiokonbu. It began serialization online in December 2016 on the user-generated novel publishing website Shōsetsuka ni Narō. It was later acquired by Kadokawa Shoten, who have published the series since July 2017 under their Kadokawa Sneaker Bunko imprint.  A manga adaptation with art by Sōken Haga has been serialized online via Kadokawa Shoten's "Young Ace Up" website since October 2017. An anime television series adaptation by TNK aired from January to March 2021.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP]  Citizen Brain is the second album by the Irish thrash metal band Gama Bomb. It was released on 9 June 2008 in Europe and 24 June 2008 in the United States and rest of the world by Earache Records. A Bonus DVD featuring tour and studio footage was included in early pressings of the album.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP]  The game's score has a collection of original compositions by multiple artists such as Brain & Melissa Reese with Buckethead, Larry LaLonde, Dan Monti & Greg Tripi. The soundtrack also features a collection of licensed tracks from well-known artists such as Rob Zombie, Iggy Pop and Wolfmother. The song "Get Twisted" was debuted by HipHopGamer, who is known more for being a video game journalist with the artist Brain performing the music. Two of the game's tracks, "Dragula" and "More Human Than Human" from Rob Zombie and White Zombie, respectively, have been featured in previous Twisted Metal games in the franchise.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP]  X-men on the other, X-men being another side project of Ellis. Then a self-titled album was issued in 1999 as a private release. Both are now very rare. In 2006, Brain Damage released their second album under one of the Creative Commons licenses on the free music platform Jamendo. It is a collection of recordings spawning more than fifteen years, mostly punk and/or psychedelic with science fiction inspired lyrics — among them "Quand le paysage se déchire" ("When the Landscape Tears") a song about Philip K. Dick; and "Un été de serre" inspired by Norman Spinrad's novel Greenhouse Summer, which Wagner translated into French. Most of their recorded work is now online as they work on projects including their next album, and the soundtrack to Wagner's next novel.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP]  beginning of the track. The album contains sound bites from James Cameron's movie The Abyss, while the song "Deviate" contains samples from such sources as Ren & Stimpy, The Twilight Zone episode "The Mind and the Matter" and RoboCop. A music video for "Telltale Crime" was released, and is the only video the band made at the time. It includes the band's live musicians, Daren "Klank" Diolosa (of Klank) and Klay's brother Dan Levler (of LVL). In 2010, HM Magazine ranked Brainchild number 37 on the Top 100 Christian Metal Albums of All Time list with Doc stating that "without a doubt, this is one of the coolest techno/industrial hybrid metal releases ever. Paradoxically, it was the relative presence of a song structure and memorable groove that really distinguished this release from other 'noisier' entries within the genre."
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP] Burning Hell LP/CD (1992, Blackjack) ; Genius and Brutality... Taste and Power LP/CD (1994, Blackjack) ; Obey CD (1995, Releasing Eskimo/Slow Dance) ; Urge to Kill CD (1999, Load) ; Fucking Mess LP (2008, Lystring) ; Disposal of a Dead Body 2xLP (2013, Skrammel) ; Souvenirs LP (2016, Skrammel) ; Inferno LP (2017, Skrammel) ; Cold Case LP (2020, Skrammel)
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP] Brain Slaves  Brain Slaves were a band from Auckland, New Zealand, formerly called The Coshercot Honeys. They were acclaimed for their unique sound, which combines neo-psychedelia with garage rock, pop hooks, and syncopated grooves.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP] Ood  The Ood are an alien species with telepathic abilities from the long-running science fiction series "Doctor Who". In the series' narrative, they live in the distant future (circa 42nd century).  The Ood are portrayed as a slave race, naturally gentle and kind but readily susceptible to corrupting external influence. They are later emancipated from their slavery and by "The End of Time" have progressed into an advanced civilization.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP] Harriet Tubman  Harriet Tubman (born Araminta Ross, March 10, 1913) was an American abolitionist and social activist. Born into slavery, Tubman escaped and subsequently made some 13 missions to rescue approximately 70 slaves, including family and friends, using the network of antislavery activists and safe houses known as the Underground Railroad. During the American Civil War, she served as an armed scout and spy for the Union Army. In her later years, Tubman was an activist in the movement for women's suffrage.  Born enslaved in Dorchester County, Maryland, Tubman was beaten and whipped by her various masters as a child. Early in life, she suffered a traumatic head wound when an irate overseer threw a heavy metal weight intending to hit another slave, but hit her instead. The injury caused dizziness, pain, and spells of hypersomnia, which occurred throughout her life. After her injury, Tubman began experiencing strange visions and vivid dreams, which she ascribed to premonitions from God. These experiences, combined with her Methodist upbringing, led her to become devoutly religious.  In 1849, Tubman escaped to Philadelphia, only to return to Maryland to rescue her family soon after. Slowly, one group at a time, she brought relatives with her out of the state, and eventually guided dozens of other slaves to freedom. Traveling by night and in extreme secrecy, Tubman (or "Moses", as she was called) "never lost a passenger". After the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850 was passed, she helped guide fugitives farther north into British North America (Canada), and helped newly freed slaves find work. Tubman met John Brown in 1858, and helped him plan and recruit supporters for his 1859 raid on Harpers Ferry.  When the Civil War began, Tubman worked for the Union Army, first as a cook and nurse, and then as an armed scout and spy. The first woman to lead an armed expedition in the war, she guided the raid at Combahee Ferry, which liberated more than 700 slaves. After the war, she retired to the family home on property she had purchased in 1859 in Auburn, New York, where she cared for her aging parents. She was active in the women's suffrage movement until illness overtook her, and she had to be admitted to a home for elderly African Americans that she had helped to establish years earlier. She became an icon of courage and freedom.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP] Aristotle's views on women  Aristotle's views on women influenced later Western thinkers, who quoted him as an authority until the end of the Middle Ages, influencing women's history and misogyny.  In his "Politics", Aristotle saw women as subject to men, but as higher than slaves, and lacking authority; he believed the husband should exert political rule over the wife. Among women's differences from men were that they were, in his view, more impulsive, more compassionate, more complaining, and more deceptive. He gave the same weight to women's happiness as to men's, and in his "Rhetoric" stated that society could not be happy unless women were happy too. Whereas Plato was open to the potential equality of men and women, stating both that women were not equal to men in terms of strength and virtue, but were equal to men in terms of rational and occupational capacity, and hence in the ideal Republic should be educated and allowed to work alongside men without differentiation, Aristotle appears to have disagreed.  In his theory of inheritance, Aristotle considered the mother to provide a passive material element to the child, while the father provided an active, ensouling element with the form of the human species.
What genre is Brain Slaves? [SEP]
What genre is The New World? [SEP]  The New Old World is a 2009 book by Perry Anderson.
What genre is The New World? [SEP]  New World is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed by Amazon Games Orange County and published by Amazon Games released on September 28, 2021. The game was previously scheduled to release in May 2020 and subsequently August 2021, but was delayed to its current date. Set in the mid-seventeenth century, players colonize a fictional land modeled after the Americas. Unlike other MMORPGs, New World employs a buy-to-play business model instead of subscription. The game offers microtransactions in the form of skins.
What genre is The New World? [SEP]  The New World is a collection of short stories by Russell Banks. It was first published in 1978.
What genre is The New World? [SEP]  New World is a concept album. The story takes place in a future world consisting primarily of hazardous desert terrain where numerous biodomes of massive scale contain and protect the global populace. The album revolves around a character known as The Traveler; stranded in the desert and clinging to life, he embarks on a journey to return to the biodome from which he originates while recounting the events that led him to his fatal situation. The story serves as an allegory for one's own spiritual and subconscious evolution. The Traveler, in his struggle for survival, undergoes a metamorphosis from the position of victim to a figure of immense capacity and conquers his own personal demons, empowered through his discovery of the light amidst a shroud of darkness and uncertainty.
What genre is The New World? [SEP]  New Worlds is a 2014 Channel 4 TV series, set in 1680s England and America and forming a sequel to The Devil's Whore.
What genre is The New World? [SEP] New World (video game)  New World is a massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) developed by Amazon Games Orange County and published by Amazon Games released on September 28, 2021. The game was previously scheduled to release in May 2020 and subsequently August 2021, but was delayed to its current date. Set in the mid-seventeenth century, players colonize a fictional land modeled after the Americas. While "New World" was initially planned as a free-to-play game"," it currently employs the standard business model of a buy-to-play game, a point of historical difference in comparison to many—mostly much older—MMORPGs that traditionally utilized subscription models in service of significant regular content updates. The game also offers microtransactions in the form of skins along with a limited selection of both decorative and gameplay-impacting functional items for use within the player housing system.
What genre is The New World? [SEP] Brave New World  Brave New World is a dystopian novel by English author Aldous Huxley, written in 1931 and published in 1932. Largely set in a futuristic World State, whose citizens are environmentally engineered into an intelligence-based social hierarchy, the novel anticipates huge scientific advancements in reproductive technology, sleep-learning, psychological manipulation and classical conditioning that are combined to make a dystopian society which is challenged by only a single individual: the story's protagonist. Huxley followed this book with a reassessment in essay form, "Brave New World Revisited" (1958), and with his final novel, "Island" (1962), the utopian counterpart. This novel is often compared to George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four" (1949).  In 1999, the Modern Library ranked "Brave New World" at number 5 on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. In 2003, Robert McCrum, writing for "The Observer", included "Brave New World" chronologically at number 53 in "the top 100 greatest novels of all time", and the novel was listed at number 87 on The Big Read survey by the BBC. "Brave New World" has frequently been banned and challenged since its original publication. It has landed on the American Library Association list of top 100 banned and challenged books of the decade since the association began the list in 1990.<ref name=":2" /><ref name=":3" /><ref name=":4" />
What genre is The New World? [SEP] From the New World (novel)  The story received a manga adaptation in Kodansha's manga magazine "Bessatsu Shōnen Magazine", which was serialized between May 2012 and June 2014, and an anime television series adaptation by A-1 Pictures, which aired in Japan between October 2012 and March 2013. In North America, the manga has been licensed by Vertical (itself an imprint of Kodansha USA) and the anime is licensed by Sentai Filmworks.  In 2008, "From the New World" won the Grand Prize of the 29th Nihon SF Taisho Award.
What genre is The New World? [SEP] A Whole New World  "A Whole New World" is the signature song from Disney's 1992 animated feature film "Aladdin", with music by Alan Menken and lyrics by Tim Rice. and a Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song at the 50th Golden Globe Awards. "A Whole New World" also won the Grammy Awards for Song of the Year and Best Song Written Specifically for a Motion Picture or for Television at the 36th Annual Grammy Awards, becoming the first and so far only Disney song to win in the former category. In the same year, the version sung by Peabo Bryson and Regina Belle was also nominated for Record of the Year and Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals, winning the latter.  Zayn Malik and Zhavia Ward did their version of the song for the live action version of "Aladdin" (2019). The music video featuring Zayn Malik and Zhavia Ward was directed by Philip Andelman, photographed by David Devlin and supported the successful release of the 2019 live action feature film "Aladdin" directed by Guy Ritchie.
What genre is The New World? [SEP] A New Earth  A New Earth: Awakening to Your Life’s Purpose is a 2005 self-help book by Eckhart Tolle. The book sold 5 million copies in North America by 2009. In 2008 it was selected for Oprah's Book Club and featured in a series of 10 weekly webinars with Tolle and Oprah Winfrey.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP]  McKendree Long (1888 — 1976) was an American minister and painter.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP]  Kevin McKendree (born April 27, 1969) is an American electric blues pianist, keyboardist, guitarist, singer, and songwriter. In addition to his lengthy and varied career as a session musician, McKendree has released two solo albums.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP]  The Presbyterian Historical Society in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, has McKendree Robbins Long's Papers, including written and printed materials; original drawings, sketches, and illustrations; a folder of photographs; and seven sermons recorded on Duodisc electric transcription discs. Long embellished a portion of his handwritten work with imaginative illustrations and/or illumination, making this collection, and Long, particularly unique.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP]  Born Kevin Yates McKendree, in Nuremberg, Germany, he is a self-taught pianist and guitarist, initially utilising the playing of Little Richard, Ray Charles and B.B. King as inspiration. At the age of 17, he became a professional musician and worked around the Washington, D.C. area playing alongside Big Joe Maher, Tom Principato, Bob Margolin and Mark Wenner. However, he also worked as a piano salesman to supplement his income. He relocated to Nashville, Tennessee in 1995, and secured a job backing Lee Roy Parnell as part of his band known as the Hot Links. McKendree co-wrote and co-produced the instrumental track "Mama, Screw Your Wig
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP]  Film
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP] McKendree Long  McKendree Long (1888 — 1976) was an American minister and painter.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP] McKendree University  McKendree University (McK) is a private university in Lebanon, Illinois. Founded in 1828 as the Lebanon Seminary, it is the oldest college or university in Illinois. McKendree enrolls approximately 2,300 undergraduates and nearly 700 graduate students representing 25 countries and 29 states. In the undergraduate program, on average there are 51% females and 49% males. The institution remains affiliated with the United Methodist Church. The school was renamed McKendree University beginning in the 2007–08 academic year. McKendree University comprises a College of Arts and Science, a School of Business, a School of Health Professions, and a School of Education.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP] McKendree cylinder  A McKendree cylinder is a type of hypothetical rotating space habitat originally proposed at NASA's Turning Goals into Reality conference in 2000 by NASA engineer Tom McKendree. As with other space habitat designs, the cylinder would spin to produce artificial gravity by way of centrifugal force. The design differs from the classical designs produced in the 1970s by Gerard K. O'Neill and NASA in that it would use carbon nanotubes instead of steel, allowing the habitat to be built much larger. In the original proposal, the habitat would consist of a cylinder approximately in radius and in length, containing of living space,<ref name=original/> nearly as much land area as that of Russia.  As originally proposed, the McKendree cylinder is simply a scaled-up version of the O'Neill cylinder. Like the O'Neill cylinder, McKendree proposed dedicating half of the surface of the colony to windows, allowing direct illumination of the interior.<ref name=original/> The habitat would be composed of a pair of counter-rotating cylinders which would function like momentum wheels to control the habitat's orientation.<ref name=original/>
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP] Edward McKendree Bounds  Edward McKendree Bounds (August 15, 1835 – August 24, 1913) prominently known as E.M. Bounds, was an American author, attorney, and member of the Methodist Episcopal Church South clergy. He is known for writing 11 books, nine of which focused on the subject of prayer. Only two of Bounds' books were published before he died. After his death, Rev. Claudius (Claude) Lysias Chilton, Jr., grandson of William Parish Chilton and admirer of Bounds, worked on preserving and preparing Bounds' collection of manuscripts for publication. By 1921, Homer W. Hodge completed additional editorial work.
What genre is McKendree Long? [SEP] Ben Long (American painter)  Ben Long (born 1945) is an American painter and the grandson of noted artist McKendree Robbins Long.
What genre is Drill? [SEP]  Drill is a style of trap music defined by its dark, violent and nihilistic lyrical content and ominous trap-influenced beats. Drill progressed into the American mainstream in mid-2012 following the success of rappers and producers like Young Chop, Chief Keef, Lil Durk, King Louie, DomBoy2k, Fredo Santana, and Lil Reese who had many local fans and a significant Internet presence. Media attention and the signing of drill musicians to major labels followed. Artists within the genre have been noted for their style of lyricism and association with crime in Chicago. A regional subgenre UK drill emerged in London particularly in the district of Brixton beginning in 2012. UK drill rose to prominence by the mid-2010s and has influenced other regional scenes such as Australian, Spanish, Irish, Dutch and New York drill (re-introduced to Brooklyn in the late 2010s).
What genre is Drill? [SEP]  diminished, which is why they sound so airless and claustrophobic ... It's not even fatalistic, because that would imply a self-consciousness, a moral consideration, that isn't there in the lyrics. It just is, over and over again." A profile on the scene in The New York Times examined the genre's aggression: With rare exception this music is unmediated and raw and without bright spots, focused on anger and violence. The instinct is to call this tough, unforgiving and concrete-hard music joyless, but in truth it's exuberant in its darkness. Most of its practitioners are young and coming into their creative own
What genre is Drill? [SEP]  The Drill is the eighth studio album by the British post-punk group Wire. Allmusic states that the album effectively consists of remixes of the same song, "Drill", and is officially listed as an EP rather than an album despite its length of almost one hour.
What genre is Drill? [SEP]  The lyrics of drill tend to be violent and very gritty. The Guardians Lucy Stehlik said "nihilistic drill reflects real life where its squeaky-clean hip-hop counterparts have failed." Drill lyrics strongly contrast with the subject matter of earlier Chicago rappers and contemporary mainstream hip hop which at the time of drill's emergence tended to glorify and celebrate a rise to wealth. Drill lyrics typically reflect life on the streets, and tend to be gritty, violent, realistic and nihilistic. Drill rappers use a grim, deadpan delivery, often filtered through Auto-Tune, influenced by the "stoned, aimless warbling of Soulja Boy (one of the earliest
What genre is Drill? [SEP]  The Drill is an international chart topping house music record written produced and performed by electronic music pioneer and Israeli-born UK producer Matt Schwartz. He is also responsible for hits under his "Dada" and "Deepest Blue" and M'Black guises. Popular again in 2021 in Poland, due to an emerging meme "Drill Alert".
What genre is Drill? [SEP] Drill music  Drill is a subgenre of hip hop music that originated in Chicago streets in the early 2010s. It is sonically similar to the trap music subgenre and lyrically similar to the gangsta rap subgenre. Drill music progressed into the American mainstream circa 2012 following the success of rappers like Chief Keef, Lil Durk, Lil Reese, Fredo Santana, G Herbo, Lil Bibby, and King Louie who had many local fans and a significant internet presence alongside producer Young Chop. Media attention and the signing of drill musicians to major labels followed. Artists within the genre have been noted for their style of lyricism and association with crime in Chicago.  A regional subgenre UK drill emerged in London particularly in the district of Brixton, beginning in 2012. UK drill rose to prominence by mid-2012 and has influenced other regional scenes, such as Australian, Spanish, Irish, Dutch, and Brooklyn drill (re-introduced to Brooklyn in the late 2010s).
What genre is Drill? [SEP] UK drill  UK drill is a subgenre of drill music and road rap that originated in the South London district of Brixton from 2012 onwards. Initially borrowing heavily from the style of Chicago drill music before creating its own unique sound, UK drill artists often rap about violent and hedonistic criminal lifestyles.<ref name=":0" /> Typically, those who create this style of music are affiliated with gangs or come from socioeconomically-deprived neighbourhoods where crime is a way of life for many.<ref name=":0" />  UK drill music is closely related to road rap, a British style of gangsta rap that became popular in the years prior to the existence of drill. UK drill often exhibits violent language and provocative lyrics,<ref name=":3" /> resulting in the genre being cited as a reason for an increase in knife crime in London.<ref name = "ind1"/><ref name = "times1"/>
What genre is Drill? [SEP] Jersey club  Jersey club (originally called Brick City club  Similarly to its Baltimore influences, Jersey club is an aggressive style defined by its fast, “bouncy” groove at tempos near 130–140 BPM, The style often consists of remixes of rap and R&B tracks.<ref name=run/> It is often accompanied by frenetic, competitive dances which have gained global popularity through viral videos.<ref name=RA/>
What genre is Drill? [SEP] Brooklyn drill  Brooklyn drill is a regional subgenre of drill music, centered in Brooklyn, New York, that began as derivative of the drill music scene in Chicago and later became derivative of UK drill with its 808 percussion and sliding notes by producers from the UK drill scene. Brooklyn drill emerged around 2014 with the single "Hot Nigga" from the rapper Bobby Shmurda. Other early pioneers were rappers Rowdy Rebel, Bam Bino, Money Millz, Dah Dah and Curly Savv. It was again made popular in the mainstream in 2019 by the late Pop Smoke. With the success of his mixtapes "Meet the Woo" (2019) and "Meet the Woo 2" (2020), Pop Smoke introduced Brooklyn drill into the mainstream music industry. Other notable Brooklyn drill artists include Fivio Foreign, 22Gz, Sheff G, Sleepy Hallow, and Dusty Locane.
What genre is Drill? [SEP] Drill Music in Zion  Drill Music in Zion is the eighth studio album by American hip hop recording artist Lupe Fiasco, released on June 24, 2022, through 1st & 15th and Thirty Tigers. The album was preceded by two singles, "Autoboto" and "Drill Music in Zion".
What genre is Settle? [SEP]  Settle is an indie rock band from Easton, Pennsylvania currently signed to Epitaph Records whose debut album, At Home We Are Tourists, was released May 19, 2009. The signing of Settle is part of Epitaph's efforts to expand its sound beyond its pop punk roots.
What genre is Settle? [SEP]  Settle The Sky is an American metalcore band. The band has had members that have gone on to play with Blessthefall, Before Their Eyes, Grubby Paws, Affairs, Glasslands, Convictions, and Glaslungs.
What genre is Settle? [SEP]  "Settle" is a song by Australian singer songwriter, Vera Blue and was released on 11 March 2016. and peaked at number 79 on the Australian ARIA Chart in April 2016. A black-and-white music video was released on 3 March 2016.
What genre is Settle? [SEP]  Mike Wass from Idolator said the song was "dark and brooding" and "Melancholy piano propels the song along with delicate synths merely adding depth and texture."
What genre is Settle? [SEP]  At Home We Are Tourists is the debut album by American indie rock band Settle. It was released in May 2009 on Epitaph Records.
What genre is Settle? [SEP] This Is Me (The Greatest Showman song)  "This Is Me" is a song performed by Keala Settle for the film "The Greatest Showman". It was released on October 26, 2017, by Atlantic Records as a promotional single from "" and the official lead single on December 8, 2017. It won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song at the 90th Academy Awards, but lost to "Remember Me" from the film "Coco". It was later nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards.  Following the film's global release, the song charted within the top five in the United Kingdom, the top ten in Australia, Ireland, Malaysia, and South Korea and the top twenty in Belgium (Flanders) and New Zealand.
What genre is Settle? [SEP] John Newman (singer)  John William Peter Newman (born 16 June 1990) is an English singer, songwriter, musician and record producer. He is best known for the track "Love Me Again" which peaked at number one on the UK Singles Chart in July 2013 and appeared in "FIFA 14", as well as co-writing and singing on Rudimental's 2012 singles "Feel the Love" and "Not Giving In", which peaked at number one and number 14 on the chart, respectively. In 2014, he featured in the Calvin Harris single "Blame", which also topped the UK charts.  At the 2014 Brit Awards, Newman was nominated for three Brit Awards, including for British Male Solo Artist. As of February 2014, he has sold over 1.3 million records in the UK alone.
What genre is Settle? [SEP] Settle Down (No Doubt song)  "Settle Down" is a song by American rock band No Doubt. It is the first single from their sixth studio album "Push and Shove" (2012). Written by Gwen Stefani, Tony Kanal, Tom Dumont, and produced by Spike Stent, it was released on July 16, 2012 by Interscope Records. The song is a combination of many styles, such as reggae, ska, dancehall, Latin and Caribbean-tinged beats, merging with American pop and rock music. Lyrically, the song is about confidence and about feeling good, adjusting yourself to unfamiliar circumstances.  The song received positive reviews from music critics, who praised the band for "returning to form" and for being familiar with their other songs. Some critics wrote that it resembles the songs from their fifth album "Rock Steady", and particularly "Hey Baby", while some others compared it to Santigold songs.  A music video for the song was directed by Sophie Muller and released on July 16, 2012. In it, the members of No Doubt reassemble in the form of a trucking convoy, which meets up to perform the song in a parking lot. It received mostly favorable reviews, with the reviewers praising the colors, lights and the band for returning to do videos.
What genre is Settle? [SEP] Settle Down (Kimbra song)  "Settle Down" is a song written by Kimbra and François Tétaz and features the production of Tétaz and M-Phazes and was recorded from 2008–10. The song served as Kimbra's debut single and the lead single for her debut album "Vows" (2011). It was released on June 6, 2010 and then re-released on November 1, 2011. It is the first and only song Kimbra has released stems/multitracks for. The single peaked at number 37 on the New Zealand Singles Chart.
What genre is Settle? [SEP] Disclosure (band)  Disclosure is an English electronic music duo consisting of brothers Howard (born 11 May 1994) and Guy Lawrence (born 25 May 1991). They grew up in Reigate, Surrey. Their debut studio album, "Settle", released on 3 June 2013, by PMR Records, was nominated for Best Dance/Electronica Album at the 2014 Grammy Awards. They released a second studio album, "Caracal", on 25 September 2015 which was also nominated for Best Dance/Electronic Album at the 2016 Grammy Awards. Their third studio album, "Energy", was released on 28 August 2020, and was nominated for Best Dance/Electronic Album at the 2021 Grammy Awards, alongside the fourth single from the album, "My High", which was nominated for Best Dance Recording.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP]  Magic is a French music magazine which is released on a monthly basis. It was formed out of the ashes of a small fanzine produced by music aficionados from France in 1995. The magazine's target readership is composed of young adults, students and young professionals who are keen to pursue the latest fashionable trend in music (and other forms of culture).
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP]  The first album has been described as "stream-of-conscious lyrics and swirls of psychedelic, lo-fi noise", and "insistently repetitive grooves and densely layered loops". NPR Music stated that its "colorful swirl of synthesizers and guitars ranges from electronic folk to psychedelia to lo-fi acoustic". Erik Adams, writing for The A.V. Club, saw it as an album of two distinct sides, "one full of hummable, groove-inflected bedroom folk, and the other populated by cascading waves of ambient white noise". Tim DiGravina, reviewing the album for Allmusic described it as "everything but the kitchen sink, stream of conscious composition...taking on a couple different and somewhat incongruous genres, from Afro-beat pop to freak folk to outright noise collages". The expanded line-up has been described as "psychedelic electro-folk" and walking "the line between ambient hypnotica and melodic indie rock". The Independent, reviewing "Collector" also identified a krautrock influence, stating that the band "channel propulsive krautrock and 1980s indie rock to great effect". Allmusic writer Jason Thurston described the band's sound as an "ethereal collage of indie folk, Baroque pop, plains country (and whatever else strikes their fancy)".
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP]  Magic! is a Canadian reggae fusion band based in Toronto, Ontario. The band is composed of lead vocalist, guitarist and producer Nasri Atweh (Nasri), guitarist and keyboardist Mark "Pelli" Pellizzer, bassist Ben Spivak, and drummer Alex Tanas. Active since 2012, the band is signed with Latium, Sony, and RCA Records, releasing their debut studio album Don't Kill the Magic in 2014, their second studio album Primary Colours in 2016, and their third studio album Expectations in 2018. They are best known for their hit single "Rude", which charted at No. 1 in several countries worldwide, including the US and UK. The band is heavily inspired by the Police and Bob Marley and the Wailers. They are known for having a signature reggae-influenced pop sound.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP]  Ministry of Magic is a wizard rock band with a pop/electronica sound. The band was started in 2007 by Jason Munday and several of his friends. They have released several albums and given hundreds of performances. In a 2010 survey carried out by Kelli Rohlman, a musicology graduate student from Texas Tech University, 98% of 125 respondents listed Ministry of Magic among their favorite wizard rock bands.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP]  The album was well regarded by NPR Music, The Current, and Paste magazine, with the latter saying "Sympathetic Magic appeals to both our desire for heartwarming, acutely detailed scenes and the untangling of complex emotions that can nag at a person" and NPR's Robin Hilton saying "…it’d be easy for music as conceptual as this, and as driven by big ideas as this music is, to take itself [too] seriously, and it never does. It’s always just pitch perfect”. Atwood Magazine praised the album for its production, arrangement, and memorability.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP] Magic!  Magic! (stylized in all uppercase) is a Canadian reggae fusion band based in Toronto, Ontario. The band is composed of lead vocalist, guitarist/producer Nasri Atweh, guitarist/keyboardist Mark "Pelli" Pellizzer, and bassist Ben Spivak. Active since 2012, the band is signed with Latium, Sony, and RCA Records, releasing their debut studio album "Don't Kill the Magic" in 2014, their second studio album "Primary Colours" in 2016, and their third studio album "Expectations" in 2018. They are best known for their hit single "Rude", which charted at No. 1 in several countries worldwide, including the US and UK.  The band is heavily inspired by the Police and Bob Marley and the Wailers. They are known for having a signature reggae-influenced pop sound.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP] Yellow Magic Orchestra  Yellow Magic Orchestra (YMO for short) was a Japanese electronic music band formed in Tokyo in 1978 by Haruomi Hosono (bass, keyboards, vocals), Yukihiro Takahashi (drums, lead vocals) and Ryuichi Sakamoto (keyboards, vocals). The group is considered influential and innovative in the field of popular electronic music. They are credited with playing a key role in the development of several electronic genres, including synthpop, J-pop, electro, and techno, while exploring subversive sociopolitical themes throughout their career.  The three members were veterans of the music industry before coming together as YMO, and were inspired by eclectic sources, including the electronic music of Isao Tomita and Kraftwerk, Japanese traditional music, arcade games, funk music, and the disco productions of Giorgio Moroder. They released the surprise global hit "Computer Game" in 1978, reaching the UK Top 20 and selling 400,000 copies in the US. For their early recordings and performances, the band was often accompanied by programmer Hideki Matsutake.<ref name="sound_147"/> The group released several albums before pausing their activity in 1984. They have briefly reunited several times in subsequent decades.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP] MC Magic  Marco Cardenas (born 29 June 1967), better known by his stage name MC Magic, is an American rapper, songwriter and record producer known for singing and rapping, both in English and Spanish.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP] Magic System  Magic System is an Ivorian coupé-décalé band from Abidjan. It was founded in 1996 and comprises Asalfo, Goude, Tino, and Manadja.  Magic System's recordings in the Zouglou dance style have featured in the charts throughout Africa, and in France, where the band became very popular modern African artists.
What genre is Magic Music? [SEP] 24K Magic (song)  "24K Magic" is a song by American singer Bruno Mars from his studio album of the same name (2016). Atlantic Records released it as the album's lead single on October 7, 2016, for digital download and streaming. Atlantic provided it as an instant grat track for those who pre-ordered the album. Mars, Philip Lawrence and Christopher Brody Brown wrote the single. Calling themselves Shampoo Press & Curl the three of them handled production, with additional production by the Stereotypes. The song has been described as a funk, disco and contemporary R&B track, heavily influenced by hip hop. "The A.V. Club" noticed the synthesizer riff and backbeat resembled the one in "The Message" (1982) by Grandmaster Flash and the Furious Five. The song's lyrics address extravagance, glamour, and the party lifestyle.  "24K Magic" was generally well received by music critics. Some of them complimented Mars's vocals and compared them to James Brown, describing the song as engaging, fun and evoking feelings of nostalgia. Others criticized it for not being innovative as it tried to emulate "Uptown Funk" (2014). The song was a commercial success. It peaked at number four in the United States and number three in Canada and Australia. It has been certified five times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). It was certified six times platinum by Music Canada (MC). The single reached number one in New Zealand, France, Belgium (Flanders) and Argentina. It has received a diamond certification in France and a platinum one in New Zealand. In the United Kingdom and Spain, the song peaked at number five, being certified two times platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and by Productores de Música de España (PROMUSICAE).  Director Cameron Duddy shot the song's music video with Mars. It depicts Mars and his bandmates partying and having fun in a Las Vegas casino. At the end of the video, Mars is riding a jet ski in the Fountains of the Bellagio Hotel. He performed "24K Magic" on television shows such as "Saturday Night Live", "The Late Late Show" and it was first included on his 24K Magic World Tour (2017–18). The song received several nominations and won Record of the Year at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards in 2018. The film "" has used portions of the track in the film. Kendrick Lamar's single "Loyalty" (2017) featuring Rihanna sampled the song's introduction.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP]  VOYAGE-19 is an EP by the American singer-songwriter Bilal, in collaboration with HighBreedMusic, a music studio and production company in Brooklyn, New York. It was released digitally on September 6, 2020, through the music publishing platform Bandcamp and is his first EP, as well as his first album-type release since 2015's In Another Life. Produced by Bilal with HighBreedMusic owner Tariq Khan, VOYAGE-19 was recorded over the course of three days in August 2020 with 30 other musicians, including fellow singer-songwriter Erykah Badu, the pianist Robert Glasper, the saxophonist Marcus Strickland, the harpist Brandee Younger, and the drummer Marcus Gilmore. Its recording sessions, spanning 54 hours, were conducted remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic lockdowns and streamed live on YouTube. The cover art was designed by the visual artist Angelbert Metoyer. A musically experimental work, VOYAGE-19 reflects contemporary societal concerns in its themes. With many of the contributing musicians struggling financially because of the pandemic, they received revenues from the EP as well as any direct donations that accompanied its sale. Critics received the work positively, impressed by the musicians' musicality and ambitions under the circumstances.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP]  Voyages is a 1999 French drama film directed by Emmanuel Finkiel. The film was screened at the Directors' Fortnight event of the 1999 Cannes Film Festival and won the Award of the Youth for French Film.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP]  Fantastic Voyage II: Destination Brain is a science fiction novel by American writer Isaac Asimov, published in 1987. It is about a group of scientists who shrink to microscopic size in order to enter a human brain so that they can retrieve memories from a comatose colleague.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP]  Jules Verne remains to this day the most translated science fiction author in the world as well as one of the most continually reprinted and widely read French authors. Though often scientifically outdated, his Voyages still retain their sense of wonder that appealed to readers of his time, and still provoke an interest in the sciences among the young. The Voyages are frequently adapted into film, from Georges Méliès' fanciful 1902 film Le Voyage dans la Lune (aka A Trip to the Moon), to Walt Disney's 1954 adaptation of Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea, to the 2004 version of Around the World in 80 Days starring Jackie Chan. Their spirit has also continued to influence fiction to this day, including James Gurney's Dinotopia series and "softening" Steampunk's dystopianism with utopian wonder and curiosity.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP]  In July 2006, a long-awaited complete recording of the opera became available on Glass' Orange Mountain Music label, based on the staging by the Landestheater Linz (Austria) and conducted by Dennis Russell Davies.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP] Voyage (band)  Voyage was a French disco and pop group, consisting of André "Slim" Pezin (guitar/vocals), Marc Chantereau (keyboards/vocals), Pierre-Alain Dahan (drums/vocals) and Sauveur Mallia (bass), together with British lead vocalist Sylvia Mason-James, who sang on the group's first two albums, "Voyage" (1977) and "Fly Away" (1978).  For their next two albums, Pierre-Alain Dahan became the lead vocalist on "Voyage 3" (1980) and on "One Step Higher" (1982), and the group's sound changed from disco to pop.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP] Voyager (Australian band)  Voyager is a progressive metal band from Perth, Western Australia, formed in 1999. The band has released seven full-length albums. Their seventh full-length studio album, "Colours in the Sun", was released worldwide on 1 November 2019 on the French American metal record label Season of Mist.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP] Voyage, voyage  "Voyage, voyage" () is a song by French singer Desireless, released as the first single from her debut studio album, "François" (1989). It was written by Jean-Michel Rivat and Dominique Dubois, and produced by the former. Sung entirely in French, the song transcended the language barrier on the music charts and became a huge international success between 1986 and 1988, reaching the top position in more than ten countries across Europe.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP] The Voyage of the Dawn Treader  The Voyage of the Dawn Treader is a high fantasy novel for children by C. S. Lewis, published by Geoffrey Bles in 1952. It was the third published of seven novels in "The Chronicles of Narnia" (1950–1956). Macmillan US published an American edition within the calendar year.<ref name=isfdb/><ref name=LCC/> with substantial revisions that were retained in the United States until 1994. It is volume five in recent editions, which are sequenced according to the novels' internal chronology. Like the other "Chronicles of Narnia", "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" was illustrated by Pauline Baynes, and her work has been retained in many later editions.<ref name=isfdb/><ref name=LCC/>  In the novel, Edmund and Lucy Pevensie (along with their cousin Eustace Scrubb) are taken out of this world into the enchanted land of Narnia. They are reunited with the Pevensies' friend, King Caspian X of Narnia, aboard Caspian's ship, the "Dawn Treader". Caspian has vowed to sail east across the Great Eastern Ocean for a year and a day to find the seven lost Lords of Narnia. Lewis dedicated the book to Geoffrey Corbett. Corbett, who later changed his name to Jeffrey Barfield, is the adopted son of Owen Barfield, a friend of Lewis's.  "The Voyage of the Dawn Treader" has been adapted and filmed as four episodes of a BBC television series in 1989 and as a in 2010.
What genre is Voyage? [SEP] A Trip to the Moon  A Trip to the Moon () is a 1902 French adventure short film directed by Georges Méliès. Inspired by a wide variety of sources, including Jules Verne's 1865 novel "From the Earth to the Moon" and its 1870 sequel "Around the Moon", the film follows a group of astronomers who travel to the Moon in a cannon-propelled capsule, explore the Moon's surface, escape from an underground group of Selenites (lunar inhabitants), and return to Earth with a captive Selenite. Its ensemble cast of French theatrical performers is led by Méliès himself as the main character Professor Barbenfouillis. The film features the overtly theatrical style for which Méliès became famous.  Scholars have commented upon the film's extensive use of pataphysical and anti-imperialist satire, as well as on its wide influence on later filmmakers and its artistic significance within the French theatrical "féerie" tradition. Though the film disappeared into obscurity after Méliès's retirement from the film industry, it was rediscovered around 1930, when Méliès's importance to the history of cinema was beginning to be recognised by film devotees. An original hand-colored print was discovered in 1993 and restored in 2011.  "A Trip to the Moon" was an internationally popular success on its release and was extensively pirated by other studios, especially in the United States. Its unusual length, lavish production values, innovative special effects, and emphasis on storytelling were markedly influential on other filmmakers and ultimately on the development of narrative film as a whole. It was ranked 84th of the 100 greatest films of the 20th century by "The Village Voice". The film remains Méliès' best known, and the moment in which the capsule lands in the Moon's eye remains one of the most iconic and frequently referenced images in the history of cinema. It is widely regarded as the earliest example of the science fiction film genre and, more generally, as one of the most influential films in cinema history.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP]  Marty Marsala (2 April 1909 &ndash; 27 April 1975) was an American jazz trumpeter born in Chicago, perhaps best known for working from 1926-1946 with his brother Joe Marsala in a big band in New York City and Chicago. He had also toured with various artists, such as Chico Marx and Miff Mole, to name a few. During the 1940s Marsala was a celebrated West Coast jazz trumpeter, commuting back and forth from Chicago to San Francisco frequently. In various club settings Marsala shared stages with Earl Hines and Sidney Bechet.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP]  Joseph Francis Marsala (January 4, 1907 – March 4, 1978) was an Italian-American jazz clarinetist and songwriter. His younger brother was trumpeter Marty Marsala and he was married to jazz harpist Adele Girard.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP]  Marty Marsala began his professional career playing drums for bands led by Joe Bananas and Red Feilen in Chicago. During the 1920s he switched to the trumpet and soon joined his brother Joe Marsala's band in New York City following years as a freelance musician in Chicago, trumpeting for them from 1936 to 1941. In 1937 and 1938 he also worked with Bob Howard and Tempo King. He worked with the Will Hudson Orchestra and then led a local band for a while, joining Chico Marx's band and playing for them from 1942 to 1943; the band was technically led by Ben Pollack, but performed under Marx's name. He served briefly in the United States Army from 1944&ndash;1945. After service he toured between San Francisco and Chicago, playing much dixieland with his brother again as well as Miff Mole and Tony Parenti. He became especially popular in California during these years. In 1955 he moved permanently to San Francisco and began leading his own groups and recording with Kid Ory and Earl Hines. During the 1960s his health deteriorated and he retired from performing in 1965, never recording under his own name.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP]  He was born in Chicago, Illinois, United States. In the 1920s, Marsala played guitar in clubs in his hometown of Chicago with Ben Pollack and Wingy Manone. After moving to New York City, he recorded and performed with Manone in the 1930s. As a leader, he worked with drummers Buddy Rich, Shelly Manne, and Dave Tough; guitarist Eddie Condon, pianist Joe Bushkin, trumpeter Max Kaminsky, his brother Marty Marsala, and his wife, jazz harpist Adele Girard. In 1948, he left professional performing and entered music publishing. By 1949, he was writing traditional pop songs, including "Don't Cry, Joe (Let Her Go, Let Her Go, Let Her Go)", which
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP]  Graffiti Ghoul, which is about Marty, a Chinese boy, trying to solve a mystery with his friend Remi. It has been nominated for a MYRCA (Manitoba Young Readers Choice Award), and has won the Diamond Willow Award. His third children's book The Mystery of the Mad Science Teacher is coming out soon. In March 2009 his new book, True Story, drew a book prize. He has visited many schools, and attended many events in Edmonton. He graduated the University of Alberta with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1989. He has received an Arts Achievement Award and a Performance Award from the City of Edmonton, for his contributions, such as serving as the Chair of the Edmonton Arts Council.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP] Marty Marsala  Marty Marsala (2 April 1909 – 27 April 1975) was an American jazz trumpeter born in Chicago, perhaps best known for working from 1926-1946 with his brother Joe Marsala in a big band in New York City and Chicago. He had also toured with various artists, such as Chico Marx and Miff Mole, to name a few. During the 1940s Marsala was a celebrated West Coast jazz trumpeter, commuting back and forth from Chicago to San Francisco frequently. In various club settings Marsala shared stages with Earl Hines and Sidney Bechet.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP] Joe Marsala  Joseph Francis Marsala (January 4, 1907 – March 4, 1978) was an Italian-American jazz clarinetist and songwriter. His younger brother was trumpeter Marty Marsala and he was married to jazz harpist Adele Girard.
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP] Johnny Windhurst  John Henry Windhurst (November 5, 1926 – October 2, 1981) was an American jazz trumpet player, who played primarily in the swing, big-band, and dixieland styles. Windhurst was a self-taught musician and known for his solos; he considered Bix Beiderbecke, Bobby Hackett, Wild Bill Davison, and Bunny Berigan among his influences. His playing style was considered to be a mixture of the delicate playing style of Bobby Hackett with his own feathery vibrato and mobility. Ruby Braff has cited Windhurst as one of his biggest inspirations as a jazz artist.<ref name="auto"/>
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP] Marsala (surname)  Marsala is an Italian surname, originated from the city of Marsala, in Sicily. Notable people with the surname include:
What genre is Marty Marsala? [SEP] Burt Bales  Burton Franklin Bales (April 20, 1916, Stevensville, Montana – October 26, 1989, San Francisco) was an American jazz stride pianist.  Bales began to play piano at age twelve, and played in hotels and nightclubs in California in the 1930s. He played regularly in San Francisco in the 1940s, with Lu Watters's Yerba Buena Jazz Band, but was drafted in 1943 and only recorded with that group on one brief session with Bunk Johnson. He was discharged for myopia and led his own band from 1943 to 1946 before taking an extended residency at San Francisco's 1018 Club. He played with Turk Murphy (1949–50), Bob Scobey, and Marty Marsala, then played mostly solo between 1954 and 1966; one of his regular gigs was at Pier 23. He recorded extensively for Good Time Jazz, Arhoolie, ABC-Paramount, and Euphonic.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]   Qian Du (Wade–Giles: Ch'ien Tu, traditional: 錢杜, simplified: 钱杜; pinyin: Qián Dù); c. 1764&ndash;1844 was a Chinese landscape painter during the Qing Dynasty (1644&ndash;1912). Qian was born in the Zhejiang province. His style name was 'Shumei' and his sobriquets were 'Songhu, Songhu Xiaoyin and Hegong'. Qian painted landscapes in a style influenced by Wang Meng. He also painted human figures and flowers.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]  martial arts piece that focuses on a woman – in a genre that is usually male-centered. Mo Du has been commended by Tan Tian of Literature and Art Newspaper for the following: "...inheritance of traditional literary resources, which is mainly manifested in three aspects: titles, selected sentences and contents are integrated into the elements of traditional literary resources; realistic style is concerned about social hot issues; the slow introduction of narrative rhythm and complex story structure suggest that network literature extradite the essence of traditional literature." For Can Ci Pin, the 30th China Science Fiction Galaxy Awards has stated, "Under the surface of
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]  Duan Jingzhu is a fictional character in Water Margin, one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature. Nicknamed "Golden Haired Hound", he ranks 108th among the 108 Stars of Destiny and 72nd among the 72 Earthly Fiends.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]  .
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]  Huangfu Duan is a fictional character in Water Margin, one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed "Purple Bearded Count", he ranks 57th among the 108 Stars of Destiny and 21st among the 72 Earthly Fiends.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP] Qian Du  Qian Du (Wade–Giles: Ch'ien Tu, traditional: 錢杜, simplified: 钱杜; pinyin: Qián Dù); c. 1764–1844 was a Chinese landscape painter during the Qing Dynasty (1644–1912).  Qian was born in the Zhejiang province. His style name was 'Shumei' and his sobriquets were 'Songhu, Songhu Xiaoyin and Hegong'. Qian painted landscapes in a style influenced by Wang Meng. He also painted human figures and flowers.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP] Du Qian  Du Qian is a fictional character in "Water Margin", one of the Four Great Classical Novels in Chinese literature. Nicknamed "Touching the Sky", he ranks 83rd among the 108 Stars of Destiny and 47th among the 72 Earthly Fiends.
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP]
What genre is Qian Du? [SEP] Qian Hongzuo  Qian Hongzuo (錢弘佐; 14 August 928<ref name=AS/><ref name=SGCQ80/> – 22 June 947<ref name=AS/><ref name=ZZTJ287/>), courtesy name Yuanyou (), formally King Zhongxian of Wuyue (), possibly with the temple name of Chengzong (), was the third king () of the Chinese Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms Period state Wuyue.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP]  The Mother and the Enemy is the fourth studio album by the Polish symphonic black metal group Lux Occulta. It expands upon the band's signature sound by incorporating influences from a variety of styles, including free jazz, trip hop, death metal, industrial music, electronica, and spoken word.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP]  Magona published two autobiographies: To My Children's Children and Forced To Grow; two collections of short stories: Living Loving and Lying Awake at Night and Push-Push and Other Stories; and four novels: Mother to Mother, Beauty's Gift, Life is a Hard but Beautiful Thing, and Chasing Tails of My Father's Cattle! She published her autobiography, To My Children's Children, in 1990. In 1998, she published Mother to Mother, a fictionalized account of the Amy Biehl killing, which she adapted into a play. This was performed at the Baxter Theatre complex in late 2009 and the film rights were acquired by Type A Films in 2003. She wrote autobiographies and short
What genre is To Mother? [SEP]  To Mother is the first EP by American punk band Babes in Toyland, released July 1, 1991 by Twin/Tone Records. It consists of outtakes from their previous release, Spanking Machine, which were re-recorded and produced by John Loder in London in 1990. It was a commercial success in the United Kingdom, where it peaked at number 1 on the UK Indie Chart, remaining in the number 1 position for ten weeks.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP]  The Road to Mother (, Anaǵa aparar jol) is a 2016 Kazakhstani drama film directed by Akan Satayev. It was selected as the Kazakhstani entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 90th Academy Awards, but it was not nominated.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP]  The video game Mother 1+2 (MOTHER 1+2) is a port release of Mother and EarthBound (Mother 2) by Nintendo for the Game Boy Advance, released in 2003. Despite its title, the eponymous album is an arranged album. It was released by Toshiba-EMI on August 20, 2003. The first ten tracks from the album are from Mother, while the last 16 are from Earthbound. Unlike the original soundtrack albums, the Mother tracks on this album did not include any vocal arrangements and the Earthbound tracks were not composed of tracks merged. Another album for the collection, Mother 1+2 midi Piano Version, was released three years later
What genre is To Mother? [SEP] Mother Mother  Mother Mother is a Canadian indie rock band based in Quadra Island, British Columbia. The band consists of Ryan Guldemond on guitar and vocals, Molly Guldemond and Jasmin Parkin on vocals and keyboard, Ali Siadat on drums, and Mike Young on bass. Longtime bassist Jeremy Page left the band in 2016.  In 2005, they independently released their self-titled debut album under the band name Mother. They later changed their name to Mother Mother, and re-released the album on Last Gang Records in 2007. Retitled "Touch Up", the reissue also featured several new songs.  The band's second album, "O My Heart", was released on September 16, 2008; their third album, "Eureka", was released on March 15, 2011; their fourth album, "The Sticks", was released on September 18, 2012; and their fifth album, "Very Good Bad Thing" was released on November 4, 2014, with an American release of April 7, 2015, on Def Jam Recordings. Their sixth album, "No Culture", was released on February 10, 2017, with yet another Def Jam Recordings release in the United States.They also recently made a single for Christmas 2022  Their seventh album, "Dance and Cry," was released November 2, 2018. In late 2020, the band's music went viral on TikTok, causing a surge in streams. Their eighth studio album, "Inside", was released on June 25, 2021 on Warner Brothers Music. On January 28, 2022, the band released a deluxe version of "Inside", containing 7 new songs.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP] Mother Love Bone  Mother Love Bone was an American rock band that formed in Seattle, Washington in 1988. The band was active from 1988 to 1990. Frontman Andrew Wood's personality and lyrics helped to catapult the group to the top of the burgeoning late 1980s/early 1990s Seattle music scene. Wood died only days before the scheduled release of the band's debut album, "Apple", thus ending the group's hopes of success. The album was finally released a few months later.  As well as being influential to grunge, they are also considered early pioneers in the alternative metal genre.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP] Mother Night  Mother Night is a novel by American author Kurt Vonnegut, first published in February 1962. The title of the book is taken from Goethe's "Faust" (and ultimately from the Egyptian Goddess Nuit, mother of Osiris, Horus, Isis, Set, and Nephthys, and her counterparts in European religions, such as Skaði).  The novel takes the form of the fictional memoirs of Howard W. Campbell Jr., an American, who moved to Germany in 1923 at age 11, and later became a well-known playwright and Nazi propagandist. The story of the novel is narrated (through the use of metafiction<ref name=":0" />) by Campbell himself, writing his memoirs while awaiting trial for war crimes in an Israeli prison. Howard W. Campbell also appears briefly in Vonnegut's later novel "Slaughterhouse-Five".
What genre is To Mother? [SEP] Mother (Danzig song)  "Mother" is a song by American heavy metal band Danzig. It was originally released in August 1988 as the lead single from their debut album, "Danzig".  In 1993–1994, almost six years after its original release, a remixed version of the song titled "Mother '93" became a hit on radio and earned Buzz Bin rotation on MTV after a music video incorporating live footage was created to promote the band's new EP, "Thrall-Demonsweatlive". During this time the single was reissued by American Recordings, with the remix title updated to "Mother '94" on later versions.  "Mother" remains Danzig's highest charting single. It peaked at number 17 on the "Billboard" Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart and 43 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. In the UK, the song peaked at number 62 on the singles chart.
What genre is To Mother? [SEP] The Mother (2023 film)  The Mother is an upcoming American action drama film directed by Niki Caro with a screenplay by Misha Green, Andrea Berloff and Peter Craig, from a story by Green. The film stars Jennifer Lopez, Joseph Fiennes, Omari Hardwick, and Gael García Bernal.  "The Mother" is scheduled to be released in May 2023, by Netflix.
What genre is Magic? [SEP]  Magic (1996) is a collection of short stories and essays by American writer Isaac Asimov, all within (or concerning, in the latter case) the fantasy genre, collected and released after his death. The first seven stories are part of his Azazel series, while the remainder are three more traditional medieval fantasies and one mystery story from Asimov's Black Widowers series.
What genre is Magic? [SEP]  Magic is a French music magazine which is released on a monthly basis. It was formed out of the ashes of a small fanzine produced by music aficionados from France in 1995. The magazine's target readership is composed of young adults, students and young professionals who are keen to pursue the latest fashionable trend in music (and other forms of culture).
What genre is Magic? [SEP]  Magic 2.0 is a comic fantasy series of books written by Scott Meyer. The series so far consists of six novels, “Off to Be the Wizard”, “Spell or High Water”, “An Unwelcome Quest”, “Fight and Flight”, “Out of Spite, Out of Mind”, and "The Vexed Generation" which were published by publisher 47North. The series follows Martin Banks, a programmer from 2012, who uses a computer file that allows him to alter reality to time travel to medieval England where he joins a community of other computer programmers posing as wizards.
What genre is Magic? [SEP]  Magic is a psychological horror novel written by William Goldman. It was published in the United States in August 1976 by Delacorte Press. In 1978 Richard Attenborough directed a feature film adaptation of the story that starred Anthony Hopkins and Ann-Margret.
What genre is Magic? [SEP]  The company published several original titles in its early years and up to today, continues to sell copies. Frances Marshall was an early originator of publishing books on a single magic-related topic. The Ireland Magic Company published Match-ic (1935) and 12 Tricks with a Borrowed Deck (1940) by American mathematics and science writer Martin Gardner.
What genre is Magic? [SEP] Magic!  Magic! (stylized in all uppercase) is a Canadian reggae fusion band based in Toronto, Ontario. The band is composed of lead vocalist, guitarist/producer Nasri Atweh, guitarist/keyboardist Mark "Pelli" Pellizzer, and bassist Ben Spivak. Active since 2012, the band is signed with Latium, Sony, and RCA Records, releasing their debut studio album "Don't Kill the Magic" in 2014, their second studio album "Primary Colours" in 2016, and their third studio album "Expectations" in 2018. They are best known for their hit single "Rude", which charted at No. 1 in several countries worldwide, including the US and UK.  The band is heavily inspired by the Police and Bob Marley and the Wailers. They are known for having a signature reggae-influenced pop sound.
What genre is Magic? [SEP] Magic realism  Magic realism is a style of literary fiction and art. It paints a realistic view of the world while also adding magical elements, often blurring the lines between fantasy and reality. Magic realism often refers to literature in particular, with magical or supernatural phenomena presented in an otherwise real-world or mundane setting, commonly found in novels and dramatic performances. Despite including certain magic elements, it is generally considered to be a different genre from fantasy because magical realism uses a substantial amount of realistic detail and employs magical elements to make a point about reality, while fantasy stories are often separated from reality. Magical realism is often seen as an amalgamation of real and magical elements that produces a more inclusive writing form than either literary realism or fantasy.<ref name="auto"/>  The term "magic realism" is broadly descriptive rather than critically rigorous, and Matthew Strecher (1999) defines it as "what happens when a highly detailed, realistic setting is invaded by something too strange to believe." The term and its wide definition can often become confused, as many writers are categorized as magical realists. The term was influenced by a German and Italian painting style of the 1920s which were given the same name. Michiko Kakutani writes that "The transactions between the extraordinary and the mundane that occur in so much Latin American fiction are not merely a literary technique, but also a mirror of a reality in which the fantastic is frequently part of everyday life." Magical realism often mixes history and fantasy, as in Salman Rushdie's "Midnight's Children", in which the children born at midnight on August 15, 1947, the moment of India's independence, are telepathically linked.  Irene Guenther (1995) tackles the German roots of the term, and how an earlier magic realist art is related to a later magic realist literature; meanwhile, magical realism is often associated with Latin-American literature, including founders of the genre, particularly the authors Gabriel García Márquez, Isabel Allende, Jorge Luis Borges, Juan Rulfo, Miguel Ángel Asturias, Elena Garro, Mireya Robles, Rómulo Gallegos and Arturo Uslar Pietri. In English literature, its chief exponents include Neil Gaiman, Salman Rushdie, Alice Hoffman, Nick Joaquin, and Nicola Barker. In Bengali literature, prominent writers of magic realism include Nabarun Bhattacharya, Akhteruzzaman Elias, Shahidul Zahir, Jibanananda Das and Syed Waliullah. In Japanese literature, one of the most important authors of this genre is Haruki Murakami. In Kannada literature, the writers Shivaram Karanth and Devanur Mahadeva have infused magical realism in their most prominent works. In Polish literature, magic realism is represented by Olga Tokarczuk, the 2018 Nobel Prize laureate in Literature.
What genre is Magic? [SEP] Magic Tree House  Magic Tree House is an American series of children's books written by the American author Mary Pope Osborne. The original American series was illustrated by Salvatore Murdocca until 2016, after which AG Ford took over . Other illustrators have been used for foreign-language editions.  The series consists of two groups. The first group consists of books 1–28, in which Morgan Le Fay sends Jack and Annie Smith, two normal children who are siblings from the fictional small town of Frog Creek, Pennsylvania, on numerous adventures and missions with a magical tree house. The second group, referred to as the "Magic Tree House: Merlin Missions", begins with book 29, "Christmas in Camelot". In "Merlin Missions", Jack and Annie are given quests by the ancient wizard Merlin the Magician. These books are longer than the previous 28, and some take place in fantasy realms like Camelot. Kathleen and Teddy are two apprentices who befriend Jack and Annie during their adventures, with one of these adventures being to free Kathleen from a spell. The two occasionally join Jack and Annie, and, when they don't, provide them support instead. During "Super Edition #1", Teddy sends them on a mission instead of Morgan or Merlin. The companion "Magic Tree House Fact Trackers" are co-written by Mary Pope Osborne with her husband Will Osborne or her sister Natalie Pope Boyce.  In the beginning, Mary Pope Osborne wrote the books with Morgan sending the children on missions. Then she switched over to them being sent on missions by Merlin. About 10 years later, in 2014, she switched back to writing only the books with Morgan sending them on missions. These books were, again, much shorter. In addition to the books listed below, Mary Pope Osborne appears to still be writing the series, having released "#36 Sunlight on the Snow Leopard" in 2022. .
What genre is Magic? [SEP] Magic System  Magic System is an Ivorian coupé-décalé band from Abidjan. It was founded in 1996 and comprises Asalfo, Goude, Tino, and Manadja.  Magic System's recordings in the Zouglou dance style have featured in the charts throughout Africa, and in France, where the band became very popular modern African artists.
What genre is Magic? [SEP] Magic: The Gathering  Magic: The Gathering (colloquially known as Magic or MTG) is a tabletop and digital collectable card game created by Richard Garfield. Released in 1993 by Wizards of the Coast (now a subsidiary of Hasbro), "Magic" was the first trading card game and had approximately thirty-five million players ,<ref name="UofW"> </ref> and over twenty billion "Magic" cards were produced in the period from 2008 to 2016, during which time it grew in popularity. A player in "Magic" takes the role of a Planeswalker, a powerful wizard who can travel ("walk") between dimensions ("planes") of the Multiverse, doing battle with other players as Planeswalkers by casting spells, using artifacts, and summoning creatures as depicted on individual cards drawn from their individual decks. A player defeats their opponent typically (but not always) by casting spells and attacking with creatures to deal damage to the opponent's "life total," with the objective being to reduce it from 20 to 0. Although the original concept of the game drew heavily from the motifs of traditional fantasy role-playing games such as "Dungeons & Dragons", the gameplay bears little similarity to paper-and-pencil games, while simultaneously having substantially more cards and more complex rules than many other card games.  "Magic" can be played by two or more players, either in person with printed cards or on a computer, smartphone or tablet with virtual cards through the Internet-based software "" or such as "" and "Magic Duels". It can be played in various rule formats, which fall into two categories: "constructed" and "limited". Limited formats involve players building a deck spontaneously out of a pool of random cards with a minimum deck size of 40 cards; in constructed formats, players create decks from cards they own, usually with a minimum of 60 cards per deck.  New cards are released on a regular basis through . Further developments include the Wizards Play Network played at the international level and the worldwide community , as well as a substantial resale market for "Magic" cards. Certain cards can be valuable due to their rarity in production and utility in gameplay, with prices ranging from a few cents to tens of thousands of dollars.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP]  The Harrowing is a horror novel by Alexandra Sokoloff. It was first published in 2006 by St. Martin's Press, and is the author's debut book, following a screenwriting career. According to Sokoloff's website, she was inspired to write the novel because of her experiences teaching to troubled teenagers in the Los Angeles County prison system. The Harrowing was nominated for the Bram Stoker Award for Best First Novel. The story follows a group of five troubled teenagers, all college students, who decide to stay behind in their creepy dorm rather than go to their dysfunctional homes for the Thanksgiving holiday. But after playing around with a Ouija board they realize that there is a presence lurking in the house with them.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP]  The Harrow has placed within the top 10 in the Preditors and Editors Best Fiction Magazines/E-Zines poll every year since 2003. Pieces first published in the magazine have received recognition in several other venues. First-place Harrow contest winner "Harming Obsession" by Bev Vincent received an honorable mention in The Year's Best Fantasy & Horror (16th Ed.); "The Pickup", a short story by Jim Schutte was a 2005 nominee for the Gaylactic Spectrum Award. M. Frost's poem, "Removing the Bloodstain", from the November 2006 issue was reprinted in the March 2007 newsletter from the Horror Writers Association. Well-known authors published in The Harrow include Gemma Files, Peter Crowther and Marlys Pearson. Editor Pagliassotti's fantasy novel, Clockwork Heart, was published by Juno Books in March 2008. Other authors published in The Harrow who also have novels or collections out include Brian Ames and Chris Howard.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP]  The Harrowing of Gwynedd is a historical fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Del Rey Books in 1989. It was the tenth of Kurtz' Deryni novels to be published, and the first book in her fourth Deryni trilogy, The Heirs of Saint Camber. Although the Heirs trilogy was the fourth Deryni series to be published, it is a direct sequel to the second trilogy, The Legends of Camber of Culdi.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP]  Her first novel, The Harrowing, was published by St. Martin's Press in 2006. Her second novel, The Price, was published by St. Martin's in 2007, her third, The Unseen, in 2009, her fourth, "Book of Shadows", in 2010. She is a Bram Stoker and Anthony award nominee and a Thriller award winner, and the co-author of the paranormal mystery romance series "The Keepers". Her short story "The Edge of Seventeen" was the recipient of a 2009 International Thriller Writers Award. She also co-wrote the screenplay for the psychological thriller Cold Kisses, and two books on story structure, "Story Structure" and "Writing Love", based on her Screenwriting Tricks for Authors workshops and blog. She lives in Los Angeles and in Scotland, with her husband, the Scottish crime author Craig Robertson.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP]  Iron Wind in March 2014, and Heavy Fire in September 2014. Since 1998 Pagliassotti has been the editor in chief and publisher of The Harrow and owner of The Harrow Press. The Harrow was a peer reviewed online literary magazine designed to support new writers as they develop their careers. The magazine published two anthologies of horror fiction. Pagliassotti is also a professor in the communication department of California Lutheran University, where xe researches yaoi or "boys' love" fiction (manga, anime, visual novels and dōjinshi) from Japan. In 2009, Pagliassotti was named one of the Year's Best Fantasy writers, qualifying her story "Bookmarked" to be published in the 21st edition of The Year's Best Fantasy & Horror.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP] Harrowing of Hell  In Christian theology, the Harrowing of Hell (, "the descent of Christ into Hell" or Hades) is an Old English and Middle English term referring to the period of time between the Crucifixion of Jesus and his resurrection. In triumphant descent, Christ brought salvation to the souls held captive there since the beginning of the world.   Jesus Christ's descent into the world of the dead is referred to in the Apostles' Creed and the Athanasian Creed (), which state that he "descended into the underworld" (), although neither mention that he liberated the dead. His descent to the underworld is alluded to in the New Testament in , which states that the "good tidings were proclaimed to the dead". The "Catechism of the Catholic Church" notes , which states that "[Christ] descended into the lower parts of the earth", as also supporting this interpretation. These passages in the Bible have given rise to differing interpretations. The Harrowing of Hell is commemorated in the liturgical calendar on Holy Saturday.  According to "The Catholic Encyclopedia", the story first appears clearly in the Gospel of Nicodemus in the section called the Acts of Pilate, which also appears separately at earlier dates within the Acts of Peter and Paul. The descent into Hell had been related in Old English poems connected with the names of Cædmon (e.g. Christ and Satan) and Cynewulf. It is subsequently repeated in Ælfric of Eynsham's homilies , which is the first known inclusion of the word "harrowing". Middle English dramatic literature contains the fullest and most dramatic development of the subject.<ref name=Warren/>  As a subject in Christian art, is also known as the (Greek for "resurrection"), considered a creation of Byzantine culture and first appearing in the West in the early 8th century.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP] The Harrowing of Gwynedd  The Harrowing of Gwynedd is a historical fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Del Rey Books in 1989. It was the tenth of Kurtz' Deryni novels to be published, and the first book in her fourth Deryni trilogy, The Heirs of Saint Camber. Although the "Heirs" trilogy was the fourth Deryni series to be published, it is a direct sequel to the second trilogy, The Legends of Camber of Culdi.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP] The Harrowing of Hell (comic book)  The Harrowing of Hell is a comic book written by Evan Dahm and published by Iron Circus Comics.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP] Harrowing the Dragon  Harrowing the Dragon is a collection of fantasy short stories by Patricia A. McKillip. It was first published in hardcover and ebook by Ace Books in November 2005, and in trade paperback by the same publisher in November 2006. The first British edition was issued in ebook by Gateway/Orion on December 17, 2015.
What genre is The Harrowing? [SEP] The Harrowing (Inside No. 9)  "The Harrowing" is the sixth and final episode of the first series of British dark comedy anthology series "Inside No. 9". It aired on 12 March 2014 on BBC Two. The episode was written by Steve Pemberton and Reece Shearsmith, and stars Shearsmith, Aimee-Ffion Edwards, Helen McCrory, Poppy Rush and Sean Buckley. While comedic in places, "The Harrowing" makes extensive use of gothic horror elements transmuted into a modern context. The plot follows Katy (Edwards), who has been hired to housesit for eccentric siblings Hector (Shearsmith) and Tabitha (McCrory). They rarely leave the house, but have an event to attend. They tell Katy about their bedridden, disabled brother Andras (Buckley), who cannot speak but will ring a bell if he needs assistance. Katy is joined by her friend Shell (Rush) once Hector and Tabitha leave, and, upon hearing Andras's bell, the pair reluctantly head upstairs. The episode takes place in Hector and Tabitha's mansion, which is kept deliberately cold and filled with paintings depicting Hell. The writers experimented with a variety of possible endings, hoping to make the episode's close both interesting and scary.  Critics agreed that the episode was the most gothic and scary of the series, with journalists writing for "The Sunday Times" saying that "The Harrowing" would be best avoided by those of a nervous disposition. Critics writing in the "Metro" felt that the episode was a poor finale for the series, and that the episode's ending was unsatisfying. By contrast, Alex Hoskins, writing for the "Cheddar Valley Gazette", felt the episode's ending was very strong, and Bruce Dessau described "The Harrowing" as an excellent end to the series. On an Empire Online list, "The Harrowing", particularly its final scene, was selected as the 17th best TV moment of the year. The episode was watched by 833,000 people on its first showing, which was 4.7% of the audience.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP]  studio album Yellow was released on 1 April 2020. The album's cover art and track list were unveiled in March 2020. Brymo described Yellow as an album about "love and survival" and said it would be an alternative pop and electronic record. Yellow incorporates elements of sentimental ballad, trap, sophisti-pop, shoegaze, rock, synth-pop and folk. The album's cover art features a rendition of Insight and Frustrations 2020, a painting by Nigerian artist Samuel Olowomeye Ancestor. Brymo revealed on Instagram that he was drawn to the painting after having several conversations with his friends. Nigerian singer Lindsey Abudei is the only artist featured on the album. With the exception of
What genre is Yellow? [SEP]  Yellow Music is a genre of popular music. The term has been used in China and Vietnam to describe types of music that have separate origins.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP]  In 2009, Yellow Bird Project published The Indie Rock Coloring Book, an illustrated tribute to indie rock bands, with a foreword written by Pierre de Reeder of Rilo Kiley and testimonials from Matt Berninger (of The National) and Russell Lissack (of Bloc Party). To promote the book online they created a collaborative group drawing game called 'Color Me Indie'. They also organised 'The Indie Rock Coloring Book Tour' with live shows and coloring events in book stores across San Francisco, New York and Montreal. As a follow up publication, YBP released 'The Indie Rock Poster Book' in 2011. Both books (published by Chronicle Books) are intended to raise
What genre is Yellow? [SEP]  Yellow Music or Yellow Songs  was a label used to describe early generations of Chinese popular music in Shanghai, China during the 1920s to 1940s; the color yellow is associated with eroticism and sex in the country, since 黄, huáng, the Mandarin character for "yellow", also means "erotic". The Communist Party of China saw pop music as sexually indecent and labeled the C-pop genre as such. These restrictions prompted many Shanghai artists to flee to Hong Kong, where it reached its height in the 1950s until the late 1960s, when it was displaced by Mandarin-languaged Taiwanese pop (and later by Cantopop). The term was used continually up to the Cultural Revolution. By the early 1980s, however, Yellow Music could be performed again.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP]  'Yellow' has received positive reviews in both popular and academic circles. Publishers Weekly reviewer Jeff Zaleski comments that while many stories deal with difficult subjects, "Hatred and heartbreak...are mitigated by Lee's cool yet sympathetic eye and frequently dark sense of humor". Kathleen Snodgrass of the Georgia Review finds that many of the stories are driven by a male-female dynamic “in which the men tend to fall for women determined to domesticate and socialize them." She notes that, “Most often, racial differences and tensions are subsumed under a larger question of identity, especially as one’s sense of self changes in a love relationship.”
What genre is Yellow? [SEP] Yellow (Coldplay song)  "Yellow" is a song by the British rock band Coldplay. The band wrote the song and co-produced it with British record producer Ken Nelson for their debut album, "Parachutes" (2000). The song was recorded in March 2000 and released on 26 June that same year as the second UK single from "Parachutes", following "Shiver", and as the lead single in the United States.  "Yellow" reached number four on the UK Singles Chart, giving Coldplay their first top-five hit in the United Kingdom. It was Coldplay's breakthrough hit internationally, reaching number one in Iceland, number five in Australia, number nine in Ireland and number 48 in the United States. Helped by heavy rotation and usage in advertising, the song thrust the band into popularity. "Yellow" has since been covered by various recording artists worldwide, and remains one of the band's most popular songs.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP] Yellow Magic Orchestra  Yellow Magic Orchestra (YMO for short) was a Japanese electronic music band formed in Tokyo in 1978 by Haruomi Hosono (bass, keyboards, vocals), Yukihiro Takahashi (drums, lead vocals) and Ryuichi Sakamoto (keyboards, vocals). The group is considered influential and innovative in the field of popular electronic music. They are credited with playing a key role in the development of several electronic genres, including synthpop, J-pop, electro, and techno, while exploring subversive sociopolitical themes throughout their career.  The three members were veterans of the music industry before coming together as YMO, and were inspired by eclectic sources, including the electronic music of Isao Tomita and Kraftwerk, Japanese traditional music, arcade games, funk music, and the disco productions of Giorgio Moroder. They released the surprise global hit "Computer Game" in 1978, reaching the UK Top 20 and selling 400,000 copies in the US. For their early recordings and performances, the band was often accompanied by programmer Hideki Matsutake.<ref name="sound_147"/> The group released several albums before pausing their activity in 1984. They have briefly reunited several times in subsequent decades.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP] Yellow Claw (DJs)  Yellow Claw is a Dutch DJ and record production duo from Amsterdam consisting of Jim Taihuttu, based in Bali and Nils Rondhuis, based in Amsterdam. The duo's music is a mix of a wide range of genres and often incorporates elements from trap, hip hop, dubstep, hardstyle and moombahton.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP] Giallo  In Italian cinema, Giallo (; plural gialli, from "giallo", Italian for yellow) is a genre of mystery fiction and thrillers that often contains slasher, crime fiction, psychological thriller, psychological horror, sexploitation, and, less frequently, supernatural horror elements.  This particular style of Italian-produced murder mystery horror-thriller film usually blends the atmosphere and suspense of thriller fiction with elements of horror fiction (such as slasher violence) and eroticism (similar to the French "fantastique" genre), and often involves a mysterious killer whose identity is not revealed until the final act of the film. The genre developed in the mid-to-late 1960s, peaked in popularity during the 1970s, and subsequently declined in commercial mainstream filmmaking over the next few decades, though examples continue to be produced. It was a predecessor to, and had significant influence on, the later American slasher film genre.
What genre is Yellow? [SEP] Yellow Submarine (song)  "Yellow Submarine" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1966 album "Revolver". It was also issued on a double A-side single, paired with "Eleanor Rigby". Written as a children's song by Paul McCartney and John Lennon, it was drummer Ringo Starr's vocal spot on the album. The single went to number one on charts in the United Kingdom and several other European countries, and in Australia, Canada and New Zealand. It won an Ivor Novello Award for the highest certified sales of any single written by a British songwriter and issued in the UK in 1966. In the US, the song peaked at number two on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart.  The Beatles recorded "Yellow Submarine" during a period characterised by experimentation in the recording studio. After taping the basic track and vocals in late May 1966, they held a session to overdub nautical sound effects, party ambience and chorus singing, recalling producer George Martin's previous work with members of the Goons. As a novelty song coupled with "Eleanor Rigby", a track devoid of any rock instrumentation, the single marked a radical departure for the group. The song inspired the 1968 animated film "Yellow Submarine" and appeared as the opening track on the accompanying soundtrack album.  In the US, the release of "Yellow Submarine" coincided with the controversies surrounding Lennon's "More popular than Jesus" remarks – which led some radio stations to impose a ban on the Beatles' music – and the band's public opposition to the Vietnam War. The song received several social and political interpretations. It was adopted as an anti-authority statement by the counterculture during Vietnam War demonstrations and was also appropriated in strike action and other forms of protest. Some listeners viewed the song as a code for drugs, particularly the barbiturate Nembutal which was sold in yellow capsules, or as a symbol for escapism. "Yellow Submarine" has continued to be a children's favourite and has frequently been performed by Starr on his tours with the All Starr Band.
What genre is Hara? [SEP]  The soundtrack album of the film has been composed by Jassie Gift, while lyrics have been penned by Jayant Kaikini, Keshavaaditya and Kaviraj. The audio launch of the album took place on 31 December 2013.
What genre is Hara? [SEP]  Tankian has described the album as "the most up-tempo punk rock oriented record that I've written probably since the System days." In the same interview, he also confirmed that a 2013 world tour would likely follow in support of the album. Hara-kiri, also known as seppuku, is a term for the ritual 'honour' suicide of Japanese samurai, with the former term being more common in speech and the latter being more literary, upper-class, and formal. The act involves self-disembowelment with a tantō (a Japanese-style dagger originating in the Heian period), slicing the abdomen from left to right. The album explores ideas of animal suicide.
What genre is Hara? [SEP]  Hara is a Romanian pop-rock band from Cluj-Napoca. Its members during 2000–2002 were: Flavius Buzilă, Mihai Pop, Nicu Lichirie, Tudor Runcanu and Doru Dejeu. Since 2003 the members are: Flavius Buzilă, Mihai Pop, Nicu Lichirie, Marius Astilean and Vasi Nani.
What genre is Hara? [SEP]  Harawi is an ancient traditional genre of Andean music and also indigenous lyric poetry. Harawi was widespread in the Inca Empire and now is especially common in countries that were part of it, mainly: Peru, Ecuador, Bolivia. Typically, harawi is a moody, soulful slow and melodic song or tune played on the quena (flute). The words of harawi speak of love (often unrequited), plight of ordinary peasant, privations of orphans, etc. Melodies are mainly in minor pentatonic scale.
What genre is Hara? [SEP]  The game is combination of visual novel and dungeon crawler. When it’s time for school, the player can talk with classmates while searching for clues and tracking down cursed hanafuda cards. The emotion input system lets the player respond to discussions and bond with sub-characters by selecting a feeling. School exploration is done via a menu.
What genre is Hara? [SEP] Frank O'Hara  Francis Russell "Frank" O'Hara (March 27, 1926 – July 25, 1966) was an American writer, poet, and art critic. A curator at the Museum of Modern Art, O'Hara became prominent in New York City's art world. O'Hara is regarded as a leading figure in the New York School, an informal group of artists, writers, and musicians who drew inspiration from jazz, surrealism, abstract expressionism, action painting, and contemporary avant-garde art movements.  O'Hara's poetry is personal in tone and content, and has been described as sounding "like entries in a diary". Poet and critic Mark Doty has said O'Hara's poetry is "urbane, ironic, sometimes genuinely celebratory and often wildly funny" containing "material and associations alien to academic verse" such as "the camp icons of movie stars of the twenties and thirties, the daily landscape of social activity in Manhattan, jazz music, telephone calls from friends". O'Hara's writing sought to capture in his poetry the immediacy of life, feeling that poetry should be "between two persons instead of two pages."<ref name="OHaraACLSAmericanNatlBio" />  "The Collected Poems of Frank O'Hara" edited by Donald Allen (Knopf, 1971), the first of several posthumous collections, shared the 1972 National Book Award for Poetry. Brad Gooch's "City Poet" is the first substantial biography on the poet.
What genre is Hara? [SEP] John O'Hara  John Henry O'Hara (January 31, 1905 – April 11, 1970) was one of America's most prolific writers of short stories, credited with helping to invent "The New Yorker" magazine short story style. He became a best-selling novelist before the age of 30 with "Appointment in Samarra" and "BUtterfield 8". While O'Hara's legacy as a writer is debated, his champions rank him highly among the under-appreciated and unjustly neglected major American writers of the 20th century. Few college students educated after O'Hara's death in 1970 have discovered him, chiefly because he refused to allow his work to be reprinted in anthologies used to teach literature at the college level.  "O’Hara may not have been the best story writer of the twentieth century, but he is the most addictive," wrote Lorin Stein, editor-in-chief of the "Paris Review", in a 2013 appreciation of O'Hara's work. Stein added, "You can binge on his collections the way some people binge on "Mad Men", and for some of the same reasons. On the topics of class, sex, and alcohol—that is, the topics that mattered to him—his novels amount to a secret history of American life." His work stands out from that of his contemporary authors for its unvarnished realism.  O'Hara achieved substantial commercial success in the years after World War II, when his fiction repeatedly appeared in Publishers Weekly's annual list of the top ten best-selling fiction works in the United States. These best sellers included "A Rage to Live" (1949), "Ten North Frederick" (1955), "From the Terrace" (1959), "Ourselves to Know" (1960), "Sermons and Soda Water" (1960) and "Elizabeth Appleton" (1963). Five of his works were adapted into popular films in the 1950s and 1960s.  Despite the popularity of these books, O'Hara accumulated detractors due to his outsized and easily bruised ego, alcoholic crankiness, long-held resentments and politically conservative views that were unfashionable in literary circles in the 1960s. After O'Hara's death, John Updike, a fan of O'Hara's writing, said that the prolific author "out-produced our capacity for appreciation; maybe now we can settle down and marvel at him all over again."
What genre is Hara? [SEP] Tamiki Hara
What genre is Hara? [SEP] Mary Margaret O'Hara  Mary Margaret O'Hara is a Canadian singer-songwriter, actress and composer. She is best known for the album "Miss America", released in 1988. She released two albums and an EP under her own name, and remains active as a live performer, as a contributor to compilation albums and as a guest collaborator on other artists' albums.
What genre is Hara? [SEP] Goo Hara  Goo Hara (; January 3, 1991 – November 24, 2019), also known mononymously as Hara, was a South Korean pop singer and actress. She was a member of the girl group Kara, and had also appeared in television dramas including "City Hunter" (2011). She made her debut as a soloist in July 2015 with the release of her EP "Alohara (Can You Feel It?)". After Kara disbanded in 2016, she continued her solo career at another agency, KeyEast. Her solo career was interrupted in 2018 after she became embroiled in a legal case with her ex-boyfriend, Choi Jong-Bum, which was initiated when he assaulted Goo and threatened to release their sex video to harm her career. In June 2019, she continued her solo activities in Japan where she was well received by fans. Her last release was a maxi single "Midnight Queen", released on September 19, 2019.  Goo's death, ruled as a possible suicide on November 24, 2019, brought worldwide attention to sexual crimes against women in South Korea, one of which was the usage of molka (spy cameras) to discreetly capture voyeuristic images and videos of women. In response several petitions were submitted to the Blue House. One petition demanded a more severe punishment for filming sexual acts without consent and distributing it, and the other represented a need to revise South Korea's inheritance laws to prevent absent parents from claiming inheritance from their neglected children. The inheritance laws were amended on December 1, 2020, with the bill carrying amendments titled "Goo Hara Act". As the amended law could not be applied retrospectively, Goo's brother Goo Ho-in filed a lawsuit against their mother, who was said to have neglected her parental duties, to prevent her from claiming inheritance from Goo Hara's estate. The court awarded their mother 40% of the estate.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP]  Nightdreams is 1981 pornographic film with strong horror elements directed by Francis Delia, and written by Jerry Stahl and Stephen Sayadian.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP]  In 2017 Tantor Media released ...of Nightmarres in audiobook format, narrated by Liam Gerrard. The title has received critical acclaim and achieved 4.5 star ratings out of 5 on Audible.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP]  The film has received generally positive reviews. It was described by Playboy magazine as “the first avant-garde adult film…Fellini meets Eraserhead,” and by Velvet magazine as “the Citizen Kane of adult films.” Adult Video News, Adam Film World and Hustler all gave it ratings of between four and five stars in their reviews. Adam Film World said, "The film is outstanding for its superb and visually exciting cinematography and extraordinarily imaginative erotic fantasies. Pornographic film historian Jim Holliday called it "the most unusual, unique and innovative adult film yet made" and said Nightdreams "pioneered a whole new subgenre within the industry" within five years of its release due to its "raunchy gritty sexuality…combined with truly new wave sets and the Miami Vice '80s look".
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP]  Weapons at the players disposal include laser guns and flamethrowers. The player also has pets to assist them in tasks. The player encounters large bosses. The game is a side scroller.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP] 1) Nightdreamers (original novella) based on the television series Doctor Who. ; 2) Short stories for UK publication Interzone: "The Indigenes" (IZ 136), "The Volvax Immersion" (IZ 143). ; 3) Articles have been published in the British Fantasy Society magazine Prism.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP] Nightdreamers  Nightdreamers is an original novella written by Tom Arden and based on the long-running British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". It features the Third Doctor and Jo. It was released both as a standard edition hardback and a deluxe edition () featuring a frontispiece by Martin McKenna. Both editions have a foreword by Katy Manning.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP] Tom Arden  David Rain (2 May 1961 – 15 December 2015), known by his pen name Tom Arden, was a British science fiction and fantasy writer. He was born in Australia. His main work is the five volume "Orokon" saga, as well as the novels "Shadow Black", "The Translation of Bastian Test" and the Doctor Who novella "Nightdreamers".  Arden was born in 1961 and grew up in Mount Gambier, South Australia. He wrote his first unpublished novel, "Moon Escape" at the age of seven and later studied English at the University of Adelaide, graduating with First Class Honours. Arden completed his Ph.D. thesis on "Clarissa", the epic tale by 18th-century novelist Samuel Richardson.  In 1990, he moved to the United Kingdom, living in Northern Ireland and England. He lectured in English at Queen's University of Belfast for seven years. Since 2003, he lectured creative writing at Middlesex University, London.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP] Telos Doctor Who novellas  The Telos "Doctor Who" novellas were a series of tie-in novellas based on the long-running BBC science fiction television series "Doctor Who", officially licensed by the BBC and published by Telos Publishing.  Each novella was published in two formats: standard hardback and deluxe hardback (which included a full colour artwork Frontispiece, and was signed and numbered. The cover material also differed from the standard edition). The BBC's license was specifically only to do hardback fiction (since its BBC Books imprint was concurrently publishing its own line of paperback "Doctor Who" novels), although following further negotiations two of the novellas were subsequently re-printed in paperback ("Ghost Ship" and "Foreign Devils"). "Deluxe editions" were also published, which were numbered and autographed by the author, the Frontispiece artist, and the author of the Foreword. (For example, the deluxe edition of "Nightdreamers" was signed by the author (Tom Arden), the illustrator (Martin McKenna), and actress Katy Manning who wrote the foreword and whose character Jo Grant appears in the book.)  "Fallen Gods" won the Aurealis Award for best Australian science fiction novel of 2004.  "The Eye of the Tyger" was also published in a third, very limited edition for "Doctor Who"'s 40th anniversary. This was a special slipcased edition which additionally included three plates of artwork placed throughout the book by Walter Howarth, Andrew Skilleter and Fred Gambino. There were 40 numbered copies only and in addition to being signed by author Paul McAuley, Foreword author Neil Gaiman and Frontispiece artist Jim Burns, were also signed by the additional artists and autographed by actor Paul McGann, who played the 8th Doctor.  Characters from the novella "The Cabinet of Light" also feature in the "Time Hunter" series of novellas by Telos.
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP]
What genre is Nightdreamers? [SEP] Ghost Ship (novella)  Ghost Ship is an original novella written by Keith Topping and based on the long-running British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". It features the Fourth Doctor. It was released both as a standard edition hardback and a deluxe edition () featuring a frontispiece by Dariusz Jasiczak, and a paperback edition (). Both editions have a foreword by Hugh Lamb.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP]  The Suburbs are an alternative punk rock/funk/new wave band from Minneapolis, Minnesota that was popular in the late 1970s and 1980s. The band frequently headlined at Minneapolis's most influential music clubs, including Jay's Longhorn Bar and First Avenue.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP]  The Suburbs were formed in the western suburbs of Minneapolis in 1977 following introductions by Chris Osgood of the Suicide Commandos. Following live performances, they released The Suburbs on the Twin/Tone label (the label's first release) in early 1978. The record was a nine-song 7-inch red vinyl EP. The band also saw two songs, "Urban Guerrillas" and "Ailerons O.K.", included on the compilation Big Hits of Mid-America, Volume Three. Guitarist Bruce C. Allen did the art direction for the compilation. After building a following playing basement parties, the Suburbs had their first major success at influential Minneapolis punk/New Wave nexus Jay's Longhorn Bar; drummer Hugo
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP]  "The Suburbs" is a 9-song EP released by the band The Suburbs. It was the first record released by influential Minneapolis record label Twin/Tone.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP]  The Suburbs is the third studio album by Canadian indie rock band Arcade Fire, released on August 2, 2010. Coinciding with its announcement, the band released a limited edition 12-inch single containing the title track and "Month of May". The album debuted at No. 1 on the Irish Albums Chart, the UK Albums Chart, the US Billboard 200 chart, and the Canadian Albums Chart. It won Album of the Year at the 2011 Grammy Awards, Best International Album at the 2011 BRIT Awards, Album of the Year at the 2011 Juno Awards, and the 2011 Polaris Music Prize for best Canadian album. Two weeks after winning Grammy's Album of the
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP]  The album's lyrical content is inspired by band members Win and William Butler's upbringing in The Woodlands, Texas, a suburb of Houston. According to Win Butler, the album "is neither a love letter to, nor an indictment of, the suburbs – it's a letter from the suburbs". The album was recorded in Win Butler and Régine Chassagne's residence in Montreal, with some parts being recorded at the band's studio in Quebec and in New York City. Win Butler describes the overall sound of The Suburbs as "a mix of Depeche Mode and Neil Young", stating that he wanted the album to sound like "the bands that I heard when I was very young, and wondered what those crazy noises were". It was released by Merge Records in North America and by Mercury Records in the United Kingdom. The band pressed each completed song to a 12″ lacquer, then recorded it back for the digital master of the album. There are eight alternative covers for the CD version of the album.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP] The Suburbs  The Suburbs is the third studio album by Canadian indie rock band Arcade Fire, released on August 2, 2010. Coinciding with its announcement, the band released a limited edition 12-inch single containing the title track and "Month of May". The album debuted at No. 1 on the Irish Albums Chart, the UK Albums Chart, the US "Billboard" 200 chart, and the Canadian Albums Chart. It won Album of the Year at the 2011 Grammy Awards, Best International Album at the 2011 BRIT Awards, Album of the Year at the 2011 Juno Awards, and the 2011 Polaris Music Prize for best Canadian album. Two weeks after winning Grammy's Album of the Year, the album jumped from No. 52 to No. 12 on the "Billboard" 200, the album's highest ranking since August 2010.  Arcade Fire released a deluxe edition CD/DVD of "The Suburbs" on June 27, 2011 (everywhere except the U.S. and Canada). The American and Canadian versions were released on August 2, 2011, to coincide with the original album's anniversary. The new version included two brand new tracks recorded during "The Suburbs" album sessions ("Culture War" and "Speaking in Tongues", the latter featuring David Byrne), an extended version of album track "Wasted Hours", Spike Jonze's short film, "Scenes from the Suburbs", and an 80-page booklet as well as other exclusive content.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP] The Suburbs (band)  The Suburbs are an alternative punk rock/funk/new wave band from Minneapolis, Minnesota that was popular in the late 1970s and 1980s. The band frequently headlined at Minneapolis's most influential music clubs, including Jay's Longhorn Bar and First Avenue.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP] Rockin' the Suburbs (song)  "Rockin' the Suburbs" is a song by Ben Folds on the album of the same name.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP] Rockin' the Suburbs  Rockin' the Suburbs is the debut studio album by American alternative rock singer-songwriter Ben Folds. His first solo album after leaving his band Ben Folds Five, "Rockin' the Suburbs" was recorded in Adelaide, Australia, where Folds was living at the time and was released on the same day as the September 11 attacks.  "Rockin' the Suburbs" is Folds' only single to make "Billboard"'s Modern Rock Tracks chart, peaking there at number 28. The album peaked at number 42 on the "Billboard" 200 chart, and at number 11 on the Top Internet Albums chart. A remake of the title track featuring William Shatner appeared in the soundtrack for the 2006 film "Over the Hedge", which stars Shatner as an opossum named Ozzie.
What genre is The Song of the Suburbs? [SEP] Suburban Lawns  Suburban Lawns were an American post-punk band formed in Long Beach, California in 1978 by CalArts students William "Vex Billingsgate" Ranson and Sue "Su Tissue" McLane. They later recruited Richard "Frankie Ennui" Whitney, Charles "Chuck Roast" Rodriguez, and John "John Gleur" McBurney.
What genre is The Club? [SEP]  The Club is a third-person shooter video game developed by Bizarre Creations and published by Sega. The story of the game centers on The Club, an underground blood sport controlled by a wealthy elite who place their bets on who will survive the gladiatorial-style combat.
What genre is The Club? [SEP]  The Club received positive reviews. Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell complimented it as "a shooter that turns tired genre conventions around with a bullet to the shoulder", but stated that it would be "divisive" due to the game's run and gun mentality, which went against the contemporary trend towards tactical shooters. Bramwell pointed out that The Club "does for the third-person shooter what no one else has even bothered trying to do: moving it closer to the 2D shoot-'em-ups of old in a manner that appeals anew". Andrew Reiner, writing for Game Informer, mentioned Bizarre Creations' background and its influence on The Club: "The speed-first mentality of the racing genre is cleverly infused into the framework of a
What genre is The Club? [SEP]  The band's first album has been described as "a perfect storm of Euro dance rock, indie sophistication and a sprinkling of punk rock’s filth and fury snottiness."
What genre is The Club? [SEP] Genre: Power electronics, noise ; Country: Belgium ; Status: Active ; Time: 1981–present
What genre is The Club? [SEP]  The lead designer of the game was Matt Cavanagh who described the title as "a racing game with guns". At first the game was literally a shooting gallery with limited AI. After 6 months of development a new prototype was created with an emphasis on scoring rather than narrative. The gameplay was designed before any setting and back story was created. Many publishers declined to take on the title before Sega chose to back it. The title was released globally on February 8, 2008. Composer Richard Jacques wrote the score for the single player levels, Chris Chudley from Audioantics wrote the score for the multiplayer levels, while Jesper Kyd scored the main theme.
What genre is The Club? [SEP] Electronic dance music  Electronic dance music (EDM), also known as dance music, club music, or simply dance, is a broad range of percussive electronic music genres made largely for nightclubs, raves, and festivals. It is generally produced for playback by DJs who create seamless selections of tracks, called a DJ mix, by segueing from one recording to another. EDM producers also perform their music live in a concert or festival setting in what is sometimes called a live PA.  In the late 1980s and early 1990s, following the emergence of raving, pirate radio, PartyCrews, underground festivals and an upsurge of interest in club culture, EDM achieved mainstream popularity in Europe. However, rave culture was not as broadly popular in the United States; it was not typically seen outside of the regional scenes in New York City, Florida, the Midwest, and California. Although both electro and Chicago house music were influential both in Europe and the United States, mainstream media outlets and the record industry remained openly hostile to it. There was also a perceived association between EDM and drug culture, which led governments at state and city levels to enact laws and policies intended to halt the spread of rave culture.<ref name=guardian-conquered />  Subsequently, in the new millennium, the popularity of EDM increased globally, particularly in the United States and Australia. By the early 2010s, the term "electronic dance music" and the initialism "EDM" was being pushed by the American music industry and music press in an effort to rebrand American rave culture.
What genre is The Club? [SEP] List of electronic music genres  This is a list of electronic music genres, consisting of genres of electronic music, primarily created with electronic musical instruments or electronic music technology. A distinction has been made between sound produced using electromechanical means and that produced using electronic technology. Examples of electromechanical sound producing devices include the telharmonium, Hammond organ, electric piano, and the electric guitar. Purely electronic sound production can be achieved using devices such as the theremin, sound synthesizer, and computer. Genre, however, is not always dependent on instrumentation.  In its early development, electronic music was associated almost exclusively with Western art music, but from the late 1960s, the availability of affordable music technology—particularly of synthesizers—meant that music produced using electronic means became increasingly common in the popular domains of rock and pop music and classical music, resulting in major electronically based subgenres. After the definition of MIDI in 1982 and the development of digital audio, the creation of purely electronic sounds and their manipulation became much simpler. As a result, synthesizers came to dominate the pop music of the early 1980s. In the late 1980s, electronic dance music (EDM) records made using only electronic instruments became increasingly popular, resulting in a proliferation of electronic genres, subgenres, and scenes. In the new millennium, as computer technology became even more accessible and music software advanced, interacting with music production technology made it possible to create music that has some similarities and some differences to traditional musical performance practices, leading to further developments and rapidly evolving subgenres.
What genre is The Club? [SEP] Fight Club  Fight Club is a 1999 American film directed by David Fincher and starring Brad Pitt, Edward Norton, and Helena Bonham Carter. It is based on the 1996 novel of the same name by Chuck Palahniuk. Norton plays the unnamed narrator, who is discontented with his white-collar job. He forms a "fight club" with soap salesman Tyler Durden (Pitt), and becomes embroiled in a relationship with a mysterious woman, Marla Singer (Bonham Carter).  Palahniuk's novel was optioned by Fox 2000 Pictures producer Laura Ziskin, who hired Jim Uhls to write the film adaptation. Fincher was selected because of his enthusiasm for the story. He developed the script with Uhls and sought screenwriting advice from the cast and others in the film industry. It was filmed in and around Los Angeles from July to December 1998. He and the cast compared the film to "Rebel Without a Cause" (1955) and "The Graduate" (1967), with a theme of conflict between Generation X and the value system of advertising.<ref name=CNN1999 /><ref name=Laist />  Studio executives did not like the film, and they restructured Fincher's intended marketing campaign to try to reduce anticipated losses. "Fight Club" failed to meet the studio's expectations at the box office, and received polarized reactions from critics. It was ranked as one of the most controversial and talked-about films of 1990s. The film later found commercial success with its home video release, establishing "Fight Club" as a cult classic and causing media to revisit the film. In 2009, on the tenth anniversary of the film's release, "The New York Times" dubbed it the "defining cult movie of our time."
What genre is The Club? [SEP] Jersey club  Jersey club (originally called Brick City club  Similarly to its Baltimore influences, Jersey club is an aggressive style defined by its fast, “bouncy” groove at tempos near 130–140 BPM, The style often consists of remixes of rap and R&B tracks.<ref name=run/> It is often accompanied by frenetic, competitive dances which have gained global popularity through viral videos.<ref name=RA/>
What genre is The Club? [SEP] Culture Club  Culture Club are an English pop band formed in London in 1981. The band comprises Boy George (lead vocals), Roy Hay (guitar and keyboards), Mikey Craig (bass guitar) and formerly included Jon Moss (drums and percussion). Emerging in the New Romantic scene, they are considered one of the most representative and influential groups of the 1980s.  Led by singer and frontman Boy George, whose androgynous style of dressing caught the attention of the public and the media in the early 1980s, the band have sold more than 50 million records  including over 6 million BPI certified records sold in the UK and over 7 million RIAA certified records sold in the US. Their hits include "Do You Really Want to Hurt Me", "Time (Clock of the Heart)", "I'll Tumble 4 Ya", "Church of the Poison Mind", "Karma Chameleon", "Victims", "Miss Me Blind", "It's a Miracle", "The War Song", "Move Away", and "I Just Wanna Be Loved". In the UK they amassed twelve Top 40 hit singles between 1982 and 1999, including the number ones "Do You Really Want To Hurt Me" and "Karma Chameleon", the latter being the biggest selling single of 1983 in the UK, and hit number one on the US Hot 100 in 1984. The song "Time (Clock of the Heart)" is included on the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame's list of 500 songs that shaped rock and roll.  Their second album, "Colour by Numbers", sold more than 10 million copies worldwide. It appeared on "Rolling Stone" magazine's list of the 100 Best Albums of the 1980s and is also included in the book "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die". Ten of their singles reached the US Top 40, where they are associated with the Second British Invasion of British new wave groups that became popular in the US due to the cable music channel MTV. Culture Club's music combines British new wave and American soul and pop. It also includes some elements of Jamaican reggae and also other styles such as calypso, salsa, and with "Karma Chameleon", elements of country music.<ref name="Blackwell (1986) 56"/><ref name="Blackwell (1990) 48"/>  Culture Club have sold more than 50 million records worldwide, including 7 million records in the United States. In 1984, Culture Club won Brit Awards for Best British Group, Best British Single ("Karma Chameleon"), and the Grammy Award for Best New Artist. They were nominated the same year for the Grammy Award for Pop Vocal by Group or Duo. The band were also nominated for a Canadian Juno Award for International Album of the Year. In January 1985, Culture Club were nominated for an American Music Award for Favorite Pop/Rock Band/Duo/Group Video Artist, and in September 1985, they were nominated for two MTV Video Music Awards for Best Special Effects and Best Art Direction for their video "It's a Miracle". In 1987, they received another nomination for an American Music Award for Favorite Pop/Rock Band/Duo/Group Video Artist.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP]  Reservoir Pups (also known as Running with the Reservoir Pups) is the first novel of the Eddie & the Gang with No Name trilogy by Northern Irish author, Colin Bateman, published on 13 November 2003 through Hodder Children's Books. It is Bateman's first young adult novel.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP] "No Name" is stylized in lowercase as "no name" ; "Blaxploitation" contains a sample from the 1973 film The Spook Who Sat By the Door Track list adapted from Noname's Twitter. Notes
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP]  The Friends of Eddie Coyle is a 1973 American neo-noir crime film starring Robert Mitchum and Peter Boyle and directed by Peter Yates. The screenplay by Paul Monash was adapted from the 1970 novel The Friends of Eddie Coyle by George V. Higgins. The film tells the story of Eddie Coyle (Mitchum), a small-time career hoodlum in the Irish Mob in Boston, Massachusetts. The title is purely ironic: Eddie has no friends. While critical reception was positive, with particular praise for Mitchum's performance, the movie was not popular with filmgoers and failed to rank in the top 30 either in 1973 (when it was released mid-year) or 1974, and failed to recoup its budget in combined box office.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP]  and Charles Saggau ; "No Love, No Nothin" ; Music by Harry Warren ; Lyrics by Leo Robin ; Arranged by Benny Carter ; Sung by Alice Faye ; Danced by Tony De Marco and Sheila Ryan ; "(I've Got a Gal in) Kalamazoo" ; Music by Harry Warren ; Lyrics by Mack Gordon ; Played by Benny Goodman and his band ; "Paducah" ; Music by Harry Warren ; Lyrics by Leo Robin ; Played by Benny Goodman and His Orchestra ; Sung by Benny Goodman and Carmen Miranda ; Danced by Carmen Miranda and Tony De Marco ; "The Polka Dot Polka" ;
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP]  shown in Brazil on its initial release. In the US, the censors dictated that the chorus girls must hold the bananas at the waist and not at the hip. Alice Faye sings "A Journey to a Star," "No Love, No Nothin'," and the surreal finale "The Polka-Dot Polka." The film was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Art Direction-Interior Decoration, Color (James Basevi, Joseph C. Wright, Thomas Little). It was the last musical Faye made as a Hollywood superstar. She was pregnant with her second daughter during filming. In 2014, The Gang's All Here was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP]
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP] Bring Me the Head of Oliver Plunkett  Bring Me the Head of Oliver Plunkett is the second novel of the "Eddie & the Gang with No Name" trilogy by Northern Irish author, Colin Bateman, published on 13 May 2004 through Hodder Children's Books.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP] Reservoir Pups  Reservoir Pups (also known as Running with the Reservoir Pups) is the first novel of the "Eddie & the Gang with No Name" trilogy by Northern Irish author, Colin Bateman, published on 13 November 2003 through Hodder Children's Books. It is Bateman's first young adult novel.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP] The Doberman Gang  The Doberman Gang is a 1972 film about a talented animal trainer who prepares a pack of six Doberman Pinschers to commit a bank robbery at the behest of a ruthless heist planner. The six dogs were all named after famous bank robbers. Their names were Dillinger (John Dillinger), Bonnie (Bonnie Parker), Clyde (Clyde Barrow), Pretty Boy Floyd, Baby Face Nelson, and Ma Barker.  The film's score was the first to be composed by Alan Silvestri, who found later success with the soundtracks for more notable films such as the "Back to the Future" trilogy and "Forrest Gump".  The film was shot completely on location in Simi Valley, California.
What genre is Eddie & the Gang with No Name? [SEP] Our Gang  Our Gang (also known as The Little Rascals or Hal Roach's Rascals) is an American series of comedy short films chronicling a group of poor neighborhood children and their adventures. Created by film producer Hal Roach, also the producer of the Laurel and Hardy films, "Our Gang" shorts were produced from 1922 to 1944, spanning the silent film and early sound film periods of American cinema. "Our Gang" is noted for showing children behaving in a relatively natural way; Roach and original director Robert F. McGowan worked to film the unaffected, raw nuances apparent in regular children, rather than have them imitate adult acting styles. The series also broke new ground by portraying white and black children interacting as equals during the Jim Crow era of racial segregation in the United States.  The franchise began in 1922 as a silent short subject series produced by the Roach studio and released by Pathé Exchange. Roach changed distributors from Pathé to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM) in 1927, and the series entered its most popular period after converting to sound in 1929. Production continued at Roach until 1938, when the "Our Gang" production unit was sold to MGM, where production continued until 1944. Across 220 short films and a feature-film spin-off, "General Spanky", the "Our Gang" series featured over 41 child actors as regular members of its cast. As MGM retained the rights to the "Our Gang" trademark after buying the series, the Roach-produced sound "Our Gang" films were re-released to theaters and syndicated for television under the title "The Little Rascals". Roach's "The Little Rascals" package, currently owned by CBS Media Ventures, and MGM's "Our Gang" package, currently owned by Turner Entertainment and distributed by Warner Bros., have since remained in syndication. New productions based on the shorts have been made over the years, including a 1994 feature film, "The Little Rascals", released by Universal Pictures.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]  "Ikuze! Kaitō Shōjo" (行くぜっ!怪盗少女) is the debut major-label single by the Japanese girl group Momoiro Clover, released in Japan through Universal J on May 5, 2010. It reached third place on the Oricon charts. The dance routine for the song incorporates intense acrobatics, including a "shrimp jump", cartwheels and a leapfrog. The track appears in Japanese game, Just Dance Wii U and the only song in Just Dance Wii U which features the original member Akari Hayami.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]  A three-volume novel series, titled Nisekoi: Urabana, (ニセコイ　ウラバナ) was published by Shueisha under their Jump j-Books imprint. The novels are written by Hajime Tanaka and illustrated by Naoshi Komi. The first volume was published on June 4, 2013. It has stories concerning the main characters such as Kosaki sprouting cat ears from a virus, and Marika as a hit-woman. The second volume was released on December 28, 2013 with stories about the play and side stories such as the gang working at a maid café. The third volume was released on April 3, 2015. A vomic (voice comic) was released by Shonen Jump published in 3 videos covering chapter one. The first video was first released on September 6, 2013, and features
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]  In May 2021, KonoSuba was one of five isekai-oriented anime titles (along with Zombie Land Saga, That Time I Got Reincarnated as a Slime, Princess Lover!, and Nekopara) that were given a limited ban by the Russian government for their depiction of reincarnation, which was thought to encourage suicide by lawmakers.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]  It was released in 3 editions, Type-A, Type-B and Type-C. Type-A includes two audio CDs and a DVD with 60 minutes live music video Nogizaka46 Summer National Tour 2013 Final! at Yoyogi National 1st Gymnasium. Type-B contains two audio CDs. Type-C has just one CD that includes the title song from 1st to 10th single and four new songs. The album cover photo was taken at Tokyo Metro Nogizaka Station.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]  Aishiteruze Baby is a shōjo manga series that revolves around the life of Kippei, a popular high-school playboy who flirts with any girl he sees, without thinking about their feelings. His life is turned upside down when one day his aunt abandons his five-year-old cousin Yuzuyu at his house. Kippei is assigned the task of taking care of Yuzuyu for the time being, and he must learn how to become the "mother" she needs. As Kippei learns how to care for Yuzuyu, he also learns to care for Kokoro, a quiet girl at his school, who helps him out. In Japanese, aishiteru ze (愛してるぜ) is a casual, masculine way of saying "I love you" (see Gender differences in spoken Japanese).
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP] Koko ni Iruzee!
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP] No. 5 (Morning Musume album)  No. 5 (Number 5) is the fifth album from the J-pop idol group Morning Musume, released on March 26, 2003.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP] Iroppoi Jirettai  The limited edition of this single came with special packaging and also contained five photocards. The Single V was released on August 3, 2005, and sold a total of 22,606 copies. It reached number four on the Oricon Charts.
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP]
What genre is Koko ni Iruzee!? [SEP] Nozomi Tsuji  , known professionally by her birth name (born June 17, 1987) is a Japanese media personality, singer, and blogger. In 2000, she began her career as a singer for Japanese girl band Morning Musume. Tsuji later found success with related groups Mini Moni and W. She has participated in the shuffle groups 10-nin Matsuri, Odoru 11, and 11Water, H.P. All Stars, as well as being a member of the Morning Musume splinter group Morning Musume Otomegumi
What genre is Cut? [SEP]  In the Cut is a 1995 thriller novel by American writer Susanna Moore. The plot follows an English professor at New York University who becomes entangled in a sexual relationship with a detective investigating a series of gruesome murders in her neighborhood. The novel was adapted into a feature film of the same name in 2003 by director Jane Campion.
What genre is Cut? [SEP]  Cut is the third Mandarin solo mini album by Aaron Yan of Taiwanese Mandopop quartet boy band Fahrenheit. It was released by HIM International Music on June 27, 2014. The EP consists of six songs performed by Yan.
What genre is Cut? [SEP]  In the Cut is a 2003 psychological thriller film written and directed by Jane Campion and starring Meg Ryan, Mark Ruffalo, and Jennifer Jason Leigh. Campion's screenplay is an adaptation of the novel of the same name by Susanna Moore. The film focuses on an English teacher who becomes personally entangled with a detective investigating a series of gruesome murders in her Manhattan neighborhood. The film received a limited release on October 22, 2003 in the United States, and was subsequently given a wide release on Halloween that year in the United States and United Kingdom. The film received mixed reviews from critics upon release. Negative reviews were critical of the story and narrative structure, while positive reviews praised the acting and Campion’s visuals. In recent years and in the wake of the Me Too movement, the film has undergone a reappraisal for its subversion of the male gaze and other common movie tropes.
What genre is Cut? [SEP]  In October 1992 Bevan Hannan of The Canberra Times declared "pub favourites Hunters & Collectors have definitely gone back to taws with" Cut by "relying heavily on the percussion influence which dominated their formative years". Allmusic's Mike DeGagne felt it was "brimming with high energy, explosive singing, and contagious hooks, making it one of this band's finest offerings". While the "bleakness in some of their songs is elevated by the instruments so that the conceptual message is understood, without the dismalness, making their music accessible". The band were nominated for Best Group at the 1992 ARIA Music Awards and Album of the Year for Cut in the following year.
What genre is Cut? [SEP]  Cut is the second studio album by C-Tec, released on 15 February 2000 by Synthetic Symphony. On 5 October 2018 the album was reissued as a music download with an additional track titled "Until We Disappear" and written by Marc Heal.
What genre is Cut? [SEP] Cut Copy  Cut Copy (sometimes stylised as Cut/Copy) are an Australian synth-pop band formed in 2001 by Dan Whitford (vocals, keyboards and guitar). Originally a home-recording project, the band now includes Tim Hoey (guitars), Ben Browning (bass guitar), and Mitchell Scott (drums).  The band achieved breakthrough success in 2008 with their second album, "In Ghost Colours", which included well-known singles "Lights & Music" and "Hearts on Fire".
What genre is Cut? [SEP] Cut Chemist  Lucas MacFadden (born October 4, 1972), better known as Cut Chemist, is an American DJ and record producer. He is a former member of Jurassic 5 and Ozomatli. He has collaborated with DJ Shadow on a number of projects.
What genre is Cut? [SEP] Cut Snake (band)  Cut Snake is Australian DJ Leigh "Sedz" Sedley. Cut Snake was originally a duo which also consisted of Paul "Fish" Fisher, but in mid-2018 Sedley announced that Cut Snake was now a solo act. Together the two chose the name based on the Australian expression "mad as a cut snake", meaning "crazy".
What genre is Cut? [SEP] Cut Worms  Cut Worms is the music project of Ohio-born, Brooklyn-based singer, songwriter, and musician Max Clarke.
What genre is Cut? [SEP] The First Cut Is the Deepest  "The First Cut Is the Deepest" is a 1967 song written by British singer-songwriter Cat Stevens, originally released by P. P. Arnold in May 1967. Stevens's own version originally appeared on his album "New Masters" in December 1967.  The song has been widely recorded and has become a hit single for seven different artists: P. P. Arnold (1967), Keith Hampshire (1973), Rod Stewart (1977), Dawn Penn (1994), Papa Dee (1995) and Sheryl Crow (2003).
What genre is Stories? [SEP]  Boyd has written on science fiction, giving a definition of the genre as "storytelling, usually imaginative as distinct from realistic fiction, which poses the effects of current or extrapolated scientific discoveries, or a single discovery, on the behavior of individuals [or] society."
What genre is Stories? [SEP]  One Story is a literary magazine which publishes 12 issues a year, each issue containing a single short story. The magazine was founded in 2002 by writers Hannah Tinti and Maribeth Batcha.
What genre is Stories? [SEP] Fiction Non-Fiction Autobiography The film consists of two stories that are unrelated and have different actors, titled "Fiction" and "Non-Fiction". College and high school serve as the backdrop for these two stories about dysfunction and personal turmoil. "Fiction", starring Selma Blair, "Vi", is about a group of college students in a creative writing class taught by a professor (Robert Wisdom). "Non-Fiction", starring Paul Giamatti and John Goodman, is about the filming of a dysfunctional suburban New Jersey family as their teenage son (Mark Webber) goes through the college application process, and faces the trials and tribulations of late teenage years. The original version of the film featured a third story entitled "Autobiography", concerning, among other things, a closeted football player (James Van Der Beek). The main character has an explicit sex scene with a male partner (Steven Rosen); the entire story was cut from the final version.
What genre is Stories? [SEP]  Stories was an American early 1970s rock and pop music band based in New York. The band consisted of keyboardist Michael Brown, bassist/vocalist Ian Lloyd, guitarist Steve Love, and drummer Bryan Madey, and had a Number 1 hit with a cover of Hot Chocolate's "Brother Louie."
What genre is Stories? [SEP] Picture books, including concept books that teach the alphabet or counting for example, pattern books, and wordless books ; Traditional literature, including folktales, which convey the legends, customs, superstitions, and beliefs of people in previous civilizations. This genre can be further broken into sub genres: myths, fables, legends, and fairy tales ; Fiction, including fantasy, realistic fiction, mystery, science fiction and historical fiction ; Non-fiction which can include narrative non-fiction which is a true story written in the style of a novel ; Biography and autobiography ; Poetry and verse which can include novels written entirely in verse. A literary genre is a category of literary compositions. Genres may be determined by technique, tone, content, or length. According to Anderson, there are six categories of children's literature (with some significant subgenres):
What genre is Stories? [SEP] List of writing genres  Writing genres (more commonly known as literary genres) are categories that distinguish literature (including works of prose, poetry, drama, hybrid forms, etc.) based on some set of stylistic criteria. Sharing literary conventions, they typically consist of similarities in theme/topic, style, tropes, and storytelling devices; common settings and character types; and/or formulaic patterns of character interactions and events, and an overall predictable form.  A literary genre may fall under either one of two categories: (a) a work of fiction, involving non-factual descriptions and events invented by the author; or (b) a work of nonfiction, in which descriptions and events are understood to be factual. In literature, a work of fiction can refer to a short story, novella, and novel, the latter being the longest form of literary prose. Every work of fiction falls into a literary subgenre, each with its own style, tone, and storytelling devices.  Moreover, these genres are formed by shared literary conventions that change over time as new genres emerge while others fade. Accordingly, they are often defined by the cultural expectations and needs of a particular historical and, cultural moment or place.  According to Alastair Fowler, the following elements can be used to define genres: organizational features (chapters, acts, scenes, stanzas); length; mood; style; the reader's role (e.g., in mystery works, readers are expected to interpret evidence); and the author's reason for writing (an epithalamion is a poem composed for marriage).
What genre is Stories? [SEP] List of genres  This is a list of genres of literature and entertainment (film, television, music, and video games), excluding .   "Genre" is the term for any category of creative work, which includes literature and other forms of art or entertainment (e.g. music)—whether written or spoken, audio or visual—based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.
What genre is Stories? [SEP] Horror fiction  Horror is a genre of fiction which is intended to frighten, scare, or disgust. Horror is often divided into the sub-genres of psychological horror and supernatural horror, which is in the realm of speculative fiction. Literary historian J. A. Cuddon, in 1984, defined the horror story as "a piece of fiction in prose of variable length... which shocks, or even frightens the reader, or perhaps induces a feeling of repulsion or loathing". Horror intends to create an eerie and frightening atmosphere for the reader. Often the central menace of a work of horror fiction can be interpreted as a metaphor for larger fears of a society.  Prevalent elements of the genre include ghosts, demons, vampires, werewolves, ghouls, the Devil, witches, monsters, extraterrestrials, dystopian and post-apocalyptic worlds, serial killers, cannibalism, cults, dark magic, satanism, the macabre, gore and torture.
What genre is Stories? [SEP] Wuxia  The word "" is a compound composed of the elements (, literally "martial", "military", or "armed") and (, literally "chivalrous", "vigilante" or "hero"). A martial artist who follows the code of is often referred to as a (, literally "follower of ") or (, literally "wandering "). In some translations, the martial artist is referred to as a "swordsman" or "swordswoman" even though they may not necessarily wield a sword.  The heroes in wuxia fiction typically do not serve a lord, wield military power, or belong to the aristocratic class. They often originate from the lower social classes of ancient Chinese society. A code of chivalry usually requires wuxia heroes to right and redress wrongs, fight for righteousness, remove oppressors, and bring retribution for past misdeeds. Chinese traditions can be compared to martial codes from other cultures, such as the Japanese samurai .
What genre is Stories? [SEP] Bildungsroman  In literary criticism, a Bildungsroman (, plural Bildungsromane, ) is a literary genre that focuses on the psychological and moral growth of the protagonist from childhood to adulthood (coming of age), in which character change is important. The term comes from the German words ("education", alternatively "forming") and ("novel").
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP]  Most of Me was a nominee for the Stephen Leacock Memorial Medal for Humour in June 2012, for "the best in Canadian humour writing". The book also received shortlist recognition for the 2012 Edna Staebler Award for Creative Non-Fiction.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP]  The Best of Me is an American romance novel, written by Nicholas Sparks.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP]  Most of Me: Surviving My Medical Meltdown is a non-fiction memoir, written by Canadian writer Robyn Michele Levy, first published in September 2011 by Greystone Books. In the book, the author chronicles her plight from symptoms, to medical diagnosis, and coping with simultaneous illnesses.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP]  The Best of Me was ranked #2 in the Top 10 overall from Publishers Weekly.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP]  On June 27, 2014, it was announced that composer Aaron Zigman would be scoring the music for the film.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP] Kiss Me More  "Kiss Me More" is a song by American rapper and singer Doja Cat featuring fellow American singer SZA from the former's third studio album "Planet Her" (2021). The song was released on April 9, 2021 as its lead single through Kemosabe and RCA Records. It was written by the artists alongside Stephen Kipner, Terry Shaddick, Carter Lang, and Yeti Beats, with the latter serving as producer along with Rogét Chahayed and additional production from Lang and Tizhimself. It has been described as a disco-influenced pop song.  As it interpolates the chorus from English-Australian singer Olivia Newton-John's 1981 single "Physical", additional co-writing credits on the track go to Steve Kipner and Terry Shaddick. "Kiss Me More" became a number-one song in New Zealand, Mexico, Malaysia and Singapore, and reached the top-five in eighteen countries including Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States. It is the longest running all-female top 10 hit in the latter's history. The song won a Grammy Award for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance, becoming both Doja and SZA's first Grammy wins. It was also nominated for Record of the Year and Song of the Year.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP] List of genres  This is a list of genres of literature and entertainment (film, television, music, and video games), excluding .   "Genre" is the term for any category of creative work, which includes literature and other forms of art or entertainment (e.g. music)—whether written or spoken, audio or visual—based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP] Soul music  Soul music is a popular music genre that originated in the African American community throughout the United States in the late 1950s and early 1960s. It has its roots in African-American gospel music and rhythm and blues. Soul music became popular for dancing and listening, where U.S. record labels such as Motown, Atlantic and Stax were influential during the Civil Rights Movement. Soul also became popular around the world, directly influencing rock music and the music of Africa. It also had a resurgence with artists like Erykah Badu under the genre neo-soul.  Catchy rhythms, stressed by handclaps and extemporaneous body moves, are an important feature of soul music. Other characteristics are a call and response between the lead vocalist and the chorus and an especially tense vocal sound. Soul music reflects the African-American identity, and it stresses the importance of an African-American culture. The new-found African-American consciousness led to new styles of music that boasted pride in being black, and being such a creative genre of music, it emerged from the power struggle to increase black Americans' awareness of their African ancestry. Soul music also combines different elements of music which includes gospel music, rhythm and blues and jazz.   Soul music dominated the U.S. R&B chart in the 1960s, and many recordings crossed over into the pop charts in the U.S., Britain, and elsewhere. By 1968, the soul music genre had begun to splinter. Some soul artists developed funk music, while other singers and groups developed slicker, more sophisticated, and in some cases more politically conscious varieties. By the early 1970s, soul music had been influenced by psychedelic and progressive rock, among other genres, leading to psychedelic and progressive soul. The United States saw the development of neo soul around 1994. There are also several other subgenres and offshoots of soul music.  The key subgenres of soul include the Motown style, a more pop-friendly and rhythmic style; "deep soul" and "southern soul", driving, energetic soul styles combining R&B with southern gospel music sounds; Memphis soul, a shimmering, sultry style; New Orleans soul, which came out of the rhythm and blues style; Chicago soul, a lighter gospel-influenced sound; Philadelphia soul, a lush orchestral sound with doo-wop-inspired vocals; as well as psychedelic soul, a blend of psychedelic rock and soul music.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP] Bring Me the Horizon  Bring Me the Horizon (often abbreviated as BMTH) are a British rock band formed in Sheffield in 2004. The group consists of lead vocalist Oliver Sykes, guitarist Lee Malia, bassist Matt Kean, drummer Matt Nicholls and keyboardist Jordan Fish. They are signed to RCA Records globally and Columbia Records exclusively in the United States.  The band released their debut album "Count Your Blessings" in 2006. Upon release, the album's deathcore sound polarised listeners, and was met with critical disdain. The band began to break away from this sound with "Suicide Season" (2008), which was a creative, critical and commercial turning point for the band. Bring Me the Horizon released their third album, "There Is a Hell Believe Me I've Seen It. There Is a Heaven Let's Keep It a Secret.", in 2010, propelling them to greater international fame, whilst incorporating influences from classical music, electronica and pop. Their major label debut, "Sempiternal" (2013) achieved Gold certification in Australia (35,000) and Silver in the United Kingdom (60,000). "That's the Spirit" (2015) debuted at number two in the UK Albums Chart and the US "Billboard" 200. Their sixth studio album "Amo" (2019) became their first UK chart topper. The same year, the band also put out the commercial release, "Music to Listen To..." (2019). The following year, the band released "" (2020), the first in a planned series of four projects under the "Post Human" name. The band have also released two extended plays and two live albums. They have received four "Kerrang!" Awards, including two for Best British Band and one for Best Live Band, and have been nominated for two Grammy Awards. The band has sold over 4 million records worldwide. They are best well known for their songs, "Can You Feel My Heart", "Throne", "Drown, "Mantra" and "Parasite Eve".  The style of their early work, including their debut album "Count Your Blessings", has been described primarily as deathcore, but over the course of several albums, the band has shifted its style and moved in a more melody-oriented direction by combining their approach to metalcore with elements of electronica, pop and hip hop.
What genre is Most of Me? [SEP] Wake Me Up (Avicii song)  "Wake Me Up" is a song by Swedish DJ and record producer Avicii, released as the lead single from his debut studio album "True", released on CD by PRMD Music and Island Records on 17 June 2013. "Wake Me Up" was written by Avicii, Mike Einziger, and American soul singer Aloe Blacc. Blacc also provides vocals for the track and Mike Einziger of Incubus provides acoustic guitar. Peter Dyer also provides keyboard on the song. Avicii introduced "Wake Me Up!" for the first time live on stage at the Ultra Music Festival in Miami. The experimental rendering (it was accompanied by a live band with instruments and vocalists, including Blacc, Einziger and Incubus members Ben Kenney on bass and José Pasillas on drums) reportedly confused and angered a section of the electronic dance festival community. Subsequently, Avicii achieved critical and commercial success with the release of the single worldwide. Avicii's "Wake Me Up" has been named as the highest charting dance track of the decade (2010-2019), sitting at No. 13 in the 100-strong list from the official UK Singles Chart. It is the only song to crack the "Billboard" Decade-End without making the top 3 during any week.  "Wake Me Up" reached number one in much of Europe and charted well in various countries. The song has been described as a "summer anthem" by "Variance Magazine" and, throughout the 2013 festival season, Avicii included it as part of the opening or closing sequence of his sets at EDC Las Vegas, EDC London, Tomorrowland, Creamfields, Electric Zoo and the iTunes Festival. Due to the success of the song, Blacc later released an acoustic version of "Wake Me Up" in his solo EP "Wake Me Up". It was also released as a promotional stand-alone single on Interscope Records, made available online for downloads via iTunes. A separate music video was also made. The Blacc single also charted on various charts.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP]  I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (Ich hab' mein Herz in Heidelberg verloren) is a 1952 West German romantic musical film directed by Ernst Neubach and starring Eva Probst, Adrian Hoven and Paul Hörbiger. The film takes its title from the popular song I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg, whose lyrics Neubach had co-written in the 1920s. It was part of a strong trend towards heimatfilm productions set in romanticised Southern Germany, Austria or Switzeland. It premiered in Heidelberg on 29 October 1952. Although they share the same title, the film is not a remake of I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg from 1926. It was made at the Spandau Studios in Berlin with location shooting at a variety of places included Cuxhaven, Wiesbaden and Heidelberg itself.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP]  I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (German: Ich hab mein Herz in Heidelberg verloren) is a 1926 German silent film directed by Arthur Bergen and starring Emil Höfer, Gertrud de Lalsky and Werner Fuetterer. The title alludes to the popular 1925 song I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg composed by Fred Raymond with lyrics by Fritz Löhner-Beda and Ernst Neubach. The film taps into the nostalgic reputation of Old Heidelberg.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP]  "I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg" (Ich hab' mein Herz in Heidelberg verloren) is a German song composed in 1925 by Fred Raymond with lyrics by Fritz Löhner-Beda and Ernst Neubach. The song was an immediate popular hit, and in 1927 Raymond included it in a musical of the same name. Two films, released in 1926 and in 1952, take their titles from the song. It remains the theme song of Heidelberg. It was recorded in Britain by the duo Bob and Alf Pearson. The English-language lyrics used in The Student's Romance (1935) are by Harry S. Pepper.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP]  The 1925 song "I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg" composed by Fred Raymond was a major hit and inspired a stage musical and two films. It remains the theme song of Heidelberg.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (1926, Arthur Bergen) ; Mein Heidelberg, Ich kann dich nicht vergessen (1927, James Bauer) ; In einer kleinen Konditorei (1930, Robert Wohlmuth) ; Nur am Rhein (1930, Max Mack) ; Una Notte con te (1932, Ferruccio Biancini) ; Das Glück wohnt nebenan (1939, Hubert Marischka) ; Mask in Blue (1943, Paul Martin) ; ...und die Musik spielt dazu (1943, Carl Boese) ; Lascia cantare il cuore (1943, Roberto Savarese) ; Saison in Salzburg (1952, Ernst Marischka) ; I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (1952, Ernst Neubach) ; Mask in Blue (1953, Georg Jacoby) ; Prosecutor Corda (1953, Karl Ritter) ; Ball der Nationen (1954, Karl Ritter) ; Die Perle von Tokay (1954, Hubert Marischka) ; Saison in Salzburg (1961, Franz Josef Gottlieb) With year and director:
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (song)  "I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg" () is a German song composed in 1925 by Fred Raymond with lyrics by Fritz Löhner-Beda and Ernst Neubach. The song was an immediate popular hit, and in 1927 Raymond included it in a musical of the same name. Two films, released in 1926 and in 1952, take their titles from the song. It remains the theme song of Heidelberg. It was recorded in Britain by the duo Bob and Alf Pearson.  The English-language lyrics used in "The Student's Romance" (1935) are by Harry S. Pepper.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (1952 film)  I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg () is a 1952 West German romantic musical film directed by Ernst Neubach and starring Eva Probst, Adrian Hoven and Paul Hörbiger. The film takes its title from the popular song "I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg", whose lyrics Neubach had co-written in the 1920s. It was part of a strong trend towards heimatfilm productions set in romanticised Southern Germany, Austria or Switzerland. It premiered in Heidelberg on 29 October 1952.  Although they share the same title, the film is not a remake of I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg from 1926. It was made at the Spandau Studios in Berlin with location shooting at a variety of places included Cuxhaven, Wiesbaden and Heidelberg itself.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] Heidelberg  Heidelberg (; Palatine German: "Heidlberg") is a city in the German state of Baden-Württemberg, situated on the river Neckar in south-west Germany. As of the 2016 census, its population was 159,914, of which roughly a quarter consisted of students.  Located about south of Frankfurt, Heidelberg is the fifth-largest city in Baden-Württemberg. Heidelberg is part of the densely populated Rhine-Neckar Metropolitan Region.  Heidelberg University, founded in 1386, is Germany's oldest and one of Europe's most reputable universities. Heidelberg is a scientific hub in Germany and home to several internationally renowned research facilities adjacent to its university, including the European Molecular Biology Laboratory and four Max Planck Institutes. The city has also been a hub for the arts, especially literature, throughout the centuries, and it was designated a "City of Literature" by the UNESCO Creative Cities Network.  Heidelberg was a seat of government of the former Electorate of the Palatinate and is a popular tourist destination due to its romantic cityscape, including Heidelberg Castle, the Philosophers' Walk, and the Baroque old town.
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg  I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg (German:Ich hab mein Herz in Heidelberg verloren) may refer to:
What genre is I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg? [SEP] I Lost My Heart on a Bus  I Lost My Heart on a Bus (German: Ich hab mein Herz im Autobus verloren) is a 1929 German silent comedy film directed by Carlo Campogalliani and Domenico Gambino and starring Domenico Gambino, Truus Van Aalten and Lydia Potechina. The title is a reference to a popular song "I Lost My Heart in Heidelberg". It was made in Italy.
What genre is VS? [SEP]  VS (VS バーサス) is a Japanese manga written and illustrated by Keiko Yamada. It was serialized in Akita Shoten's shōjo magazine (aimed at teenage girls) Princess Comics. The individual chapters were released in 7 tankōbon volumes between June 1999 and December 24, 2001. The series is licensed in North America by CMX, which released the manga's 7 tankōbon volumes between April 1, 2006 and October 10, 2007. The story follows violinist, Reiji Saioin, as he strives to win the next Japanese National Music Contest with the help of his personal teacher, Mitsuko Hane, and his friends, Nachi Meiya and Aoi Kenzaki. Impeding his goal is Bartholomew Asakura, who ruined Hane's arm in the past, and his growing feelings for his teacher.
What genre is VS? [SEP]  "VS" is the debut single by Koda Misono, under the stage name "misono." misono is the former lead vocalist of the Japanese group day after tomorrow and the younger sister of singer-songwriter Koda Kumi. It was the first single released for her studio album Never+Land, and carried a fairy tale theme, as would the following singles. The single debuted on the Oricon charts at No. 4 and remained on the charts for ten weeks. It sold over 40,000 units during its run, making it misono's best-selling and best-ranking single throughout her career.
What genre is VS? [SEP]  Vs. is the debut studio album by American post-punk band Mission of Burma, following their 1981 EP, Signals, Calls, and Marches. It was released in October 1982 by record label Ace of Hearts. It is the only full-length studio album the band released during the 1980s – and until 2004, as soon afterward they disbanded due to guitarist Roger Miller's worsening tinnitus.
What genre is VS? [SEP]  Versus (VERSUS -ヴァーサス-) is a 2000 Japanese independent zombie action film co-written, produced, and directed by Ryuhei Kitamura. The film is set somewhere in the deep forest of Japan, known as the Forest of Resurrection, where an escaped convict simply referred to as "Prisoner KSC2-303" and a gang of Yakuza battle a horde of zombies while at the same time dealing with their sinister leader who wishes to open the forest's portal of darkness. The film was originally intended as a sequel to Kitamura's short film Down to Hell but was later developed as a stand-alone film. Principal photography was originally intended to last 3 weeks but was extended to 7 months due to weather and financial issues. Versus premiered at the Tokyo International Fantastic Film Festival on October 29, 2000. In 2004, an expanded edition titled Ultimate Versus was released which included 10 minutes of new footage, as well as improved music, effects, credits, and edits.
What genre is VS? [SEP]  VS is the debut single of Japanese artist Misono Koda, under the stage name "misono." misono is the former lead vocalist of the band day after tomorrow and the younger sister of Koda Kumi. VS debuted high on the Oricon Singles Charts at No. 4 and remained on the charts for ten consecutive weeks. During its charting, the single sold 40,489 units, making it her highest selling solo single to date. The single was her first release in a slew of fairy tale themed singles created for her debut studio album, Never+Land. For "VS", the overall theme was of Snow
What genre is VS? [SEP] List of writing genres  Writing genres (more commonly known as literary genres) are categories that distinguish literature (including works of prose, poetry, drama, hybrid forms, etc.) based on some set of stylistic criteria. Sharing literary conventions, they typically consist of similarities in theme/topic, style, tropes, and storytelling devices; common settings and character types; and/or formulaic patterns of character interactions and events, and an overall predictable form.  A literary genre may fall under either one of two categories: (a) a work of fiction, involving non-factual descriptions and events invented by the author; or (b) a work of nonfiction, in which descriptions and events are understood to be factual. In literature, a work of fiction can refer to a short story, novella, and novel, the latter being the longest form of literary prose. Every work of fiction falls into a literary subgenre, each with its own style, tone, and storytelling devices.  Moreover, these genres are formed by shared literary conventions that change over time as new genres emerge while others fade. Accordingly, they are often defined by the cultural expectations and needs of a particular historical and, cultural moment or place.  According to Alastair Fowler, the following elements can be used to define genres: organizational features (chapters, acts, scenes, stanzas); length; mood; style; the reader's role (e.g., in mystery works, readers are expected to interpret evidence); and the author's reason for writing (an epithalamion is a poem composed for marriage).
What genre is VS? [SEP] Genre  Genre () is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed-upon conventions developed over time. In popular usage, it normally describes a category of literature, music, or other forms of art or entertainment, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria, yet genres can be aesthetic, rhetorical, communicative, or functional. Genres form by conventions that change over time as cultures invent new genres and discontinue the use of old ones. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions. Stand-alone texts, works, or pieces of communication may have individual styles, but genres are amalgams of these texts based on agreed-upon or socially inferred conventions. Some genres may have rigid, strictly adhered-to guidelines, while others may show great flexibility.  Genre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature, as set out in Aristotle's "Poetics". For Aristotle, poetry (odes, epics, etc.), prose, and performance each had specific design features that supported appropriate content of each genre. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, for example, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best.  Genres proliferate and develop beyond Aristotle’s classifications in response to changes in audiences and creators. Genre has become a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictability through artistic expression. Given that art is often a response to a social state, in that people write, paint, sing, dance, and otherwise produce art about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings.  Musician Ezra LaFleur argues that discussion of genre should draw from Ludwig Wittgenstein's idea of family resemblance. Genres are helpful labels for communicating but do not necessarily have a single attribute that is the essence of the genre.
What genre is VS? [SEP] List of genres  This is a list of genres of literature and entertainment (film, television, music, and video games), excluding .   "Genre" is the term for any category of creative work, which includes literature and other forms of art or entertainment (e.g. music)—whether written or spoken, audio or visual—based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.
What genre is VS? [SEP] List of video game genres  A video game genre is a specific category of games related by similar gameplay characteristics. Video game genres are not usually defined by the setting or story of the game or its medium of play, but by the way the player interacts with the game. For example; a first-person shooter is still a first-person shooter regardless of whether it takes place in a science fiction, western, fantasy, or military setting; so long as it features a camera mimicking the perspective of the protagonist (first-person) and gameplay centered around the use of ranged weaponry.  Genres may encompass a wide variety of games, leading to even more specific classifications called "subgenres". For example, an action game can be classified into many subgenres such as platform games and fighting games. Some games, most notably browser and mobile games, are commonly classified into multiple genres.  The following is a list of most commonly defined video game genres, with short descriptions for individual genres and major subgenres.
What genre is VS? [SEP] Music genre  A music genre is a conventional category that identifies some pieces of music as belonging to a shared tradition or set of conventions. It is to be distinguished from "musical form" and musical style, although in practice these terms are sometimes used interchangeably.  Music can be divided into genres in varying ways, such as popular music and art music, or religious music and secular music. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often subjective and controversial, and some genres may overlap.
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP]  The Seventh Veil is a 1945 British melodrama film directed by Compton Bennett and starring James Mason and Ann Todd. It was made by Ortus Films (a company established by producer Sydney Box) and released through General Film Distributors in the UK and Universal Pictures in the United States. The screenplay concerns Francesca (Todd), a brilliant concert pianist who attempts suicide while she is being treated for a disabling phobia centred on her hands that makes it impossible for her to play. A psychiatrist uses hypnosis to uncover the source of her crippling fear and to reveal, one by one, the relationships that have enriched and troubled her life. When the last “veil” is removed, her mind is clear. She regains the ability to play and knows whom she loves best. The film's title comes from the metaphor, attributed to one of the fictional doctors, that while Salome removed all her veils willingly, human beings fiercely protect the seventh and last veil that hides their deepest secrets, and will only reveal themselves completely under narcosis.
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP] The Seventh Veil (1951)
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP]  Above the Veil is the fourth children's book in Garth Nix's The Seventh Tower series, published in 2001 by Scholastic.
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP]  Indiana Jones and the Seven Veils is the third of 12 Indiana Jones novels published by Bantam Books. Rob MacGregor, the author of this book, also wrote five of the other Indiana Jones books for Bantam. Published on November 1, 1991, it is preceded by Indiana Jones and the Dance of the Giants and followed by Indiana Jones and the Genesis Deluge.
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP]  Francesca Cunningham is a brilliant concert pianist suffering from a delusion that she has lost the use of her hands. Despairing, she slips out of the nursing home where she is staying and jumps into the river. She survives, but is unresponsive. Dr. Larsen, a psychiatrist specializing in hypnosis, leads Francesca to describe events in her life that appear as flashbacks. When she is 14, music is “everything”. A teacher canes Francesca's hands, ruining her chances of winning a piano competition. Her father's sudden death puts her in the care of his second cousin, Nicholas, a misogynistic bachelor who walks with a cane. Nicholas ignores her until a school report reveals that she
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP] Dance of the Seven Veils  The Dance of the Seven Veils is Salome's dance performed before King Herod Antipas, in modern stage, literature and visual arts. It is an elaboration on the New Testament story of the Feast of Herod and the execution of John the Baptist, which refers to Salome dancing before the king, but does not give the dance a name.  The name "Dance of the Seven Veils" originates with the 1893 English translation of Oscar Wilde's 1891 French play "Salome" in the stage direction "Salome dances the dance of the seven veils". The dance was also incorporated into Richard Strauss's 1905 opera "Salome".
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP]
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP] Seven Veils (Robert Rich album)  Seven Veils (1998) is an album by the U.S. ambient musician Robert Rich. It is inspired by Arab culture and music. from guitar and percussion. All pieces except track 3 were composed in just intonation.
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP] Indiana Jones and the Seven Veils  Indiana Jones and the Seven Veils is the third of 12 Indiana Jones novels published by Bantam Books. Rob MacGregor, the author of this book, also wrote five of the other Indiana Jones books for Bantam. Published on November 1, 1991, it is preceded by "Indiana Jones and the Dance of the Giants" and followed by "Indiana Jones and the Genesis Deluge".
What genre is Seven Veils? [SEP] Dance of the Seven Veils (film)  Dance of the Seven Veils is a 1970 British television film about German composer Richard Strauss. The film, which was directed by Ken Russell, was only screened once by the BBC. After it was condemned for its gratuitous sex scenes and the depiction of the composer as a Nazi sympathiser, the Estate of Richard Strauss took out a legal injunction banning the use of the composer's music on the film's soundtrack. In February 2020, with the expiration of the composer's copyright after more than 70 years since Strauss died, the film was shown at a special screening event in Cumbria, England hosted by Ken Russell's widow.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP]  Bridge is an album by J-pop girlband Speed, released on November 27, 2003. This album was released as part of the "Save the Children" charity project in 2003. It contains their new singles Be My Love and Walking In the Rain/Stars to Shine Again. The album is unique in that it is produced by different artists, not just their main producer: this leads some people to believe it doesn't sound like an album: however, not many people are aware it is produced by different top performers and producers.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP]  Released in 2009, the CD Bridge Music (on the Delos label DE1045) entered the Billboard Classical Crossover Music Chart at #18, and has been released globally. Justin Patrick, writing for music site Brainwashed, called the Bridge Music CD "a fun album. It takes a high art concept and makes it playful."
What genre is Bridge? [SEP]  Bridge Music is a public sound art installation. Additionally, there is an album of the same name featuring music from this installation.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP]  Alter Bridge's music is often characterized and described as "heavy, yet melodic." Their music has been listed under several genres including hard rock,    heavy metal,   alternative metal, post-grunge, progressive metal, and alternative rock, with elements of progressive rock, thrash metal, and classic rock. Alter Bridge's music is co-written by Kennedy and Tremonti and arranged by Alter Bridge; the band's lyrics are written primarily by Kennedy, although Tremonti wrote most of the lyrics and all of the music on One Day Remains. The lyrics on the first two Alter Bridge albums mainly touch on hope and overcoming regret, sadness, grief, loneliness, pain, and addiction. The subject matter on their third release, AB III, is noticeably darker, with lyrical themes mostly based on struggling with faith and a loss of innocence.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP]  Friday Bridge is a Swedish pop band. The band has released two EPs and two albums since 2004. Friday Bridge's sound has been described as a mix between 1980s electronic pop and music from the 18th century - particularly referring to the use of harpsichord. The band is named after a village in Cambridgeshire, Great Britain.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP] Bridge over Troubled Water  Bridge Over Troubled Water is the fifth and final studio album by American folk rock duo Simon & Garfunkel, released in January 1970 on Columbia Records. Following the duo's soundtrack for "The Graduate", Art Garfunkel took an acting role in the film "Catch-22", while Paul Simon worked on the songs, writing all tracks except Felice and Boudleaux Bryant's "Bye Bye Love" (previously a hit for the Everly Brothers).  With the help of producer Roy Halee, the album followed a similar musical pattern as their "Bookends" LP, partly abandoning their traditional style to incorporate elements of rock, R&B, gospel, jazz, world music, pop and other genres. It was described as their "most effortless record and their most ambitious".<ref name="Pitchfork"/>  "Bridge Over Troubled Water" was released on January 26, 1970, and several re-releases followed. The album was mixed and released in both stereo and quadraphonic. Columbia Records released a 40th Anniversary Edition on March 8, 2011, which includes two DVDs, including the politically themed TV special "Songs of America" (1969), the documentary "The Harmony Game", additional liner notes and a booklet. Other reissues contain bonus tracks, such as the 2001 version, which covers the demo tapes of "Feuilles-O" and "Bridge over Troubled Water". Contemporary critical reception to "Bridge" was initially mixed, but retrospective reviews of the album have been laudatory, and it is considered by many to be the duo's best album.  Despite numerous accolades, the duo decided to split up, and parted company later in 1970; Garfunkel continued his film career, while Simon worked intensely with music. Both artists released solo albums in the following years. "Bridge" includes two of the duo's most critically acclaimed and commercially successful songs, "Bridge over Troubled Water" and "The Boxer", which were listed on "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. Critically and commercially successful, the album topped the charts in over ten countries and received two Grammy Awards, plus four more for the title song. The album sold around 25 million records; making it at the time of release the best-selling album of all time. It has been ranked on several lists, including at number 172 on "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP] Alter Bridge  Alter Bridge is an American rock band from Orlando, Florida. The band was formed in 2004 by vocalist and rhythm guitarist Myles Kennedy, lead guitarist Mark Tremonti, bassist Brian Marshall and drummer Scott Phillips. After their former band Creed became inactive in 2003, Tremonti and Phillips formed a new band with former bandmate Marshall and new member Kennedy; Alter Bridge was formally unveiled in January 2004, months before Creed's official breakup in June.  After signing with Wind-up Records, Alter Bridge released their debut album "One Day Remains" in August 2004, much of which was written by Tremonti the previous year. The album reached No. 5 on the U.S. "Billboard" 200 and, received mixed reviews, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America in November 2004. This was followed in 2007 by the more positively-reviewed "Blackbird", which marked the beginning of a long partnership between the band and producer Michael Baskette. The album reached No. 13 in the U.S. and was certified silver by the British Phonographic Industry.  Following continued activities with the members' other bands and side projects, Alter Bridge released "AB III" in 2010. It received critical acclaim and commercial success on Roadrunner Records, with its lead single "Isolation" topping the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock chart. Alter Bridge released "Fortress" to further acclaim in 2013, as the band's members continued splitting their time between various projects. "The Last Hero" followed on Napalm Records in 2016, becoming the band's first album since its debut to reach the top ten of the "Billboard" 200, and its first to reach the top five of the UK Albums Chart. Their sixth studio album, "Walk the Sky", was released in 2019, and was followed by "Walk the Sky 2.0" in 2020. The band's seventh album "Pawns & Kings" was released on October 14, 2022.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP] Bridge over Troubled Water (song)  "Bridge over Troubled Water" is a song by the American folk duo Simon & Garfunkel, released in January 1970 as the second single from their fifth studio album, "Bridge over Troubled Water" (1970). It was composed by Paul Simon and produced by Simon & Garfunkel and Roy Halee.  "Bridge over Troubled Water" features lead vocals by Art Garfunkel and a piano accompaniment influenced by gospel music, with a "Wall of Sound"-style production. It was the last song recorded for the album, but the first completed. The instrumentation, provided by the Wrecking Crew, was recorded in California, while Simon and Garfunkel's vocals were recorded in New York. Simon felt Garfunkel should sing solo, an invitation Garfunkel initially declined. Session musician Larry Knechtel performs piano, with Joe Osborn playing bass guitar and Hal Blaine on drums.  The song won five awards at the 13th Annual Grammy Awards in 1971, including Grammy Award for Record of the Year and Song of the Year. It is Simon & Garfunkel's most successful single, and it is often considered their signature song; it topped the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart for six weeks, and also reached number one in the United Kingdom, Canada, France and New Zealand. It reached the top five in eight other countries, eventually selling over six million copies worldwide. It became one of the most performed songs of the 20th century, covered by over 50 artists, including Elvis Presley, Aretha Franklin and Johnny Cash. It is ranked number 66 on "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP] Leon Bridges  Todd Michael "Leon" Bridges (born July 13, 1989) is an American soul singer, songwriter and record producer. He is best known for his 2015 song "Coming Home", which received regular airplay and was also a Top 10 Most Viral Track on Spotify. Bridges' debut album, also titled "Coming Home," was released on June 23, 2015, on Columbia Records and subsequently nominated for Best R&B Album at the 58th Annual Grammy Awards.
What genre is Bridge? [SEP] Bridge of Clay  Bridge of Clay is a 2018 novel by Australian author Markus Zusak. It revolves around five brothers coming to terms with the disappearance of their father.  "Bridge of Clay" was released in the United States and Australia on 9 October 2018, and in the United Kingdom on 11 October 2018.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP]  Deivos is a four-piece Polish brutal death metal band from Lublin.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP]  Deivos was formed between 1997 and 1998 by guitarist Tomasz Kołcon of Engraved, guitarist Maciej Nawrocki, and vocalist Marcin Górniak of Ravendusk. The band recorded its first demo, Praised by Generations, in 1999 with the aid of a drum machine. In 2000, drummer Krzysztof Saran of Abusiveness and bassist Jarek Pieńkoś joined the line-up. Near the end of 2001, Nawrocki and Górniak left the band, and Pieńkoś took over the band's vocals. In 2003, Deivos recorded the mini CD Hostile Blood, gaining them popularity in the metal underground as well as a deal with the Butchery Music label. The band's line-up was completed in 2004 with the addition of Abusiveness guitarist Mścisław, and their first full-length album, Emanation from Below, was recorded and released in 2006. In May 2009, the band signed with Unique Leader Records. Unique Leader Records released the band's third studio album, Gospel of Maggots, in February 2010. Then, in 2011, another album was released: Demiurge of the Void.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP] 1999: Praised by Generations (demo) ; 2003: Hostile Blood ; 2006: Emanation from Below ; 2010: Gospel of Maggots ; 2011: Demiurge of the Void ; 2015: Theodicy ; 2017: Endemic Divine
What genre is Deivos? [SEP]  Davos is the debut studio album of Danielle "Danz" Johnson and released under the moniker Computer Magic. It was released on October 16, 2015 on her label Channel 9 Records and on P-Vine and Tugboat in Japan.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP]  din_fiv was founded in 1990 out of San Francisco as a solo outlet for composer David Din of Informatik. His first solo composition for the project, titled "Terminal Condition", was provided to the compilations There Is No Time released by Ras Dva in 1994 and The Art of Brutality released by Arts Industria in 1995. Din released his 1995 debut studio album titled Infinity on Sinless Records. It represented Din's return to the electro-based music and was compared favorably to Informatik's first album. Metropolis Records adopted din_fiv into its roster and re-issued the debut in 1996 and again in 2009. A second album followed in 2000 titled Decade of the Brain. The album peaked at number fifteen on CMJ's top dance releases and was commended for its provocative lyrics and intense music. Metropolis re-issued both studio albums on Bandcamp as a music download in 2019.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP] Deivos (band)  Deivos is a four-piece Polish brutal death metal band from Lublin.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP] Metal Mind Productions  Metal Mind Productions (MMP) is a Polish record label founded in 1987. The label focuses on rock and heavy metal. MMP is also publisher of "Metal Hammer", the largest and the oldest heavy metal magazine. As a concert agency, it organises Metalmania, the largest heavy metal event in Central–Eastern Europe, and it organised over 1000 concerts, including Monsters of Rock in Poland, 1991.  Metal Mind Productions over the years became the subject of criticism from such bands as Malevolent Creation, Enter Chaos, Behemoth and Moonlight among others, for releasing unauthorized records and lack of professionalism. They purchased rights for several albums from Empire Records that include titles from such bands as Totem, Sammath Naur, Dissenter, Deivos, Archeon, Spinal Cord, Demise, Naumachia, and Pyorrhoea. and re-released them in 2007 and 2008 although the musicians were not been informed about the deal and were unable to contact Metal Mind.<ref name="magazyn"/>  Metal Mind had a licensing deal with Music for Nations from the 1990s until its closure in 2004. That deal included releases by such bands as Candlemass, Thrasher, Dispatched and Paradise Lost among others. It also had a distribution and licensing deal with Century Media Records that included releases by such bands as Sentenced, Death, Cryptopsy, Arch Enemy, Strapping Young Lad, Jag Panzer, The Gathering, Bloodbath and Massacre among others.  In 2006 Metal Mind Productions signed a multi-licensing deal with Roadrunner Records for their back catalogue. The selection of bands included Solitude Aeturnus, Willard, Trojan, Atrocity, Crimson Glory, Front Line Assembly, Violent Force, Acrophet, Amen, Atrophy, Heathen, Realm, Xentrix, Defiance, Disincarnate, Pestilence, Last Crack, Znowhite, Sadus, Toxik, Bulldozer and Gorguts.<ref name="mmproadrunner"/>  In 2008 the label signed a similar deal with Nuclear Blast for their back catalogue. The selection of bands include Brutallity, Control Denied, Darkane, Disbelief, Dismal Euphony, Destruction, Theatre of Tragedy, Stormwitch, Darkseed, Disharmonic Orchestra, Gardenian, Primal Fear, Farmer Boys, Horde, Hypocrisy, Impulse Manslaughter, Macabre, Mortification, Night in Gales, Slaughter, Abomination, Warhammer and Winter.<ref name="mmpnuclear" />  On other various licenses Metal Mind Productions released albums by artists such as Ankh, Anvil, Art Rock, Astharoth, Bang Tango, Bank, Blaze Bayley, Believer, Warlock and Wilczy Pająk among others.  In 2010 label founder Tomasz Dziubiński died of neoplasm.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP] Paweł Jaroszewicz  He is endorsed by Czarcie Kopyto Pedals, Meinl Cymbals, Tama Drums, Lime Ears in Ear Systems, Balbex Drumsticks, Red Case Drum Cases and Hesu Cables. He used to be endorsed by Paiste, Vic Firth, and DrumCraft drums.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP] Music of Poland  The Music of Poland covers diverse aspects of music and musical traditions which have originated, and are practiced in Poland. Artists from Poland include world-famous classical composers like Frédéric Chopin, Karol Szymanowski, Witold Lutosławski, Henryk Górecki and Krzysztof Penderecki; renowned pianists like Karl Tausig, Ignacy Jan Paderewski, Arthur Rubinstein and Krystian Zimerman; as well as popular music artists, and traditional, regionalised folk music ensembles that create a rich and lively music scene at the grassroots level. The musicians of Poland, over the course of history, have developed and popularized a variety of music genres and folk dances such as mazurka, polonaise, krakowiak, kujawiak, polska partner dance, oberek; as well as the sung poetry genre ("poezja śpiewana") and others. Mazurka (Mazur), Krakowiak, Kujawiak, Oberek and Polonaise (Polonez) are registered as Polish National Dances, originating in early Middle Ages. The oldest of them is Polonaise that comes from the Medieval pageant dances and it was originally called "chodzony", a "walking dance".   Polish music exhibits influences from a broad variety of world music styles which are represented by critically acclaimed bands, such as Perfect (Zbigniew Hołdys), Status Qwo, Maanam (Kora), T.Love, Golec uOrkiestra, Budka Suflera, Czerwone Gitary, Dżem, Big Cyc, as well as many other renowned artists, e.g. Czesław Niemen, Magdalena Ostrowska, Jacek Kaczmarski, Wojciech Młynarski, Czesław Mozil, Jakob Węgiel, Marek Grechuta, and contemporary singer-songwriters and pop icons including Margaret, Maria Peszek, Myslovitz, Edyta Bartosiewicz, and Doda; jazz musicians Tomasz Stańko, Krzysztof Komeda, Włodek Pawlik, Adam Makowicz, Leszek Możdżer, and Michał Urbaniak; death and black metal music bands Behemoth, Vader, and Decapitated; and film and contemporary classical music composers Wojciech Kilar, Jan A.P. Kaczmarek, Zbigniew Preisner, Abel Korzeniowski, Krzesimir Dębski, and Krzysztof Meyer, among many others.
What genre is Deivos? [SEP]
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]  Martinez's music has been described as pop,  alternative pop, art pop, electropop, emo pop, and dark-pop. Her debut album Cry Baby and second album K-12 were seen to have hip hop and R&B undertones. The subject matter of Martinez's songs are typically based on personal experiences. Martinez describes her own music as "very dark and honest" and "hip hop/trap inspired beats with creepy nostalgic childlike sounds such as baby pianos, music boxes, and toys". Martinez's music has been described by The Guardian as "off-kilter, sweary electropop". Rolling Stone described Martinez's music as "twisted lullabies about love, danger and madness", and compared her music to that of "'Coin-Operated Boy'-era Dresden Dolls" and Lana Del Rey. The New York TimessJon Pareles described her music as "perch[ing] prettily tinkling keyboards and concise pop choruses amid the slow, ominous basslines and twitchy percussion of Southern hip-hop – a
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]  Martinez has cited the Beatles, Neutral Milk Hotel, Feist, Kimbra, Zooey Deschanel, Regina Spektor, and CocoRosie as influences of hers. Specific albums which have influenced her music include The Idler Wheel... by Fiona Apple and Ariana Grande's albums Yours Truly and My Everything. She attributes the "heavy hip-hop influence" in her music to her father playing hip-hop music in the family's house often during her childhood. The visuals in Martinez's music videos have been influenced by her favorite visual artists: Mark Ryden, Aleksandra Waliszewska and Nicoletta Ceccoli. She named Tim Burton as a large influence of hers, and has said that to make a movie with him would be her "one dream".
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]  Manuel Luis Martinez (June 26, 1966) is an American novelist and literary critic. He was born in San Antonio, Texas, and is the author of four novels: Crossing, (Bilingual Press, 1998), Drift, (Picador USA, 2003), Day of the Dead, (Floricanto Press, 2010) and Los Duros (Floricanto Press, 2014). His fiction deals primarily with the lives of Mexican Americans and Mexican immigrants, and explores the themes of migration, contemporary urban life, and the experience of dislocation. He is also the author of a book of literary criticism, Countering the Counterculture: Rereading Postwar American Dissent from Jack Kerouac to Tomas Rivera, (University of Wisconsin Press, 2003).
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]  A. Lee Martinez is an American fantasy and science fiction author. He has been a member of the DFW Writers' Workshop since 1995. He currently resides in Terrell, Texas.
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]  Óscar “El Gallo Copeton” Martínez (born January 3, 1934 in Corpus Christi, Texas) is an American musician and songwriter of Mexican descent who performs Tejano, slow rock, polkas, cumbias and English tunes. Known to Tejano Music devotees as "El Tejano Enamorado", after the title of his song which was a hit for Isidro Lopez in 1954.
What genre is Martinez? [SEP] The Martinez Brothers  The Martinez Brothers are a duo of disc jockeys, music producers, and remixers from The Bronx, New York known for their long-term residencies at clubs in Ibiza. In 2014 they were named as DJs of the year by "Mixmag",<ref name="3mbc"/> who wrote that "no other DJ or DJ duo encapsulates house music in 2014 like the crown princes of DC10."<ref name="3mbc"/>
What genre is Martinez? [SEP] Melanie Martinez  Melanie Adele Martinez (born April 28, 1995) is an American singer and songwriter. Born in Astoria, Queens, and raised in Baldwin, New York, Martinez rose to fame in 2012 after appearing on the American television vocal talent show "The Voice". Following the show, she released her debut single "Dollhouse", followed by her debut EP of the same name (2014), through Atlantic Records.  Martinez later released her debut studio album, "Cry Baby" (2015), which went on to be certified double-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Martinez's songs "Sippy Cup", "Mad Hatter", "Mrs. Potato Head", "Cry Baby", "Pacify Her" and "Soap", were all certified gold in the U.S., and her songs "Dollhouse" and "Pity Party" received platinum certification from the RIAA.  Martinez released her second studio album, "K-12" (2019), alongside its accompanying film, as a follow up to the storyline of "Cry Baby". Her EP was released a year later in 2020, called "After School".
What genre is Martinez? [SEP]
What genre is Martinez? [SEP] Bad Bunny  Benito Antonio Martínez Ocasio (born March 10, 1994), known professionally as Bad Bunny, is a Puerto Rican rapper and singer. His musical style is defined as Latin trap and reggaeton. He rose to prominence in 2016 with his song "Diles", which led to a deal with Hear This Music. He continued gaining traction with songs such as "Soy Peor" and collaborations with Farruko, Karol G, Ozuna, J Balvin, and more during the next few years.  His major breakthrough came in 2018 with his feature on Cardi B's number-one song "I Like It" alongside J Balvin, and his top-ten song "Mia" featuring Drake. His debut album "X 100pre" was released in December 2018 by Rimas Entertainment, which peaked at number 11 on the US "Billboard" 200. He then released his collaborative album "Oasis" with J Balvin in June 2019, reaching number nine on the "Billboard" 200. Bad Bunny's second album "YHLQMDLG" was released on February 29, 2020, and became the highest charting all-Spanish album, reaching number two on the "Billboard" 200. It was followed up with the compilation album "Las que no iban a salir" in May, which reached number seven on the chart.  In November 2020, Bad Bunny released his fourth album "El Último Tour Del Mundo", combining his reggaeton and Latin trap sound with rock music. The album became the first all-Spanish-language album to reach number one on the "Billboard" 200 and its lead single "Dákiti" debuted in the top ten on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. In May 2022, his fifth album "Un Verano Sin Ti" released, which became his second number-one album and topped the "Billboard" 200 Year-End chart, while four of the album's singles peaked in the top ten on the "Billboard" Hot 100. "Un Verano Sin Ti" was the first Spanish-language album to earn a Grammy nomination for Album of the Year.  Bad Bunny is credited with helping Spanish-language music achieve mainstream popularity in the worldwide market. In 2020, he became the first non-English language act to be Spotify's most streamed artist of the year and achieved the same record again in 2021. He then had the biggest streaming year for any artist on Spotify in 2022. Bad Bunny has earned two Grammy Awards, four Latin Grammy Awards, eight "Billboard" Music Awards, and thirteen Premios lo Nuestro awards. He was crowned Artist of the Year at the Apple Music Awards 2022. Bad Bunny has sold 5 million records worldwide.
What genre is Martinez? [SEP] Cry Baby (Melanie Martinez album)  Cry Baby is the debut studio album by American singer and songwriter Melanie Martinez, released on August 14, 2015, through Atlantic Records. Between September and December 2012, Martinez rose to prominence upon participating in the third season of the American edition of "The Voice". After the show's completion, the singer began working independently on original material, which she says she spent the majority of 2013 writing. The album was supported by the release of three singles. Two singles preceded the album's release: lead single "Pity Party", was released on June 2, 2015, while the second single, "Soap", was released on July 10, 2015. The third and final single from the album, "Sippy Cup" was released July 31, 2015. The singer's debut single, "Dollhouse", was also included on the tracklist. "Cry Baby" is a visual concept album about a character named Cry Baby, who is a fantasy version of Martinez. Musically, "Cry Baby" is primarily an alternative pop, electropop, and indie pop<ref name="underthegunreview" /> record, and received generally positive reviews from critics. In the United States, the album was certified double-platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America, after earning 2 million album-equivalent units (sales, streaming, and track sales). In 2020, the song "Play Date", went viral on video-sharing platform TikTok, causing the album to re-enter charts globally.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]  Chariot Race is a 2D racing game for the Commodore VIC-20 home computer published in 1983 by Micro-Antics. Each player attempts to take out the opponent's chariot on the way to the finish. The design, programming, and sound were done by Paul Hope, who died in 2011.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]  Asterix and the Chariot Race (French: Astérix et la Transitalique, "Asterix and the Trans-Italic") is the 37th book in the Asterix series, and the third to be written by Jean-Yves Ferri and illustrated by Didier Conrad. The book was released worldwide in more than 20 languages on 19 October 2017 with an initial print run of 5 million copies.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]  The band's music is characterized by a metal sound, and the screamed vocals of frontman Josh Scogin. Journalists have frequently referred to the music as "chaotic"; Allmusic writer Alex Henderson described it as a "dense, clobbering sledgehammer", while Brian Shultz of Alternative Press called it "manically pounding, distortion-soaked exercises of catharsis". The Chariot has often been labeled a metalcore band. However, the music generally defies genre standards like melodic/abrasive dynamics and harmonizing vocals; it wouldn't leave room for the "nonstop firestorm of exploding drums, heaving guitars, and visceral shrieking," as Allmusic writer Corey Apar put it. The band utilizes time changes and start-stop shifts, and typically
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]  On Goodreads, Asterix and the Chariot Race has a score of 3.48 out of 5. Comics Review said the book is "furiously funny and hilariously jam-packed with and timeless jibes and cracking contemporary swipes" The book received renewed media attention in 2020 amid the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (COVID-19) pandemic because the charioteer favored to win the race goes by the name Coronavirus and wears a face mask.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]  Heracles Chariot Racing is a racing game by Neko Entertainment originally released for PlayStation 2 in 2007. It was later released as a WiiWare game in North America on July 6, 2009 and the PAL regions on July 24, 2009. On December 16, 2009 it was released on the PSP through the PlayStation Network store as a downloadable title.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP]
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP] Ben-Hur (1959 film)  Ben-Hur is a 1959 American religious epic film directed by William Wyler, produced by Sam Zimbalist, and starring Charlton Heston as the title character. A remake of , it was adapted from Lew Wallace's 1880 novel "". The screenplay is credited to Karl Tunberg, but includes contributions from Maxwell Anderson, S. N. Behrman, Gore Vidal, and Christopher Fry.  "Ben-Hur" had the largest budget ($15.175 million), as well as the largest sets built, of any film produced at the time. Costume designer Elizabeth Haffenden oversaw a staff of 100 wardrobe fabricators to make the costumes, and a workshop employing 200 artists and workmen provided the hundreds of friezes and statues needed in the film. Filming commenced on May 18, 1958, and wrapped on January 7, 1959, with shooting lasting for 12 to 14 hours a day and six days a week. Pre-production began in Italy at Cinecittà around October 1957, and post-production took six months. Under cinematographer Robert L. Surtees, executives at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer made the decision to produce the film in a widescreen format. Over 200 camels and 2,500 horses were used in the shooting of the film, with some 10,000 extras. The sea battle was filmed using miniatures in a huge tank on the back lot at the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Studios in Culver City, California. The nine-minute chariot race has become one of cinema's most famous action sequences, and the score, composed and conducted by Miklós Rózsa, was at the time the longest ever composed for a film, and was highly influential on cinema for over 15 years.  Following a $14.7 million marketing effort, "Ben-Hur" premiered at Loew's State Theatre in New York City on November 18, 1959. It was the fastest-grossing, as well as the highest-grossing film of 1959, becoming the second highest-grossing film in history at the time, after "Gone with the Wind". It won a record eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director (Wyler), Best Actor in a Leading Role (Heston), Best Actor in a Supporting Role (Griffith), and Best Cinematography – Color (Surtees); it also won Golden Globe Awards for Best Motion Picture – Drama, Best Director, and Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture for Stephen Boyd. In 1998, the American Film Institute named it the 72nd best American film and the second best American epic film in the AFI's 10 Top 10. In 2004, the National Film Preservation Board selected "Ben-Hur" for preservation by the National Film Registry of the Library of Congress for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP] Asterix and the Chariot Race  Asterix and the Chariot Race (French: "Astérix et la Transitalique", "Asterix and the Trans-Italic") is the 37th book in the Asterix series, and the third to be written by Jean-Yves Ferri and illustrated by Didier Conrad. The book was released worldwide in more than 20 languages on 19 October 2017 with an initial print run of 5 million copies.
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP] Chariot Race  Chariot Race is a top-down racing game for the VIC-20 home computer published in 1983 by Micro-Antics. Each player attempts to take out the opponent's chariot on the way to the finish. The design, programming, and sound were done by Paul Hope, who died in 2011.<ref name="gtw"/>
What genre is Chariot Race? [SEP] Motorcycle chariot racing  Motorcycle chariot racing is a motor sport that combines motorcycle racing and chariot racing.  The first competition of the sport was held in the U.S. as early as 1922,<ref name=PopularMechanics/> and gained popularity in the 1920s and 1930s, further inspired by the 1925 film "".<ref name=HistoryDaily/><ref name=NFSA/><ref name=BoingBoing/> It went largely (although not entirely)<ref name=Getty/> extinct after that, although exhibition rigs are still made and driven.<ref name=Deely/>  One early event was held on June 4, 1922, at Idora Park in Oakland, California: Races might also have been held during the 1920s at the old speedway in Charlotte, North Carolina (the old speedway at , not the modern Charlotte Motor Speedway). After the early events, the sport was further developed in Australia and quickly spread to Europe.  A typical early vehicle configuration was a rider on a motorcycle pulling a chariot and charioteer who were essentially ornamental. A 1922 short piece in "Popular Mechanics" describes this configuration.<ref name=PopularMechanics/> This soon developed into a configuration with two riderless motorcycles steered by a single charioteer using reins.<ref name=Deely/> Steering was sometimes done with reins attached to the throttles (the charioteer steered by controlling the relative speed of the two motorcycles), and sometimes with rigid extensions attached to the handlebars.<ref name=RidingVintage/> Modern rigs may have foot pedals for speed control, the reins used for steering the front wheels.<ref name=Getty/>
What genre is Progression? [SEP]  Progression is Markus Schulz's second Artist Album and was released in 2007. This progressive trance album was released under exclusive license in the United States and Canada to Ultra Records Inc. The album features the vocals of Kate Cameron, Anita Kelsey, Carrie Skipper and Dauby Talles. It also includes collaborations with Chakra and Andy Moor.
What genre is Progression? [SEP]  Age progression is an occasional theme in anime/manga, motion pictures, cartoons and comics, literature, and stage performances. One of the earliest mentions is the Athena origin legend, who leaped from Zeus's skull fully grown. The protagonist of the Vietnamese Giong legend grew up rapidly.
What genre is Progression? [SEP]  Trilateral Progression is the fourth studio album by Canadian death metal band Neuraxis. It was released on September 13, 2005, by Earache Records in the United Kingdom, and by Willowtip Records in North America.
What genre is Progression? [SEP]  The Gradual Progression is a studio album by American drummer Greg Fox, released on September 8, 2017 by the label RVNG Intl. It depicts his first use of Sensory Percussion, a set of sensors created by drummer Tlacael Esparza where drum hits send MIDI data to virtual instruments. Fox used Sensory Percussion as a way to become flexible with his drumming skills and combine his interests in electronic music with drumming. The album was recorded in Brooklyn in six days and also features instrumental performances from Curtis Santiago, Michael Beharie, Maria Kim Grand, and Justin Frye. The LP garnered favorable reviews from music journalists upon its release.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] A classic work where age progression is thwarted rather than accelerated, is Oscar Wilde's The Picture of Dorian Gray; at the end of the story, the protagonist undergoes AP after killing his likeness in a painting, which had previously preserved Gray's youthful appearance. ; In the book "Happy Birthday, Dear Amy" by Marilyn Kaye, a 13-year-old girl grows into a 25-year-old overnight.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] Chord progression  In a musical composition, a chord progression or harmonic progression (informally chord changes, used as a plural) is a succession of chords. Chord progressions are the foundation of harmony in Western musical tradition from the common practice era of Classical music to the 21st century. Chord progressions are the foundation of Western popular music styles (e.g., pop music, rock music), traditional music, as well as genres such as blues and jazz. In these genres, chord progressions are the defining feature on which melody and rhythm are built.  In tonal music, chord progressions have the function of either establishing or otherwise contradicting a tonality, the technical name for what is commonly understood as the "key" of a song or piece. Chord progressions, such as the common chord progression I–vi–ii–V, are usually expressed by Roman numerals in Classical music theory. In many styles of popular and traditional music, chord progressions are expressed using the name and "quality" of the chords. For example, the previously mentioned chord progression, in the key of C major, would be written as C major–A minor–D minor–G major in a fake book or lead sheet. In the first chord, C major, the "C" indicates that the chord is built on the root note "C" and the word "major" indicates that a major chord is built on this "C" note.  In rock and blues, musicians also often refer to chord progressions using Roman numerals, as this facilitates transposing a song to a new key. For example, rock and blues musicians often think of the 12-bar blues as consisting of I, IV, and V chords. Thus, a simple version of the 12-bar blues might be expressed as I–I–I–I, IV–IV–I–I, V–IV–I–I. By thinking of this blues progression in Roman numerals, a backup band or rhythm section could be instructed by a bandleader to play the chord progression in any key. For example, if the bandleader asked the band to play this chord progression in the key of C major, the chords would be C–C–C–C, F–F–C–C, G–F–C–C; if the bandleader wanted the song in G major, the chords would be G–G–G–G, C–C–G–G, D–C–G–G; and so on.  The complexity of a chord progression varies from genre to genre and over different historical periods. Some pop and rock songs from the 1980s to the 2010s have fairly simple chord progressions. Funk emphasizes the groove and rhythm as the key element, so entire funk songs may be based on one chord. Some jazz-funk songs are based on a two-, three-, or four-chord vamp. Some punk and hardcore punk songs use only a few chords. On the other hand, bebop jazz songs may have 32-bar song forms with one or two chord changes every bar.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] The Pilgrim's Progress  The Pilgrim's Progress from This World, to That Which Is to Come is a 1678 Christian allegory written by John Bunyan. It is regarded as one of the most significant works of theological fiction in English literature and a progenitor of the narrative aspect of Christian media. It has been translated into more than 200 languages and never been out of print. It appeared in Dutch in 1681, in German in 1703 and in Swedish in 1727. The first North American edition was issued in 1681. It has also been cited as the first novel written in English. According to literary editor Robert McCrum, "there's no book in English, apart from the Bible, to equal Bunyan's masterpiece for the range of its readership, or its influence on writers as diverse as C. S. Lewis, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Herman Melville, Charles Dickens, Louisa May Alcott, George Bernard Shaw, William Thackeray, Charlotte Bronte, Mark Twain, John Steinbeck and Enid Blyton. The words on which the hymn "To be a Pilgrim" is based come from the novel.  Bunyan began his work while in the Bedfordshire county prison for violations of the Conventicle Act of 1664, which prohibited the holding of religious services outside the auspices of the established Church of England. Early Bunyan scholars such as John Brown believed "The Pilgrim's Progress" was begun in Bunyan's second, shorter imprisonment for six months in 1675, but more recent scholars such as Roger Sharrock believe that it was begun during Bunyan's initial, more lengthy imprisonment from 1660 to 1672 right after he had written his spiritual autobiography "Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners".  The English text comprises 108,260 words and is divided into two parts, each reading as a continuous narrative with no chapter divisions. The first part was completed in 1677 and entered into the Stationers' Register on 22 December 1677. It was licensed and entered in the "Term Catalogue" on 18 February 1678, which is looked upon as the date of first publication. After the first edition of the first part in 1678, an expanded edition, with additions written after Bunyan was freed, appeared in 1679. The Second Part appeared in 1684. There were eleven editions of the first part in John Bunyan's lifetime, published in successive years from 1678 to 1685 and in 1688, and there were two editions of the second part, published in 1684 and 1686.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] I–V–vi–IV progression  The I–V–vi–IV progression is a common chord progression popular across several genres of music. It involves the I, V, vi, and IV chords of any particular musical scale. For example, in the key of C major, this progression would be: C–G–Am–F. Rotations include: The '50s progression uses the same chords but in a different order (I–vi–IV–V), no matter the starting point.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] Doo-wop  Doo-wop (also spelled doowop and doo wop) is a genre of rhythm and blues music that originated in African-American communities during the 1940s, mainly in the large cities of the United States, including New York, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Baltimore, Newark, Detroit, Washington, DC, and Los Angeles. It features vocal group harmony that carries an engaging melodic line to a simple beat with little or no instrumentation. Lyrics are simple, usually about love, sung by a lead vocal over background vocals, and often featuring, in the bridge, a melodramatically heartfelt recitative addressed to the beloved. Harmonic singing of nonsense syllables (such as "doo-wop") is a common characteristic of these songs. Gaining popularity in the 1950s, doo-wop was "artistically and commercially viable" until the early 1960s, but continued to influence performers in other genres.
What genre is Progression? [SEP] Progressive house  Progressive house is a subgenre of house music. The progressive house style emerged in the early 1990s. It initially developed in the United Kingdom as a natural progression of American and European house music of the late 1980s.
What genre is The Take? [SEP]  The Take is a Canadian documentary film released in 2004 by the wife and husband team of Naomi Klein and Avi Lewis. It tells the story of workers in Buenos Aires, Argentina who reclaim control of a closed Forja auto plant where they once worked and turn it into a worker cooperative.
What genre is The Take? [SEP]  Take (stylized in all caps) is the second studio album by South Korean rapper Mino. It was released on October 30, 2020, through YG Entertainment. Written and composed entirely by Mino, the album consists of twelve tracks including the lead single, "Run Away", for which a music video was released alongside the album. Musically, it is a hip hop record that contains influences of ballad, dance-pop, folk, moombahton, R&B, rap and soul.
What genre is The Take? [SEP]  The Take were a Welsh punk rock/post-hardcore band from Cardiff, Wales. The Take have released two albums: Propeller (2002) on Household Name, and Dolomite (2006) on Bombed Out Records.
What genre is The Take? [SEP]  Take is a 2007 American crime thriller directed and written by Charles Oliver and starring Minnie Driver, Jeremy Renner, Bobby Coleman, Adam Rodríguez and David Denman. The film premiered at Tribeca Film Festival on April 27, 2007.
What genre is The Take? [SEP]  Takes is the third studio album by British singer/songwriter Adem. It is a covers album, consisting primarily of covers of 90s pop/alternative tracks.
What genre is The Take? [SEP] Take Five  "Take Five" is a jazz standard composed by saxophonist Paul Desmond and originally recorded by the Dave Brubeck Quartet for their album "Time Out" at Columbia Records' 30th Street Studios in New York City on July 1, 1959. Two years later it became a sleeper hit and the biggest-selling jazz single ever. Revived since in numerous movie and television soundtracks the piece still receives significant radio airplay. The single was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1996.
What genre is The Take? [SEP] Take Me to Church  "Take Me to Church" is a song by Irish singer-songwriter Hozier. It was released as his debut single on 13 September 2013, originally featuring on his extended play of the same name, before being featured as the opening track of his 2014 debut album "Hozier". A struggling musician at the time of its composition, Hozier wrote and recorded the song in the attic of his parents' home in County Wicklow. A mid-tempo soul song, its lyrics use religious terminology to describe a romantic relationship in the face of Church discrimination. The song caught the attention of Rubyworks Records, where producer Rob Kirwan collaborated with Hozier on the final recording.  The accompanying music video premiered in September 2013, directed by Brendan Canty and Conal Thomson. It was shot in black-and-white and follows a romantic relationship between two men and its subsequent violent homophobic backlash. Upon its YouTube release in September 2013, the video quickly went viral, leading to Hozier's subsequent license with Columbia Records US and Island Records UK. In 2014, the song achieved widespread global popularity, topping the charts in 12 countries and reaching the top 10 in 21 other territories. The song also received critical acclaim.  Aided by music platforms Shazam and Spotify to become a rock radio hit in the U.S., the song spent 23 consecutive weeks at the top of the Hot Rock Songs chart, tied with Imagine Dragons "Radioactive" as the longest-running number-one in its chart-history (at the time). "Take Me to Church" later crossed over to the "Billboard" Hot 100, where it peaked at number two in December 2014. The song was nominated for the Grammy Award for Song of the Year at the 57th Annual Grammy Awards and has been certified six-times platinum in the US.
What genre is The Take? [SEP] Take On Me  "Take On Me" is a song by the Norwegian synth-pop band A-ha. The original version, recorded in 1984 and released in October of that same year, was produced by Tony Mansfield and remixed by John Ratcliff. The 1985 international hit version was produced by Alan Tarney for the group's debut studio album, "Hunting High and Low" (1985). The recording combines synth-pop with a varied instrumentation, including acoustic guitars, keyboards, and drums.  The original 1984 version "Take On Me" failed to chart in the United Kingdom, as did the second version in the first of its two 1985 releases. The second of those 1985 releases charted in September 1985, reaching number two on the UK Singles Chart in October. In the United States in October 1985 the single topped "Billboard"'s Hot 100, no doubt bolstered by the wide exposure on MTV of director Steve Barron's innovative music video featuring the band in a live-action pencil-sketch animation sequence. The video won six awards and was nominated for two others at the 1986 MTV Video Music Awards.
What genre is The Take? [SEP] Take Me Home, Country Roads  "Take Me Home, Country Roads", also known simply as "Country Roads", is a song written by Bill Danoff, Taffy Nivert and John Denver about West Virginia. It was released as a single performed by Denver on April 12, 1971, peaking at number two on "Billboard"s US Hot 100 singles for the week ending August 28, 1971. The song was a success on its initial release and was certified Gold by the RIAA on August 18, 1971, and Platinum on April 10, 2017. The song became one of John Denver's most popular songs. It has continued to sell, with over 1.6 million digital copies sold in the United States.  The song is considered a symbol of West Virginia. In March 2014, it became one of the four official state anthems of West Virginia.
What genre is The Take? [SEP] Take a Step Back  "Take a Step Back" is a song by American rapper Ski Mask the Slump God featuring fellow American rapper XXXTentacion. The song was released as a single for Ski Mask's mixtape "You Will Regret". It was produced by Ronny J.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP]  Conversations is the second studio album by American rock band Roses Are Red.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP]  Conversations is the first studio album and second album overall from Christian singer-songwriter Sara Groves, and was released on March 20, 2001, by INO Records. The producer on the album is Nate Sabin.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP]  Conversations with Friends is the 2017 debut novel by the Irish author Sally Rooney. The novel was published by Faber and Faber.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP]  Conversations is the debut album by London-based group Woman's Hour. This album is mixture of indie pop, alternative and electronic pop. Adding swooning synths, clipped rhythms, and muted guitars, "Conversations" is new wave with a twist of some nocturnal R&B and soft disco.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP]  Conversations is From a Second Story Window's second and final full-length studio album. It was released on May 27, 2008. This album is a concept album, telling the stories of people of the world and the conversations they have with each other.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP] Conversations with Friends  Conversations with Friends is the 2017 debut novel by the Irish author Sally Rooney, about two young women who become involved with an older couple in Dublin's literary scene. The novel was published by Faber and Faber and received critical acclaim. A television adaptation, also called "Conversations with Friends", was released in 2022.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP] The Conversation  The Conversation is a 1974 American mystery thriller film written, produced, and directed by Francis Ford Coppola and starring Gene Hackman, John Cazale, Allen Garfield, Cindy Williams, Frederic Forrest, Harrison Ford, Teri Garr, and Robert Duvall. The film revolves around a surveillance expert and the moral dilemma he faces when his recordings reveal a potential murder. Coppola cited the Michelangelo Antonioni thriller "Blowup" (1966) as a key influence, but since the film was released to theaters just a few months before Richard Nixon resigned as president, he felt that audiences interpreted the film as being a reaction to the Watergate scandal.  "The Conversation" premiered at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Palme d'Or, the festival's highest prize, and was theatrically released on April 7, 1974 by Paramount Pictures to critical acclaim but box office disappointment, grossing $4.2 million on a $1.6 million budget. The film received three nominations at the 47th Academy Awards; Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Sound.  In 1995, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
What genre is Conversations? [SEP] Sally Rooney  Sally Rooney (born 20 February 1991) is an Irish author and screenwriter. She has published three novels: "Conversations with Friends" (2017), "Normal People" (2018), and "Beautiful World, Where Are You" (2021). "Normal People" was adapted into a 2020 television series by Hulu, RTÉ, Screen Ireland and the BBC. Rooney's work has garnered critical acclaim and commercial success, and she is regarded as one of the foremost millennial writers.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP] A Little Less Conversation  "A Little Less Conversation" is a 1968 song recorded by American singer Elvis Presley, written by Mac Davis and Billy Strange and published by Gladys Music, Inc., originally performed in the film "Live a Little, Love a Little". The song became a minor hit in the United States when released as a single with "Almost in Love" as the A-side. A 2002 remix by Dutch musician Junkie XL of a later re-recording of the song by Presley became a worldwide hit, topping the singles charts in nine countries and was awarded certifications in ten countries by 2003.  The song has made numerous appearances in popular culture and has been covered by several artists.
What genre is Conversations? [SEP] Imaginary Conversations  Imaginary Conversations is Walter Savage Landor's most celebrated prose work. Begun in 1823, sections were constantly revised and were ultimately published in a series of five volumes. The conversations were in the tradition of dialogues with the dead, a genre begun in Classical times that had a popular European revival in the 17th century and after. Their subjects range over philosophical, political and moral themes, and are designed to give a dramatic sense of the contrasting personalities and attitudes involved.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]  The Mars Diaries is a science fiction series for young adults by the best-selling author, Sigmund Brouwer, published by Tyndale House Publishers in 2000 - 2002. Set in an experimental community on Mars in the year 2039, the Mars Diaries feature fourteen-year-old virtual reality specialist Tyce Sanders. It was re-published by Tyndale House Publishers in 2009 and 2012 as a 5 volume series titled Robot Wars.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]  genre, A Princess of Mars and its sequels are the best known, and they were a dominant influence on subsequent authors. Initially published in magazines with general readership, by the 1930s the planetary romance had become very popular in the emerging science fiction pulp magazines. The novel can also be classified as the closely related genre sword and planet, which consists of what are essentially sword and sorcery stories that take place on another planet. A Princess of Mars is widely considered to be the archetypal novel of the sword and planet genre. The novel also shares a number of elements of Westerns, such as desert settings, women taken captive, and a climactic life-or-death confrontation with the antagonist.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]  Mars Chronicles is a limited vinyl album by electronica group Kreidler, released in 2011.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]  Mars is the third Mini-Album for the Japanese rock duo B'z, released in 1991. The album sold 1,730,500 copies in total, reaching #1 at Oricon.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]  The Mars Canon (火星のカノン) is a 2002 Japanese film directed by Shiori Kazama. Themes of the film include adultery and homosexuality, as Mars connotes both fighting and sexual intercourse.
What genre is Mars? [SEP] The Mars Volta  The Mars Volta is an American progressive rock band from El Paso, Texas, formed in 2001. The band's only constant members are Omar Rodríguez-López (guitar, producer, direction) and Cedric Bixler-Zavala (vocals, lyrics), whose partnership forms the core of the band. The band's current line-up also includes founding member Eva Gardner (bass), Omar's brother Marcel Rodríguez-López (keyboards, synths, percussion), Linda-Philomène Tsoungui (drums) and Leo Genovese (keyboards, saxophone).  Known for their energetic live shows and concept albums, The Mars Volta formed following the break-up of Rodríguez-López and Bixler-Zavala's previous band, At the Drive-In. Seeking to experiment and expand their sound, Rodríguez-López and Bixler-Zavala recruited Gardner, Isaiah "Ikey" Owens (keyboards), Jon Theodore (drums) and Jeremy Ward (sound manipulation) to form The Mars Volta. The band released their debut EP, "Tremulant", in 2002, with Gardner leaving the band prior to recording their debut album, "De-Loused in the Comatorium". She was replaced by Red Hot Chili Peppers bass guitarist Flea for the sessions. The Rick Rubin-produced album received widespread critical acclaim upon its release in 2003.  The band's second studio album, "Frances the Mute" (2005), was self-produced by Rodríguez-López and was the first to feature longterm members Juan Alderete (bass) and Marcel Rodríguez-López. The album debuted at #4 on the US "Billboard" 200 and became the band's biggest commercial success, selling over 500,000 copies in the US and achieving Gold certification from the RIAA. The band's third studio album, "Amputechture", was released in 2006 and was the last album to feature Theodore. In 2008, the band released "The Bedlam in Goliath", a concept album inspired by the band's turbulent experiences with a ouija-type talking board. The album's first single, "Wax Simulacra" was awarded a Grammy Award in 2009 for Best Hard Rock Performance. The band released its fifth album, "Octahedron", in June 2009.   Following the release of their sixth album, "Noctourniquet" (2012), and a run of reunion shows with At the Drive-In, The Mars Volta entered a hiatus in September 2012. Rodríguez-López subsequently formed a new project, Bosnian Rainbows, and the band formally broke up after disagreements between Rodríguez-López and Bixler-Zavala. The duo repaired their friendship and reunited in 2014 for a new project, Antemasque, and further At the Drive-In tours and recording sessions.  Reuniting in secret in 2019, Rodríguez-López and Bixler-Zavala recorded a new studio album, "The Mars Volta", with Gardner, Marcel Rodríguez-López and drummer Willy Rodriguez Quiñones. The band announced their reunion – after ten years of public inactivity – with an art installation called L'ytome Hodorxí Telesterion, in June 2022. For the band's live return, jazz pianist Leo Genovese and drummer Linda-Philomène Tsoungui were added to the line-up.
What genre is Mars? [SEP]
What genre is Mars? [SEP] Mars Argo  Brittany Alexandria Sheets, known by her stage name Mars Argo, is an American singer, songwriter, actress, and internet personality.  Sheets is prominently known for her portrayal of a fictionalized stage persona of herself on YouTube. She became known as the lead singer of the indie rock band of the same name, named after her main stage persona. Mars Argo released their only album, "Technology Is a Dead Bird", on November 6, 2009. The band continued to release extended plays such as "Internet Sessions" and "Linden Place" throughout 2010 and 2011. In a 2013 "Vice" article, the band stated that they were working on their own TV show along with a second album,<ref name="noisey" /> but both projects were later abandoned.  Besides releasing music, Sheets co-produced, wrote, and directed content for her YouTube channel grocerybagdottv (renamed shouldicleanmyroom in 2022), formerly co-operated by her former partner Titanic Sinclair. The channel's content was often satirical, revolving around society and Internet culture. However, after the duo broke up in early 2014, all but three videos were removed from the channel. The only videos that still remain on the channel to this day are the music videos for "Using You", "Runaway Runaway", and a satirical video called "Delete Your Facebook". In 2022, Sheets made a comeback with her debut solo single "Angry", and a subsequent audio video was uploaded onto the channel.
What genre is Mars? [SEP] Thirty Seconds to Mars  Thirty Seconds to Mars (commonly stylized as 30 Seconds to Mars) is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed in 1998. The band consists of brothers Jared Leto (lead vocals, guitar, bass, keyboards) and Shannon Leto (drums, percussion). During the course of its existence, it has undergone various line-up changes.  The band's debut album, "30 Seconds to Mars" (2002), was produced by Bob Ezrin and released to positive reviews but only to limited commercial success. The band achieved worldwide fame with the release of its second album "A Beautiful Lie" (2005), which received multiple certifications all over the world. Its next release, "This Is War" (2009), showed a dramatic evolution in the band's musical style, as it incorporated experimental music as well as eclectic influences. The recording process of the album was marked by a legal dispute with record label EMI that eventually became the subject of the documentary film "Artifact" (2012). Thirty Seconds to Mars then moved to Universal Music and released the fourth album, "Love, Lust, Faith and Dreams" (2013), to critical and commercial success. It was followed by "America" (2018), which polarized critics upon release.  As of September 2014, the band had sold over 15 million albums worldwide. Thirty Seconds to Mars has consistently enjoyed sold out tours and numerous headlining festival slots. The band is noted for its energetic live performances and for fusing elements from a wide variety of genres, through its use of philosophical and spiritual lyrics, concept albums, and experimental music. Thirty Seconds to Mars has received several awards and accolades throughout its career, including a Guinness World Record, and has been included in the "Kerrang!" list of best artists of the 2000s.
What genre is Mars? [SEP] Mars in fiction  Mars, the fourth planet from the Sun, has appeared as a setting in works of fiction since at least the mid-1600s. It became the most popular celestial object in fiction in the late 1800s as the Moon was evidently lifeless. At the time, the predominant genre depicting Mars was utopian fiction. Contemporaneously, the mistaken belief that there are canals on Mars emerged and made its way into fiction. "The War of the Worlds", H. G. Wells' story of an alien invasion of Earth by sinister Martians, was published in 1897 and went on to have a large influence on the science fiction genre.  Life on Mars appeared frequently in fiction throughout the first half of the 1900s. Apart from enlightened as in the utopian works from the turn of the century, or evil as in the works inspired by Wells, intelligent and human-like Martians also began to be depicted as decadent, a portrayal that was popularized by Edgar Rice Burroughs in the "Barsoom" series and adopted by Leigh Brackett among others. Besides these, more exotic lifeforms appeared in stories like Stanley G. Weinbaum's "A Martian Odyssey".  The theme of colonizing Mars replaced stories about native inhabitants of the planet in the second half of the 1900s following emerging evidence of the planet being inhospitable to life, eventually confirmed by data from Mars exploration probes. A significant minority of works nevertheless persisted in portraying Mars in a way that was by then scientifically outdated, including Ray Bradbury's "The Martian Chronicles".  Terraforming Mars to enable human habitation has been another major theme, especially in the final quarter of the century, with the most prominent example being Kim Stanley Robinson's "Mars" trilogy. Stories of the first human mission to Mars appeared throughout the 1990s in response to the Space Exploration Initiative. The moons of Mars—Phobos and Deimos—have made only sporadic appearances in fiction.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]  Dimensions is the fifth full-length album by the German power metal band Freedom Call. It was released on April 20, 2007. Stylistically, the album combines the up-tempo and melodic elements of the Eternity album with the more contemporary sound of The Circle of Life album. The mixing and mastering of the album was by Tommy Newton of Victory. It is a concept album set in a post-apocalyptic world, in the year 3051, in which a demon created by mankind has completely ravaged the world. The Japanese version includes the bonus track "The Quest (Unplugged Version)".
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]  Dimensions is the third album by the Christian progressive thrash metal band Believer, released in 1993 on both Roadrunner Records and R.E.X. Records. The album's last song, "Trilogy of Knowledge", is split into four separate parts and tells of the life of Jesus Christ. The lyrics recount events from the Bible (often expressed in first person), and include opera vocals, orchestral instruments, acoustic guitars, distorted guitars, and more. Although the album was critically lauded, the band disbanded the following year, but reformed in 2005.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]  The original score was composed by Neely and recorded at British Grove Studios with the London Metropolitan Orchestra.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]  Dimensions is a 2011 science fiction-love story film set in the 1920s and 1930s. The film was directed by Sloane U’Ren and written by her spouse Ant Neely. The film is U’Ren’s feature film directorial debut and is also known as Dimensions: A Line, A Loop, A Tangle of Threads. Dimensions premiered as part of the 2011 Cambridge Film Festival (U.K.) and outsold, per screen, the U.K. premieres of Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy, The Help and Midnight in Paris. After the Cambridge screenings, the film underwent a minor re-edit and was finished in early 2012. Dimensions was voted Best Film 2012 at the 37th Boston Science Fiction Film Festival and awarded the Gort Award. Previous Gort Award winners have included Duncan Jones' Moon. The film went on to win Best Film at the London Independent Film Festival and Best Film at the Long Island International Film Expo. Director Sloane U'Ren was also awarded Best Director at the Long Island International Film Expo.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]  the band's most technical, progressive, and ambitious album. Both Roadrunner Records and R.E.X. Records released it with a different cover art. The lyrics on Dimensions deal with philosophy. For example, on the song "Dimentia" the lyrics deal with the philosophical paradoxes and the ponderings of Sigmund Freud, Thomas J. J. Altizer, Ludwig Feuerbach and Jean-Paul Sartre about the existence of God. The song specifically quotes Altizer's The Gospel of Christian Atheism, Sartre's Being and Nothingness, Feuerbach's The Essence of Christianity, and Freud's Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion. The symphonic metal suite ”Trilogy of Knowledge”, divided to three chapters and an intro, is an over 20 minute epic and Biblical story about life of Jesus Christ and knowledge of good and evil. ”Trilogy of Knowledge” once again featured the orchestral compositions of Scott Laird and soprano vocals by Julianne Laird Hoge.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP] The 5th Dimension  The 5th Dimension is an American popular music vocal group, whose repertoire includes pop, R&B, soul, jazz, light opera, and Broadway.  Formed as the Versatiles in late 1965, the group changed its name to "the 5th Dimension" by 1966. Between 1967 and 1973 they charted with 20 top 40 hits on "Billboard"'s Hot 100, two of which – "Up, Up and Away" (no. 7, 1967) and the 1969 number one "Medley: Aquarius/Let the Sunshine In (The Flesh Failures)" — won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year. Other big hits include "Stoned Soul Picnic" (no. 3), "Wedding Bell Blues" (no. 1), "One Less Bell to Answer" (no. 2), a cover of "Never My Love" (pop no. 12/Easy Listening no. 1), "(Last Night) I Didn't Get to Sleep at All" (no. 8), and "If I Could Reach You" (pop no. 10/Easy Listening no. 1). Three of their records reached the top ten of "Billboard"'s Rhythm & Blues/Soul chart. Five of their 19 top 20 hits on the Easy Listening chart reached number one.  The five original members were Lamonte McLemore, Marilyn McCoo, Florence LaRue, Ronald Townson, and Billy Davis Jr. Their earliest recordings were on the Soul City record label, which was started by recording artist Johnny Rivers. The group later recorded for Bell/Arista Records, ABC Records, and Motown Records.  Some of the songwriters who worked with the 5th Dimension went on to careers of their own, especially Ashford & Simpson, who wrote the song "California Soul". The group is also notable for having more success with the songs of Laura Nyro than Nyro did herself, particularly with "Stoned Soul Picnic", "Sweet Blindness", "Wedding Bell Blues", "Blowin' Away" and "Save the Country". The group also recorded songs by well-known songwriters including Burt Bacharach and Hal David ("One Less Bell to Answer") and Jimmy Webb, who wrote "Up, Up and Away". The group's 1967 LP "The Magic Garden" features all but one song composed by Webb.  The 5th Dimension's producer Bones Howe used Bob Alcivar as the singers' vocal arranger as well as instrumental backing by the Wrecking Crew for their recording sessions.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP] Flatland  Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions is a satirical novella by the English schoolmaster Edwin Abbott Abbott, first published in 1884 by Seeley & Co. of London. Written pseudonymously by "A Square", the book used the fictional two-dimensional world of Flatland to comment on the hierarchy of Victorian culture, but the novella's more enduring contribution is its examination of dimensions.<ref name="isbn0-465-01123-3 1"/>  Several films have been made from the story, including the feature film "Flatland" (2007). Other efforts have been short or experimental films, including one narrated by Dudley Moore and the short films "" (2007) and "" (2012).
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP] Dimension (musician)  Robert Etheridge (born 8 October 1991), better known by his stage name Dimension, is an English DJ, record producer, songwriter, musician and engineer from London. He has been releasing records since 2012, and on 5 March 2021, he released his debut album Organ. He has previously collaborated with other producers, including Sub Focus, Culture Shock, Cyantific, and Wilkinson.
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP] Dimensions (Freedom Call album)  Dimensions is the fifth full-length album by the German power metal band Freedom Call. It was released on April 20, 2007. Stylistically, the album combines the up-tempo and melodic elements of the "Eternity" album with the more contemporary sound of "The Circle of Life" album. The mixing and mastering of the album was by Tommy Newton of Victory. It is a concept album set in a post-apocalyptic world, in the year 3051, in which a demon created by mankind has completely ravaged the world. The Japanese version includes the bonus track "The Quest (Unplugged Version)".
What genre is Dimensions? [SEP]
What genre is Astro? [SEP]  Astro is the first album of long duration (after the EP Le disc of Astrou) of Chilean indie band Astro, released in 2011. The first single from the album was "Ciervos" and followed "Colombo", "Panda" and "Manglares". This album was chosen by National Public Radio among the 50 discs of 2012.
What genre is Astro? [SEP]  The quartet released its first full-length album, Astro, in 2011. Despite being entirely in Spanish, the album received attention from American music critics. NPR Music featured the album as part of its First Listen series in 2012. Jasmine Garsd called Astro one of her favorite albums, referring to it as "infectiously cheery, lighthearted and danceable." She described them as musical cognates with American bands such as MGMT, Animal Collective, and Passion Pit. In 2013, Astro performed at Lollapalooza Chicago, Primavera Sound, Mysteryland, and many others festivals. The song "Panda" was featured on the soundtrack of FIFA 13, the EA Sports video game.
What genre is Astro? [SEP]  Astro Battle is a science fiction multi-directional shooter developed and published by American studio Lava Lord Games for Microsoft Windows and Linux. The gameplay focuses on players designing star fighters to fight against other players' ships in an overhead melee. Development is continuous; New ships and weapons are continuously added, and a sequel to Astro Battle is available for beta testing. The basic gameplay in the sequel remains the same, and adds in-game tutorials, new design tools, a new 3d graphics engine, and support for Linux.
What genre is Astro? [SEP]  S.S. Astro (教艦ASTRO) is a Japanese four-panel comic strip manga by Negi Banno about the lives of female teachers within a school at which they teach. The "Astro" in the title is actually an acronym abbreviating "Asahio Sogo Teacher's ROom", alluding to the school's name Asahio Sogo. The original title, Kyōkan Astro, plays on the fact that kyōkan (教官) is 'instructor' in Japanese, but the title uses the kanji kan (艦) meaning 'warship' in place of kan (官) meaning 'government service'. The manga started serialization in Houbunsha's seinen manga magazine Manga Time Kirara Carat on February 24, 2005, and the first bound volume was released on February 27, 2007. However, the manga has not appeared in the magazine since November 28, 2007. Yen Press licensed the series for release in English, and released the first volume on August 12, 2008.
What genre is Astro? [SEP]  Astro's Playroom is a 3D platforming video game. It was developed by Japan Studio's Team Asobi division and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 5. The game is a sequel to Astro Bot Rescue Mission and comes pre-installed on every console, serving additionally as a free tech demo for the DualSense controller. The game was announced on 11 June 2020, at the PlayStation 5 reveal event. It was released on 12 November 2020, in select territories, and worldwide on 19 November 2020.
What genre is Astro? [SEP] Astro (South Korean band)  Astro () is a South Korean boy band formed by Fantagio that debuted in 2016. The group is composed of six members: MJ, Jinjin, Cha Eun-woo, Moon Bin, Rocky and Yoon San-ha. They debuted with the single "Hide & Seek" from their debut EP "Spring Up", and were subsequently named by "Billboard" as one of the best new K-pop groups of 2016.
What genre is Astro? [SEP] Astro Boy  Astro Boy, known in Japan by its original name , is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Osamu Tezuka. It was serialized in Kobunsha's "Shōnen" from 1952 to 1968. The 112 chapters were collected into 23 "tankōbon" volumes by Akita Shoten. Dark Horse Comics published an English translation in 2002. The story follows Astro Boy, an android young boy with human emotions who is created by Umataro Tenma after the recent death of his son Tobio. Eventually, Astro is sold to a robot circus run by Hamegg, but is saved from his servitude by Professor Ochanomizu. Astro becomes a surrogate son to Ochanomizu who creates a robotic family for Astro and helps him to live a normal life like an average human boy, while accompanying him on adventures.  "Astro Boy" has been adapted into three anime series produced respectively by the first incarnation of Mushi Production and its direct successor Tezuka Productions, with a fourth in development. The manga was originally produced for TV as "Astro Boy", the first popular animated Japanese television series that embodied the aesthetic that later became familiar worldwide as "anime". After enjoying success abroad, "Astro Boy" was remade in the 1980s as "New Mighty Atom", known as "Astroboy" in other countries, and again in 2003. In November 2007, he was named Japan's envoy for overseas safety. An American computer-animated film based on the original manga series by Tezuka was released on October 23, 2009. In March 2015, a trailer was released announcing a new animated series. The success of the manga and anime series led it to becoming a major media franchise consisting of films including a major motion picture, a number of soundtracks and a library of video games. The series was also among the first to embrace mass merchandise including action figures, collectible figurines, food products, clothing, stamps and trading cards. By 2004, the franchise had generated in merchandise sales.  Astro Boy is one of the most successful manga and anime franchises in the world and has become Tezuka's most famous creation. The combined 23 "tankōbon" volumes have sold over 100 million copies worldwide, making it Tezuka's best-selling manga and one of the best-selling manga series of all time. The 1963 anime series became a hit on television in Japan and the United States. "Astro Boy" has been praised for its importance in developing the anime and manga industry. It has been featured on numerous greatest anime of all time lists and has inspired many other influential authors in the creation of manga.
What genre is Astro? [SEP] Astro Boy (film)  Astro Boy is a 2009 computer-animated superhero film loosely based on the manga series of the same name by the Japanese writer and illustrator Osamu Tezuka. Produced by the Hong Kong-based company Imagi Animation Studios, it was directed by David Bowers, who co-wrote the screenplay with Timothy Hyde Harris. The film stars Freddie Highmore, Kristen Bell, Nathan Lane, Eugene Levy, Matt Lucas, Bill Nighy, Samuel L. Jackson, Donald Sutherland, Charlize Theron, and Nicolas Cage.  The film was first released in Hong Kong on October 8, 2009, and in the United States on October 23, 2009. It received generally mixed reviews from film critics and was a financial failure, earning worldwide against its budget. As a result of the film's poor performance, Imagi absorbed into Blockade Entertainment on February 5, 2010, and "Astro Boy" became the final film produced by the studio.
What genre is Astro? [SEP] UB40  UB40 are an English reggae and pop band, formed in December 1978 in Birmingham, England. The band has had more than 50 singles in the UK Singles Chart, and has also achieved considerable international success. They have been nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Reggae Album four times, and in 1984 were nominated for the Brit Award for Best British Group. UB40 have sold over 70 million records worldwide. The ethnic make-up of the band's original line-up was diverse, with musicians of English, Welsh, Irish, Jamaican, Scottish, and Yemeni parentage.  Their hit singles include their debut "Food for Thought" and two "Billboard" Hot 100 number ones with "Red Red Wine" and "Can't Help Falling in Love". Both of these also topped the UK Singles Chart, as did the band's version of "I Got You Babe". Their two most successful albums, "Labour of Love" (1983) and "Promises and Lies" (1993), reached number one on the UK Albums Chart. UB40 and the English ska band Madness hold the record for most weeks spent by a group in the UK singles chart during the 1980s, with 214 weeks each.  The band's line-up was stable for nearly 29 years, from March 1979 until January 2008, when frontman Ali Campbell left the band, followed shortly thereafter by keyboardist Mickey Virtue. Another member, Astro, remained with the band until November 2013, when he departed the original band to team up with Campbell and Virtue in a new version of UB40. In 2014, legal advice was sought by the original band (now consisting of remaining co-founding members drummer Jimmy Brown, guitarist Robin Campbell, bassist Earl Falconer, percussionist Norman Hassan, and saxophonist Brian Travers, along with new vocalist Duncan Campbell) who took action against the group containing Campbell, Virtue, and Astro over usage of the band name, due to it being used by both parties. On 5 July 2021, it was announced that Matt Doyle (formerly of the reggae band Kioko) would become the band's new vocalist, following Duncan Campbell's retirement due to ill health. Travers died from cancer on 22 August 2021, and Astro died on 6 November 2021 following a short illness.
What genre is Astro? [SEP] Astro's Playroom  Astro's Playroom is a platform video game developed by Japan Studio's Team Asobi division and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 5. A sequel to "Astro Bot Rescue Mission," the game comes pre-installed on every console, serving additionally as a free tech demo for the DualSense controller.  The game was announced on 11 June 2020 at the PlayStation 5 reveal event. It was released on 12 November 2020.  Alongside "Demon's Souls", "Astro's Playroom" was the final game released by Japan Studio before their dissolution in April 2021. Team Asobi was formally spun off into an independent studio within Sony's PlayStation Studios in June 2021.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP]  A CD album containing the soundtrack accompanying the film, composed by Michèle Bokanowski, the director's wife, was released during 2003 by the label trAace under the title L'Ange.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Best Film at London Sci-Fi Film Festival Sci-fi-london, ; Best Film at Newport Beach Film Festival ; Best Film at Show Off Your Shorts Film Festival ; Audience Award at Fantasia Film Festival, ; Best Film at Long Island Film Festival ; Best Film at California Film Festival, ; 10 Degrees Hotter Award at The Valley Film Festival
What genre is The Angel? [SEP]  The Angel is a 2007 short sci-fi martial arts horror film directed by Paul Hough starring Eddie McGee, Celine Tien and Thomy Kessler. It was inspired by Eddie McGee, a disabled actor who was trained in wire-work. The short film received multiple film festival awards.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Filmthreat.com
What genre is The Angel? [SEP]  Angel (2008) is a teen fantasy novel about a fourteen-year-old girl, Freya, whose life is shaped by two angels: Hestron, bright, beautiful, surrounded by a mane of golden sunshine, and Mestraal, so impenetrably dark that nearly everything is erased by its shadow. Unusually in McNish's fiction, Angel incorporates gritty elements of teen angst and bullying, as well as a moral debate about how to behave in the world. Angel was shortlisted for the North East Teenage fiction Award and the Tayshas Reading List.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Angel Olsen  Angel Olsen (born Angelina Maria Carroll; January 22, 1987) is an American singer-songwriter and musician from St. Louis, Missouri who lives in Asheville, North Carolina.  To date, Olsen has released six studio albums: "Half Way Home" (2012), "Burn Your Fire for No Witness" (2014), "My Woman" (2016), "All Mirrors" (2019), "Whole New Mess" (2020), and "Big Time" (2022).
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] The Angels (Australian band)  The Angels are an Australian rock band which formed in Adelaide in 1974 as The Keystone Angels by Bernard "Doc" Neeson on lead vocals and bass guitar, John Brewster on rhythm guitar and backing vocals, his brother Rick Brewster on lead guitar and backing vocals, Peter "Charlie" King on drums. In 1976, King was replaced by Graham "Buzz" Bidstrup on drums, Chris Bailey took over bass duties so Neeson could focus solely on vocals, and they changed their name to just 'The Angels'. Their studio albums peaking within the Australian top 10 are "No Exit" (1979), "Dark Room" (1980), "Night Attack" (1981), "Two Minute Warning" (1984), "Howling" (1986) and "Beyond Salvation" (1990). Their top 20 singles are "No Secrets" (1980), "Into the Heat" (1981), "We Gotta Get out of This Place" (1987), "Am I Ever Gonna See Your Face Again" (live, 1988), "Let the Night Roll On" and "Dogs Are Talking" (both 1990).  In the international market, to avoid legal problems with similarly named acts, their records have been released under the names, Angel City and later The Angels from Angel City, yet the band has said numerous times that they dislike these names. The Angels have been cited by Guns N' Roses and Cheap Trick who became friends and touring buddies, Great White who have covered two of their songs, and Seattle grunge band Pearl Jam among many others, as having influenced their music. Neeson left the group in 1999 due to spinal injuries sustained in a car accident and they disbanded in the following year. Subsequently, competing versions of the group performed using the Angels name, until April 2008 when the original 1970s line-up reformed for a series of tours until 2011, when Neeson and Bidstrup left again. Alternative versions continued with new members, the current line up featuring the founding Brewster Brothers on lead and rhythm guitar and Screaming Jets vocalist Dave Gleeson.  The Angels were inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame in October 1998 with the line-up of Bailey, John and Rick Brewster, Eccles and Neeson. Australian musicologist, Ian McFarlane, declared that "The Angels had a profound effect on the Australian live music scene of the late 1970s/early 1980s. [They] helped redefine the Australian pub rock tradition... [their] brand of no-frills, hard-driving boogie rock attracted pub goers in unprecedented numbers. In turn, The Angels' shows raised the standard expected of live music. After 20 years on the road, the band showed little sign of easing up on the hard rock fever."<ref name="McFarlane" /> Chris Bailey died on 4 April 2013, aged 62, after being diagnosed with throat cancer. Doc Neeson died on 4 June 2014, aged 67, of a brain tumour.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Angel Witch  Angel Witch are a British heavy metal band which formed in London in 1976 as part of the new wave of British heavy metal (NWOBHM) movement.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Morbid Angel  Morbid Angel is an American death metal band based in Tampa, Florida, formed in 1983 by guitarist, primary composer and sole remaining original member Trey Azagthoth, vocalist and bassist Dallas Ward, and drummer Mike Browning. Widely considered one of the most influential bands in the genre and important in the transition of death metal from its thrash metal roots, they were one of the first bands to incorporate guttural vocals, up-tempo blast beats, multiple tempo changes and a dark atmosphere. They have been described as one of "the most influential and emulated bands in death metal", alongside Obituary, Death, Cynic, Autopsy and Deicide, and have been cited as an influence by many later bands. They were also the first death metal band to experience mainstream success in connection with being signed to Giant Records in 1992, heavy rotation of their music videos on MTV, and having the music video for the song "God of Emptiness" shown on an episode of "Beavis and Butt-Head". Their first three albums – "Altars of Madness" (1989), "Blessed Are the Sick" (1991), and "Covenant" (1993) – are considered classics in the genre.  British music magazine "Terrorizer" ranked "Altars of Madness" first in its list "Top 40 greatest death metal albums". "Decibel" magazine also rated guitarist Trey Azagthoth as the number one "death metal guitarist ever". The band's songs are complex in arrangement, owing to the considerable technical skills of both Azagthoth as well as drummer Pete Sandoval, the latter of whom also played in the grindcore band Terrorizer. According to Nielsen SoundScan, Morbid Angel is the third best-selling death metal band in the United States (after Cannibal Corpse and Deicide up until 2003 with sales of over 445,000), with their third album "Covenant" being the best-selling death metal album of the Soundscan era with over 150,000 units sold.  The band's original lyrical themes, when helmed by Vincent (and Azagthoth and Browning respectively) focused mostly on Satanism, occultism and blasphemous subject matter, but from "Formulas Fatal to the Flesh" onward, via Azagthoth's influence, the lyrics moved toward the ancient Sumerian gods. Much of this is a nod to the Simon Necronomicon, which was influenced by Sumerian mythology, the author H. P. Lovecraft, and fascination with the Roman Empire, and during Steve Tucker's tenure they take on more anti-religious and barbaric themes, namely of the strong overcoming the weak. Their albums are notable for being released in alphabetical order, with guitarist Trey Azagthoth commenting that it was a coincidence regarding the first two albums, but that it has been done consciously since then.
What genre is The Angel? [SEP] Angel (1999 TV series)  Angel is an American television series, a spinoff of the supernatural drama series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer". The series was created by "Buffy"s creator, writer and director Joss Whedon, in collaboration with David Greenwalt. It aired on The WB from October 5, 1999, to May 19, 2004, consisting of five seasons and 110 episodes. Like "Buffy", it was produced by Whedon's production company, Mutant Enemy.  The show details the ongoing trials of Angel, a vampire whose human soul was restored to him by a Romani curse as a punishment for the murder of one of their own. After more than a century of murder and the torture of innocents, Angel's restored soul torments him with guilt and remorse. Angel moves to Los Angeles, California, after it is clear that his doomed relationship with Buffy, the vampire slayer, cannot continue. During the majority of the show, he works as a private detective in L.A., where he and a variety of associates work to "help the helpless", restoring the faith and saving the souls of those who have lost their way. While he must also battle his own demonic nature, he typically battles with evil demons or humans allied to them, primarily related to Wolfram & Hart, a law firm supported by occult practices which is an extension of otherworldly demonic forces.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP]  Tempting Danger, by Eileen Wilks, is the first full-length release and first novel in the World of the Lupi series. It premiered on October 5, 2004. Tempting Danger was nominated for the 2004 Romantic Times Reviewers' Choice Award in the category contemporary paranormal romance.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP]  This romantic suspense novel revisits the characters and world introduced in the short story "Only Human" in the Lover Beware anthology, but it covers very different territory. It expands the original story and ends up taking the characters in different directions than the original short story.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] Rare Cuts (2003)
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP]  This romantic suspense novel is the first novel Eileen Wilks wrote set in the World of the Lupi. After her editor (and the fans) enjoyed it so much Eileen asked if she could expand this short story into a full-blown series. Tempting Danger expands on this story and ends up taking the characters in different directions than the original short story.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP]  Danger Signal is a 1939 thriller novel by the British writer Phyllis Bottome. Typist Hilda Fenchurch broods over her failed love affair with medical student Ronnie Mason, and is disturbed when she discovers that he has now turning his attention towards her younger sister. Fearful of the exposure of her own affair, she resolves to murder him. It was originally published under the alternative title of Murder in the Bud.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] Tempting Danger  Tempting Danger, by Eileen Wilks, is the first full-length release and first novel in the "World of the Lupi" series. It premiered on October 5, 2004.  "Tempting Danger" was nominated for the 2004 Romantic Times Reviewers' Choice Award in the category contemporary paranormal romance.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] Mortal Danger  Mortal Danger by Eileen Wilks is the 4th novel in the World of the Lupi series. It was released on November 1, 2005.  It was nominated for the 2005 Romantic Times Best Werewolf Romance Novel.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] Dangerous (Within Temptation song)  "Dangerous" is the second single from Dutch symphonic metal and rock band Within Temptation from their sixth studio album "Hydra". It was released exclusively to iTunes on 20 December 2013 with an accompanying music video. The song features guest vocals from ex-Killswitch Engage lead singer Howard Jones.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] The Horn of Mortal Danger  The Horn of Mortal Danger is a 1980 novel by British musician Lawrence Leonard. It relates the adventures of a brother and sister as they discover a secret civilisation buried beneath the streets of London. It is a 'classical' children's fantasy.
What genre is Tempting Danger? [SEP] Hydra (Within Temptation album)  Hydra is the sixth studio album by Dutch symphonic metal band Within Temptation. It was released on January 31, 2014 in Europe and on February 4, 2014 in North America. The album contains guest appearances by singer Howard Jones (ex-Killswitch Engage), rapper Xzibit, metal vocalist Tarja Turunen (ex-Nightwish) and alternative rock singer Dave Pirner (Soul Asylum). The first single, "Paradise (What About Us?)", was released on September 27, 2013, and featured Turunen as guest vocalist. The second single, "Dangerous", was released on December 20, in which Jones provided the male vocals.  This is the first album by Within Temptation to be recorded with three guitarists, with Stefan Helleblad making his Within Temptation studio debut on "Hydra" since his addition to the band shortly after the release of "The Unforgiving" in 2011. "Hydra" is also the first Within Temptation album to feature Robert Westerholt's growling techniques since the band's debut album, "Enter" in 1997.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP]  I'll Be There is a 2003 British-American comedy drama film directed and co-written by Craig Ferguson, who, in his directorial debut, also stars in the film with singer Charlotte Church in her film debut.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP]  "I Will Be There" is a song featured on Northern Irish singer/songwriter Van Morrison's sixth album Saint Dominic's Preview (1972). The song is also the B-side to Morrison's single "Warm Love", released in 1973.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] I Will Be There EP (1985)
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] I Will Be There EP (1985)
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP]  I'll Be There is the debut album of the Japanese singer Kiyotaka. The album was released by EXPRESS contains 13 songs and 1 hidden track. This album includes his biggest hit single "The Only One", which was used in the Japanese TV drama Pure Soul (Kimi ga boku wo wasuretemo).
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] There Will Be Blood  There Will Be Blood is a 2007 American period drama film written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson, loosely based on the 1927 novel "Oil!" by Upton Sinclair. It stars Daniel Day-Lewis as Daniel Plainview, a silver miner turned oilman on a ruthless quest for wealth during Southern California's oil boom of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Paul Dano, Kevin J. O'Connor, Ciarán Hinds, and Dillon Freasier co-star.  The film was produced by Ghoulardi Film Company and distributed by Paramount Vantage and Miramax Films. At the 2008 Berlin International Film Festival it won the Silver Bear Award for Best Director and a Special Artistic Contribution Award for Jonny Greenwood's score. It grossed $76.2 million worldwide on a $25 million budget.  "There Will Be Blood" received acclaim for its cinematography, direction, screenplay, score, and the performances of Day-Lewis and Dano. Day-Lewis won the Academy Award, BAFTA, Golden Globe, Screen Actors Guild, NYFCC and IFTA Best Leading Actor awards for the role. It has been widely regarded by critics as one of the greatest films of the 21st century, and it appeared on many critics' "top ten" lists for 2007, including the American Film Institute, the National Society of Film Critics, the , and the Los Angeles Film Critics Association. At the 80th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for eight Oscars (tying with another Miramax/Paramount Vantage co-production "No Country for Old Men"). The nominations included Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay for Anderson. Along with Day-Lewis' Oscar for Best Actor, Robert Elswit won the award for Best Cinematography.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] I'll Be There (Jackson 5 song)  "I'll Be There" is the first single released on "Third Album" by The Jackson 5. It was written by Berry Gordy, Hal Davis, Bob West, and Willie Hutch.  The song was recorded by The Jackson 5 and released by Motown Records on August 28, 1970, as the first single from their "Third Album" on the same date. Produced by the songwriters, "I'll Be There" was The Jackson 5's fourth number-one hit in a row (after "I Want You Back" in 1969, "ABC" and "The Love You Save" earlier in 1970), making them the first group to have their first four singles reach number one and the first black male group with four consecutive number-one pop hits. "I'll Be There" is also notable as the most successful single released by Motown during its "Detroit era" (1959–72). In 2011, the song was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame.  The cover version/duet by Mariah Carey and Trey Lorenz was recorded during Carey's appearance on "MTV Unplugged" in 1992, and released as the first single from her EP "MTV Unplugged" in the second quarter of 1992. Co-produced by Carey and Walter Afanasieff, "I'll Be There" became Carey's sixth number-one single in the US, and her biggest hit elsewhere at the time.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] Will You Be There  "Will You Be There" is a song by Michael Jackson which was released as a single on June 28, 1993. The song is the eighth single from the 1991 album "Dangerous". The song gained recognition for its appearance on the soundtrack to the film "Free Willy" (1993), under the title "Will You Be There (Theme from "Free Willy")", of which it is the main theme, and was also included in the album "All Time Greatest Movie Songs" and video game "". With the album version clocking in at seven minutes and forty-one seconds, it is the longest song in Michael Jackson's solo discography.  "Will You Be There" became yet another successful single from "Dangerous", peaking at number seven on the "Billboard" Hot 100, selling 1,000,000 copies and earning a platinum certification. Outside of the United States, "Will You Be There" peaked within the top ten of the charts in Belgium, Canada, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Republic of Ireland, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] Music genre  A music genre is a conventional category that identifies some pieces of music as belonging to a shared tradition or set of conventions. It is to be distinguished from "musical form" and musical style, although in practice these terms are sometimes used interchangeably.  Music can be divided into genres in varying ways, such as popular music and art music, or religious music and secular music. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often subjective and controversial, and some genres may overlap.
What genre is I Will Be There? [SEP] List of genres  This is a list of genres of literature and entertainment (film, television, music, and video games), excluding .   "Genre" is the term for any category of creative work, which includes literature and other forms of art or entertainment (e.g. music)—whether written or spoken, audio or visual—based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]  Detour for Emmy received the South Carolina Book Award for Young Adult Book Award in 1996. It was one of the American Library Association's Best Books for Young Adults for 1993. The American Library Association named it the 83nd-most banned and challenged book in the United States between 2000 and 2009, as well as the sixth most challenged book in 2005. The explicit nature of the content caused it to be removed from the El Mirage, Arizona School District libraries.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]  Detour for Emmy is a young adult novel by Marilyn Reynolds, published in 1993 by Morning Glory Press. It deals with the impact of an unexpected pregnancy on a teenage girl. Like other novels by the author, it is based on the life challenges of her students.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]  Several of the Hamilton High series books have been included in the American Library Association's "Best Books for Young Adults," including Too Soon For Jeff and Detour for Emmy and "Best Books for Reluctant Readers." Detour for Emmy received the South Carolina Young Adult Book Award in 1996. Love Rules was a finalist both for a Lambda award and the Benjamin Franklin Award. Six of her books have been given the New York Public Library's designation "Best Books for the Teen Age"
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]  The Detour is an American sitcom that was created by Jason Jones and Samantha Bee about a family vacation road trip that quickly devolves out of control. It stars Jones himself, Natalie Zea, Ashley Gerasimovich and Liam Carroll. The series aired on TBS from April 11, 2016 to August 20, 2019. The show was renewed for a second season on April 6, 2016, five days prior to the series premiere. The second season premiered on February 21, 2017. On April 25, 2017, TBS renewed the series for a third season. On May 11, 2018, the series was renewed for a fourth season, which premiered on June 18, 2019. On September 4, 2019, TBS canceled the series after four seasons.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]  TBS ordered the pilot, written by Jason Jones and Samantha Bee in October 2014. The show is based on the real life couple's own experience with family vacations. It was picked up for ten episodes in February 2015. On April 6, 2016, the show was renewed for a second season before the premiere.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP] Detour for Emmy  Detour for Emmy is a young adult novel by Marilyn Reynolds, published in 1993 by Morning Glory Press. It deals with the impact of an unexpected pregnancy on a teenage girl. Like other novels by the author, it is based on the life challenges of her students.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP] Marilyn Reynolds  Marilyn Reynolds (born September 13, 1935) is an American author specialising in young adult fiction.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP] The Amazing Race  The Amazing Race is an adventure reality game show franchise in which teams of two people race around the world in competition with other teams. The "Race" is split into legs, with teams tasked to deduce clues, navigate themselves in foreign areas, interact with locals, and perform physical and mental challenges that often highlight aspects of a location's culture, history, or economy. Over the course of the "Race", teams travel by airplanes, helicopters, trucks, bicycles, taxicabs, cars, trains, buses, boats and by foot. Teams are progressively eliminated at the end of most legs for being the last to arrive at designated Pit Stops, until only three remain. The first team to arrive at the finish line is awarded the grand prize.  Created by Elise Doganieri and Bertram van Munster, the original series has aired in the United States since 2001 and has earned thirteen Primetime Emmy Awards, ten of them for "Outstanding Reality-Competition Program". Emmy-award-winning New Zealand television personality Phil Keoghan has been the host of the American version of the show since its inception. The show has branched out to include a number of international versions following a similar format.
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]
What genre is Detour for Emmy? [SEP]
What genre is Drama? [SEP]  In film and television, drama is a category of narrative fiction (or semi-fiction) intended to be more serious than humorous in tone. Drama of this kind is usually qualified with additional terms that specify its particular super-genre, macro-genre, or micro-genre, such as soap opera (operatic drama), police crime drama, political drama, legal drama, historical drama, domestic drama, teen drama, and comedy-drama (dramedy). These terms tend to indicate a particular setting or subject-matter, or else they qualify the otherwise serious tone of a drama with elements that encourage a broader range of moods. To these ends, a primary element in a drama is the occurrence of conflict - emotional, social, or otherwise - and its resolution in the course of the storyline. All
What genre is Drama? [SEP]  A sub-type of drama films that uses plots that appeal to the heightened emotions of the audience. Melodramatic plots often deal with "crises of human emotion, failed romance or friendship, strained familial situations, tragedy, illness, neuroses, or emotional and physical hardship". Film critics sometimes use the term "pejoratively to connote an unrealistic, pathos-filled, camp tale of romance or domestic situations with stereotypical characters (often including a central female character) that would directly appeal to feminine audiences". Also called "women's movies", "weepies", tearjerkers, or "chick flicks". If they are targeted to a male audience, then they are called "guy cry" films. Often considered "soap-opera" drama.
What genre is Drama? [SEP]  A macro-genre in the Screenwriters Taxonomy. These films tell where many of the central characters are related. The story revolves around how the family as a whole reacts to a central challenge. There are four micro-genres for the Family Drama: Family Bond, Family Feud, Family Loss, and Family Rift.
What genre is Drama? [SEP]  Some film categories that use the word “comedy” or “drama” are not recognized by the Screenwriters Taxonomy as either a film genre or a film type. For instance, “Melodrama” and “Screwball Comedy” are considered Pathways,  while “Romantic Comedy” and “Family Drama” are macro-genres.
What genre is Drama? [SEP]  A serious story that contains some characters or scenes inherently humorous to the audience. Examples: The Best Exotic Marigold Hotel (2011), The Man Without a Past (2002), Silver Linings Playbook (2012), Three Colours: White (1994) and The Truman Show (1998).
What genre is Drama? [SEP] Drama (film and television)  In film and television, drama is a category or genre of narrative fiction (or semi-fiction) intended to be more serious than humorous in tone. Drama of this kind is usually qualified with additional terms that specify its particular super-genre, macro-genre, or micro-genre,<ref name=":0" /> such as soap opera, police crime drama, political drama, legal drama, historical drama, domestic drama, teen drama, and comedy-drama (dramedy). These terms tend to indicate a particular setting or subject-matter, or else they qualify the otherwise serious tone of a drama with elements that encourage a broader range of moods. To these ends, a primary element in a drama is the occurrence of conflict—emotional, social, or otherwise—and its resolution in the course of the storyline.  All forms of cinema or television that involve fictional stories are forms of drama in the broader sense if their storytelling is achieved by means of actors who represent (mimesis) characters. In this broader sense, drama is a mode distinct from novels, short stories, and narrative poetry or songs. In the modern era before the birth of cinema or television, "drama" within theatre was a type of play that was neither a comedy nor a tragedy. It is this narrower sense that the film and television industries, along with film studies, adopted. "Radio drama" has been used in both senses—originally transmitted in a live performance, it has also been used to describe the more high-brow and serious end of the dramatic output of radio.
What genre is Drama? [SEP] Drama  Drama is the specific mode of fiction represented in performance: a play, opera, mime, ballet, etc., performed in a theatre, or on radio or television. Considered as a genre of poetry in general, the dramatic mode has been contrasted with the epic and the lyrical modes ever since Aristotle's "Poetics" (c. 335 BC)—the earliest work of dramatic theory. The term "drama" comes from a Greek word meaning "deed" or "act" (Classical Greek: , "drâma"), which is derived from "I do" (Classical Greek: , "dráō"). The two masks associated with drama represent the traditional generic division between comedy and tragedy.  In English (as was the analogous case in many other European languages), the word "play" or "game" (translating the Anglo-Saxon "pleġan" or Latin "ludus") was the standard term for dramas until William Shakespeare's time—just as its creator was a "play-maker" rather than a "dramatist" and the building was a "play-house" rather than a "theatre".  The use of "drama" in a more narrow sense to designate a specific "type" of play dates from the modern era. "Drama" in this sense refers to a play that is "neither" a comedy nor a tragedy—for example, Zola's "Thérèse Raquin" (1873) or Chekhov's "Ivanov" (1887). It is this narrower sense that the film and television industries, along with film studies, adopted to describe "drama" as a genre within their respective media. The term ”radio drama“ has been used in both senses—originally transmitted in a live performance. May also refer to the more high-brow and serious end of the dramatic output of radio.  The enactment of drama in theatre, performed by actors on a stage before an audience, presupposes collaborative modes of production and a collective form of reception. The structure of dramatic texts, unlike other forms of literature, is directly influenced by this collaborative production and collective reception.  Mime is a form of drama where the action of a story is told only through the movement of the body. Drama can be combined with music: the dramatic text in opera is generally sung throughout; as for in some ballets dance "expresses or imitates emotion, character, and narrative action". Musicals include both spoken dialogue and songs; and some forms of drama have incidental music or musical accompaniment underscoring the dialogue (melodrama and Japanese Nō, for example). Closet drama is a form that is intended to be read, rather than performed. In improvisation, the drama does not pre-exist the moment of performance; performers devise a dramatic script spontaneously before an audience.
What genre is Drama? [SEP] List of genres  This is a list of genres of literature and entertainment (film, television, music, and video games), excluding .   "Genre" is the term for any category of creative work, which includes literature and other forms of art or entertainment (e.g. music)—whether written or spoken, audio or visual—based on some set of stylistic criteria. Genres are formed by conventions that change over time as new genres are invented and the use of old ones are discontinued. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions.
What genre is Drama? [SEP] Psychological drama  Psychological drama or psychodrama is a sub-genre of drama that places emphasis on psychological elements. It often overlaps with other genres such as crime, fantasy, black comedy, and science fiction, and it is closely related with the psychological horror and psychological thriller genres. Psychological dramas use these genres' tropes to focus on the human condition and psychological effects, usually in a mature and serious tone.   Psychological dramas explore thematic elements such as abandonment, coming-of-age problems, denialism, disability, distorted sequences, dysfunctional relationships, human sexuality, mental disorders, mood swings, odd behaviors, post-traumatic stress disorder, psychological abuse, psychedelic art, social issues, and other serious discussions that highlight both issues of the characters' lives and reality.
What genre is Drama? [SEP] Tragedy  Tragedy (from the , "tragōidia") is a genre of drama based on human suffering and, mainly, the terrible or sorrowful events that befall a main character. Traditionally, the intention of tragedy is to invoke an accompanying catharsis, or a "pain [that] awakens pleasure", for the audience. While many cultures have developed forms that provoke this paradoxical response, the term "tragedy" often refers to a specific tradition of drama that has played a unique and important role historically in the self-definition of Western civilization. That tradition has been multiple and discontinuous, yet the term has often been used to invoke a powerful effect of cultural identity and historical continuity—"the Greeks and the Elizabethans, in one cultural form; Hellenes and Christians, in a common activity," as Raymond Williams puts it.  From its origins in the theatre of ancient Greece 2500 years ago, from which there survives only a fraction of the work of Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides, as well as many fragments from other poets, and the later Roman tragedies of Seneca; through its singular articulations in the works of Shakespeare, Lope de Vega, Jean Racine, and Friedrich Schiller to the more recent naturalistic tragedy of Henrik Ibsen and August Strindberg; Samuel Beckett's modernist meditations on death, loss and suffering; Heiner Müller postmodernist reworkings of the tragic canon, tragedy has remained an important site of cultural experimentation, negotiation, struggle, and change. A long line of philosophers—which includes Plato, Aristotle, Saint Augustine, Voltaire, Hume, Diderot, Hegel, Schopenhauer, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche, Freud, Benjamin, Camus, Lacan, and Deleuze—have analysed, speculated upon, and criticised the genre.  In the wake of Aristotle's "Poetics" (335 BCE), tragedy has been used to make genre distinctions, whether at the scale of poetry in general (where the tragic divides against epic and lyric) or at the scale of the drama (where tragedy is opposed to comedy). In the modern era, tragedy has also been defined against drama, melodrama, the tragicomic, and epic theatre. Drama, in the narrow sense, cuts across the traditional division between comedy and tragedy in an anti- or a-generic deterritorialisation from the mid-19th century onwards. Both Bertolt Brecht and Augusto Boal define their epic theatre projects (non-Aristotelian drama and Theatre of the Oppressed, respectively) against models of tragedy. Taxidou, however, reads epic theatre as an incorporation of tragic functions and its treatments of mourning and speculation.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]  Lisa Shaffer is an American country music singer. Formerly signed to Lyric Street Records, she released her debut single, "Just One," in May 2007. The song peaked at number 55 on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts. She is an alumna of Northern Kentucky University.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]  In the 21st century, a number of female authors, including Alison Tyler, Rachel Kramer Bussel, and Carol Queen, rose to prominence. Mitzi Szereto is an editor and author who said she wants to see the term erotica removed from novels and anthologies that include depictions of sexual activities. Other authors celebrate the term but also question why literature featuring sexual activity should be considered outside literary fiction. The debate was rekindled in 2012 by the release of the 50 Shades of Grey trilogy written by E. L. James. The success of her erotica for every woman, dubbed 'mommyporn', gave rise to satires like Fifty Shames of Earl Grey by 'Fanny Merkin' (real name Andrew Shaffer), a book of essays called Fifty Writers
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]  Lisa Lynne is a Celtic harpist, a composer and new-age recording artist. She is a self-proclaimed multi-instrumentalist who has "spent the last eighteen years pursuing her passion for the Celtic harp." Lynne released her first solo albums, starting in 1992, as Lisa Franco on the German label Innovative Communication. Also in the early 1990s, she became part of the group Celestial Winds, with David Young, releasing a number of albums. Since 1998, Lynne has released albums of Celtic harp music on New Earth Records, Windham Hill Records and her own label, Lavender Sky Music. Her 2003 release, Hopes & Dreames (New Earth) reached #6 on Billboard Magazine's Top New Age Albums chart. In 2002, Lynne became the first musician-in-residence at City of Hope National Cancer Center in Los Angeles. Her program "Hands on Harps," integrates music in the treatment programs at City of Hope. Music from her Love & Peace album was used in Alone in the Wilderness, a documentary from filmmaker Bob Swerer that aired on PBS, chronicling the life of Richard Proenneke in the Alaskan wilderness.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]  Lisa Daggs is an American multi-award-winning Christian music singer-songwriter and author based in Nashville, Tennessee She was born in Los Angeles, California, and was raised in Sacramento by her mother after her parents were divorced when she was ten. Trying to deal with the pressures of her teenage years and her parents' divorce, she eventually tried to ease her pain by medicating herself with drugs and alcohol.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]  Emily Shaffer is an American film actress, dancer, and audio book narrator.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP] Potocki–Shaffer syndrome  Potocki–Shaffer syndrome (PSS), also known as DEFECT11 syndrome or chromosome 11p11.2 deletion syndrome, is a rare contiguous gene syndrome that results from the microdeletion of section 11.2 on the short arm of chromosome 11 (11p11.2). The syndrome has its name from Dr. Lorraine (Lori) Potocki and Dr. Lisa Shaffer who discovered the deletion on the 11th chromosome and studied the impacts.  The deletion of this combination of genes results in several distinctive congenital features, occasional defects in the heart, kidneys, and urinary tract. The disorder is associated with an enlarged parietal foramina which can cause openings in the two bones that form the top and sides of the skull. These abnormal openings form extra "soft spots" on the head, in addition to the two that newborns normally have, and unlike the usual newborn soft spots, the enlarged parietal foramina remain open throughout life. Other signs can include multiple mostly noncancerous benign bone tumours called osteochondromas (exostosis), developmental delay, vision disorders and craniofacial abnormalities.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP]
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP] Paul Shaffer  Paul Allen Wood Shaffer  (born November 28, 1949) is a Canadian singer, composer, actor, author, comedian, and multi-instrumentalist who served as David Letterman's musical director, band leader, and sidekick on the entire run of both "Late Night with David Letterman" (1982–1993) and "Late Show with David Letterman" (1993–2015).
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP] And That's Why We Drink  And That's Why We Drink (ATWWD) is a comedy true crime and paranormal podcast created by Christine Schiefer and Em Schulz.  The show has been in production since February 2017. It updates every Sunday on a variety of podcast platforms as well as a YouTube channel where video recordings of the podcast's audio recording sessions have been uploaded since October 2019. Since its launch, the show has seen over eighty million downloads and has spawned two live tours through the United States and Canada.  In May 2019, and again in 2021, the podcast won People's Voice for Best Comedy Podcast at the 23rd and 25th Annual Webby Awards.  In March of 2022, Schiefer and Schultz launched a second podcast, "Rituals", produced by the Parcast podcasting network and streaming only on Spotify, which focuses on aspects of the occult, mystical and new age beliefs.   In late May of 2022, Schiefer and Schulz published their first book, "A Haunted Road Atlas", which debuted at #6 on the New York Times Best Sellers list for Advice, How-To and Miscellaneous works.
What genre is Lisa Shaffer? [SEP] Ne-Yo  Shaffer Chimere Smith (born October 18, 1979), known professionally as Ne-Yo, is an American singer, songwriter, actor, dancer, and record producer. He gained fame for his songwriting abilities when he penned Mario's 2004 hit "Let Me Love You". The single's successful release prompted a meeting between Ne-Yo and Def Jam's then-president Jay-Z, resulting in a long-tenured recording contract.  Ne-Yo's debut solo single, "Stay" (featuring Peedi Crakk), was released in 2005 to moderate success. His debut studio album, "In My Own Words" (2006), was critically and commercially successful, reaching number one on the "Billboard" 200 chart in the United States. It is certified platinum in the United States, United Kingdom, Japan and Australia and saw the success of the single "So Sick", which topped the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart in the United States.  "Because of You" (2007), Ne-Yo's second studio album, was the second number one platinum-selling album debuted on the "Billboard" 200 and Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums charts, and received the Grammy Award for Best Contemporary R&B Album at the 50th Grammy Awards. His third studio album, "Year of the Gentleman" (2008), saw continued success and further Grammy Award nominations for Best Contemporary R&B Album as well as Album of the Year. Its singles "Closer" and "Miss Independent" were also nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance, Best Male R&B Vocal Performance, and Best R&B Song. "Year of the Gentleman" has been certified platinum twice in the US, selling two million copies, also platinum three times in the UK and once in Japan.  "Libra Scale" (2010), Ne-Yo's fourth studio album, reached number one in the UK R&B Singles and Albums Charts and number nine on the US "Billboard" 200, seeing a decline in overall sales. His fifth studio album, "R.E.D." (2012), saw the international success of its lead single "Let Me Love You (Until You Learn to Love Yourself)", which certified platinum in the United States, became Ne-Yo's fifth chart-topping song in the United Kingdom, and sold over two million copies. Ne-Yo's sixth studio album, "Non-Fiction", followed in 2015. His seventh studio album, "Good Man", was released on June 8, 2018. In addition to music, Ne-Yo served as judge for the reality competition series "World of Dance" from 2017 to 2020 alongside Jennifer Lopez and Derek Hough. In 2021, Ne-Yo competed as Badger on the second season of "The Masked Singer UK," and finished in second place. His ninth studio album, "Self Explanatory", was released on July 15, 2022.
What genre is Gone? [SEP]  Gone Is Gone is an American rock supergroup formed in 2016. The band consists of Troy Sanders, singer and bassist of Mastodon, Troy Van Leeuwen, one of the guitarists of Queens of the Stone Age, Tony Hajjar, drummer of At the Drive-In, and Mike Zarin, a multi-instrumentalist and founder of Sencit Music who appeared with Van Leeuwen on Sweethead's Descent to the Surface. An eponymous EP was released on July 8, 2016, and the band released their debut album Echolocation on January 6, 2017. Their second album If Everything Happens for a Reason... Then Nothing Really Matters at All was released on December 4, 2020.
What genre is Gone? [SEP]  Gone: A Collection of EPs 2000-2007 is a compilation album by Japanese rock band Mono, released in 2007. It is a compilation of several EPs and non-album tracks, ordered chronologically. Limited to 3,000 copies, some of which are on colored vinyl.
What genre is Gone? [SEP]  Gone Is Gone's first full-length album released through Rise Records on January 6, 2017.
What genre is Gone? [SEP]  The Line of Best Fit wrote that "warm harmonies and click-clack percussion pervades everything and suffocates anything that might have been an interesting execution ... you can have any style of music you like as long as you want a profoundly beige, gloopy style of music." Alternative Press called the album "textured indie pop buoyed by tropical percussion, soulful crooning, quirky samples and atmospheric keyboards."
What genre is Gone? [SEP]  Gone is a 2012 American thriller film written by Allison Burnett, directed by Heitor Dhalia, and starring Amanda Seyfried. This is the last film theatrically released by Summit Entertainment before Lionsgate took over distribution. The film earned negative reviews from critics and was a box office disappointment.
What genre is Gone? [SEP] Gone (novel series)  Gone is a bestselling book series written by Michael Grant.  The series is centered on the fictional Southern California town of Perdido Beach, in which every human aged 15 and older vanishes. The town and surrounding areas become encased within an impenetrable barrier that burns to the touch, with many of its inhabitants developing supernatural powers. The books follow the exploits of the protagonist/hero, Sam Temple, as he battles antagonists Caine Soren, Drake Merwin, and Diana Ladris as well as a mysterious, malevolent creature, known as the Darkness or the Gaiaphage (gai-uh-fage) (derived from Gaia, a Greek personification of the Earth, and "phage", from the Greek φαγεῖν "" "to devour" or "worm").  The first novel in this series, titled "Gone", was published in 2008. The second book, "Hunger", was released a year later, followed by the third book, "Lies", on May 4, 2010. The fourth book, "Plague", was released on April 5, 2011. The fifth book, "Fear", was released on April 3, 2012, in the United States and the United Kingdom, although it was released as early as March 23 in Australia and Hong Kong. The sixth book, "Light", was released on April 2, 2013. The series – "a fun, no-brainer read directed towards teenagers" – has been hailed as "ridiculously popular" and "a sensation in the young adult world".  A planned "Monster Trilogy", also known as "Season Two", began on October 17, 2017 with the release of "Monster". It was set four years later from the events that took place in the other books. "Villain" was released on October 18, 2018 and "Hero" was released on October 1, 2019.
What genre is Gone? [SEP]
What genre is Gone? [SEP] Gone Girl (novel)  Gone Girl is a 2012 crime thriller novel by American writer Gillian Flynn. It was published by Crown Publishing Group in June 2012. The novel was popular and made the "New York Times" Best Seller list. The sense of suspense in the novel comes from whether Nick Dunne is responsible for the disappearance of his wife Amy.  Critics in the United States positively received and reviewed the novel, noting the author's use of unreliable narration, plot twists, and suspense.  A film adaptation was released on 3 October 2014, with screenplay by Flynn herself. It was directed by David Fincher, with Ben Affleck and Rosamund Pike in lead roles. The film enjoyed commercial success and widespread critical acclaim.
What genre is Gone? [SEP] Gone with the Wind (novel)  Gone with the Wind is a novel by American writer Margaret Mitchell, first published in 1936. The story is set in Clayton County and Atlanta, both in Georgia, during the American Civil War and Reconstruction Era. It depicts the struggles of young Scarlett O'Hara, the spoiled daughter of a well-to-do plantation owner, who must use every means at her disposal to claw her way out of poverty following Sherman's destructive "March to the Sea". This historical novel features a coming-of-age story, with the title taken from the poem "Non Sum Qualis eram Bonae Sub Regno Cynarae", written by Ernest Dowson.  "Gone with the Wind" was popular with American readers from the outset and was the top American fiction bestseller in 1936 and 1937. As of 2014, a Harris poll found it to be the second favorite book of American readers, just behind the Bible. More than 30 million copies have been printed worldwide.  "Gone with the Wind" is a controversial reference point for subsequent writers of the South, both black and white. Scholars at American universities refer to, interpret, and study it in their writings. The novel has been absorbed into American popular culture.  Mitchell received the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction for the book in 1937. It was adapted into the 1939 film of the same name, which has been considered to be one of the greatest movies ever made and also received the Academy Award for Best Picture during the 12th annual Academy Awards ceremony. "Gone with the Wind" is the only novel by Mitchell published during her lifetime.
What genre is Gone? [SEP] Gone Girl (film)  Gone Girl is a 2014 American psychological thriller film directed by David Fincher and written by Gillian Flynn, based on her 2012 novel of the same name. Set in Missouri, the story is a postmodern mystery that follows the events surrounding Nick Dunne (played by Ben Affleck), who becomes the prime suspect in the sudden disappearance of his wife, Amy (Rosamund Pike). The film also stars Neil Patrick Harris and Tyler Perry.  "Gone Girl" premiered as the opening film at the 52nd New York Film Festival on September 26, 2014, and was theatrically released in the United States on October 3, 2014 by 20th Century Fox. It was a critical and commercial success, grossing $369 million worldwide against a $61 million budget, to become Fincher's highest-grossing film.  Pike's performance was widely acclaimed by critics, and she received nominations for an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress. Additional nominations included a Golden Globe Award for Best Director for Fincher and Golden Globe Award, BAFTA, and Critics' Choice Award nominations for Flynn's adapted screenplay, which won at Critics' Choice.
What genre is Compass? [SEP]  During a sleepless night in Vienna, the musicologist Franz Ritter looks back on his life, his university career, his stays in the Orient, and his love, Sarah.
What genre is Compass? [SEP]   Compass ( Boussole ) is a novel by the French writer Mathias Enard, published in 2015. The book received the Prix Goncourt.
What genre is Compass? [SEP]  Compass is the sixth album by American electronic act Assemblage 23. It was released on October 1, 2009 on Metropolis Records and Accession Records.
What genre is Compass? [SEP]  Compass Records is an independent record label founded in 1995 by musicians Garry West and Alison Brown that specializes in folk, bluegrass, Celtic, jazz, and acoustic music. In 2006, Compass purchased the Green Linnet and Xenophile catalogs, and in 2008 the label purchased Mulligan Records. Red House Records, an independent folk and Americana record label founded in 1983 in St. Paul, Minnesota, was purchased by the Compass Records Group in 2017.
What genre is Compass? [SEP]  Compass is a 2010 album by Jamie Lidell, released May 18. It is produced by Lidell and features additional production by Beck, Grizzly Bear's Chris Taylor, Lindsey Rome and Robbie Lackritz.
What genre is Compass? [SEP] His Dark Materials  His Dark Materials is a trilogy of fantasy novels by Philip Pullman consisting of "Northern Lights" (1995; published as "The Golden Compass" in North America), "The Subtle Knife" (1997), and "The Amber Spyglass" (2000). It follows the coming of age of two children, Lyra Belacqua and Will Parry, as they wander through a series of parallel universes. The novels have won a number of awards, including the Carnegie Medal in 1995 for "Northern Lights" and the 2001 Whitbread Book of the Year for "The Amber Spyglass". In 2003, the trilogy was ranked third on the BBC's The Big Read poll.  Although "His Dark Materials" has been marketed as young adult fiction, and the central characters are children, Pullman wrote with no target audience in mind. The fantasy elements include witches and armoured polar bears; the trilogy also alludes to concepts from physics, philosophy, and theology. It functions in part as a retelling and inversion of John Milton's epic "Paradise Lost", with Pullman commending humanity for what Milton saw as its most tragic failing, original sin. The trilogy has attracted controversy for its criticism of religion.  The London Royal National Theatre staged a two-part adaptation of the trilogy in 2003–2004. New Line Cinema released a film adaptation of "Northern Lights", "The Golden Compass", in 2007. A HBO/BBC television series based on the novels commenced broadcast in November 2019.  Pullman followed the trilogy with three novellas set in the "Northern Lights" universe: "Lyra's Oxford" (2003), "Once Upon a Time in the North" (2008), and "Serpentine" (2020). "La Belle Sauvage", the first book in a new trilogy titled "The Book of Dust", was published on 19 October 2017; the second book of the new trilogy, "The Secret Commonwealth", was published in October 2019. Both are set in the same universe as "Northern Lights".
What genre is Compass? [SEP] Northern Lights (Pullman novel)  Northern Lights (titled The Golden Compass in North America and some other countries) is a young-adult fantasy novel by Philip Pullman, published in 1995 by Scholastic UK. Set in a parallel universe, it follows the journey of Lyra Belacqua to the Arctic in search of her missing friend, Roger Parslow, and her imprisoned uncle, Lord Asriel, who has been conducting experiments with a mysterious substance known as "Dust".  "Northern Lights" is the first book of the trilogy, "His Dark Materials" (1995 to 2000).<ref name="isfdb-series" /> Alfred A. Knopf published the first US edition April 1996, under the name "The Golden Compass",<ref name="isfdb-series" /><ref name="LCC2" /> under which title it was adapted as a 2007 feature film and as a companion video game. The book has also been adapted as a TV series in 2019 under the name "His Dark Materials".  Pullman won the 1995 Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's outstanding British children's book.<ref name="medal1995" /> For the 70th anniversary of the Medal, it was named one of the top ten winning works by a panel, composing the ballot for a public election of the all-time favourite.<ref name="topten" /> "Northern Lights" won the public vote from that shortlist and was thus named the all-time "Carnegie of Carnegies" on 21 June 2007.
What genre is Compass? [SEP] Her Heart for a Compass  Her Heart for a Compass is a 2021 romance novel by Sarah Ferguson, Duchess of York. The novel is a fictional story about the Duchess's great-great-aunt, Lady Margaret Montagu Douglas Scott.
What genre is Compass? [SEP] Compass in the Blood  Compass in the Blood is a young-adult novel by the American writer William E. Coles, Jr. (1932–2005) set in 1890's Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
What genre is Compass? [SEP] Compass Players  The Compass Players (or Compass Theater) was an improvisational theatre revue active from 1955 to 1958 in Chicago and St. Louis. Founded by David Shepherd and Paul Sills, it is considered to be the first improvisational theater in the United States.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP]  Apollo is a 2006 album by stoner rock band Nebula. Some enhanced copies of the CD include a video of Nebula playing the song "Future Days" live in Japan.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP]  Apollo: Atmospheres and Soundtracks is the ninth solo studio album by British ambient musician Brian Eno, released in 1983. It was written, produced, and performed by Brian Eno, his brother Roger and Daniel Lanois. Music from the album has appeared in the films 28 Days Later, Traffic, Trainspotting, and The Lovely Bones, whose soundtrack sold approximately four million copies. Two of the songs from the album, "Silver Morning" and "Deep Blue Day", were issued as a 7" single on EG Records.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP]  Apollo's Song (アポロの歌) is a manga written and illustrated by Osamu Tezuka. It was originally serialized in Weekly Shōnen King in Japan in 1970 and was published in English translation in 2007. The story follows a neglected and abused boy, Shogo, who does not have any feelings of love. Through a series of visions spanning the past and future, Shogo explores the meaning of love between man and woman.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP]  Apollo Up! is an American post-punk/pop punk/indie band based in Nashville, Tennessee. Billboard described the band as post-hardcore. Their sound has been compared to Ted Leo and the Pharmacists, and Fugazi. Singer/guitarist Jay Leo Phillips, bassist Mike Shepherd, and drummer Jereme Frey, each former or ongoing members of local bands Lotushalo, Shiboleth, On Command, and Forget Cassettes, formed the band in late 2002. Their debut album, Light the End and Burn It Through, was released by indie label Theory 8 Records in January 2004. Phillips divided his activities between Apollo Up! and dream pop trio Forget Cassettes, touring with both bands and working on the latter's second album, Salt, before concentrating on Apollo's second release, Chariots of Fire in June 2006. The group continued to gig locally and toured, playing, among other venues, at Cincinnati's Desdemona Festival in 2006. The band released a 5-song EP, Walking Papers, in 2008.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP]  is a boy whose single mother never knew his father as he was born after a series of affairs. An unintended child, his mother beat him whenever he witnesses love and tenderness. This leads to Shogo killing various animals upon seeing their love. Because of this, Shogo is taken to a mental institute. After a shock therapy, Shogo has an out-of-body experience and he meets Aphrodite, the goddess of love, who subjugates him to experience love across different time periods for the rest of eternity, dying repeatedly until he can one day understand the true meaning of love. In his first experience, Shogo is
What genre is Apollo? [SEP] Apollo 13 (film)  Apollo 13 is a 1995 American space docudrama film directed by Ron Howard and starring Tom Hanks, Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Ed Harris, and Gary Sinise. The screenplay by William Broyles Jr. and Al Reinert dramatizes the aborted 1970 Apollo 13 lunar mission and is an adaptation of the 1994 book "Lost Moon: The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13", by astronaut Jim Lovell and Jeffrey Kluger. The film depicts astronauts Lovell, Jack Swigert, and Fred Haise aboard Apollo 13 for America's fifth crewed mission to the Moon, which was intended to be the third to land. En route, an on-board explosion deprives their spacecraft of much of its oxygen supply and electrical power, which forces NASA's flight controllers to abort the Moon landing mission and improvise scientific and mechanical solutions to get the three astronauts to Earth safely.  Howard went to great lengths to create a technically accurate movie, employing NASA's assistance in astronaut and flight-controller training for his cast and obtaining permission to film scenes aboard a reduced-gravity aircraft for realistic depiction of the weightlessness experienced by the astronauts in space.  Released to cinemas in the United States on June 30, 1995, "Apollo 13" received critical acclaim and was nominated for nine Academy Awards, including Best Picture (winning for Best Film Editing and Best Sound). The film also won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture, as well as two British Academy Film Awards. In total, the film grossed over $355 million worldwide during its theatrical releases.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP] Omar Apollo  Omar Apolonio Velasco (born May 20, 1997), known professionally as Omar Apollo, is an American singer and songwriter.  After signing a record deal with Warner Records, his debut album, "Ivory", was released in 2022 to positive reviews for his vocal performance and the incorporation of Contemporary R&B with Pop music, earning him a Grammy Award nomination for Best New Artist at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards. Apollo sings in both English and Spanish.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP] Apollo 440  Apollo 440 (also known as Apollo Four Forty or @440) are a British electronic music group formed in Liverpool in 1990. The group has written, recorded, and produced five studio albums, collaborated with and produced other artists, remixed as Apollo 440 and as ambient cinematic alter-ego Stealth Sonic Orchestra, and created music for film, television, advertisements and multimedia. They notched up ten UK top 40 singles with three top-tens, and had a chart presence worldwide.  Its name comes from the Apollo program and the frequency of concert pitch — the A note at 440 Hz, often denoted as "A440", and the Sequential Circuits sampler/sequencer, the Studio 440. They changed the writing of their name from Apollo 440 to Apollo Four Forty in 1996, though they switched back for their latest album. To date, Apollo 440's remixes range from U2, P. Diddy/Jimmy Page, Jean-Michel Jarre and Ennio Morricone. Among their Stealth Sonic Orchestra remixes are a series of Manic Street Preachers singles.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP] Apollo XXI  Apollo XXI (21) is the debut studio album by American musician Steve Lacy. It was released on May 24, 2019, by Three Quarter (3Qtr) and AWAL. It was preceded by the singles "N Side", "Playground", and "Hate CD".<ref name="N Side"/><ref name="NEW"/><ref name="HNHH"/><ref name="PLAY"/><ref name="HCD"/>  "Apollo XXI" garnered widespread critical acclaim. Named as one of the best releases of 2019, critics praised its originality, cohesiveness and introspective lyricism. Thematically, the album explores Lacy’s sexuality and coming out. "Apollo XXI" was nominated for Best Urban Contemporary Album at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards, Lacy's first Grammy nomination as a solo artist.
What genre is Apollo? [SEP] Sons of Apollo  Sons of Apollo is an American progressive metal supergroup formed in 2017 and composed of drummer Mike Portnoy, bassist Billy Sheehan, keyboardist Derek Sherinian, vocalist Jeff Scott Soto, and guitarist Ron "Bumblefoot" Thal.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]  Ruth Berman-Harris (November 3, 1916 – April 23, 2013) was a noted concert harpist, recording artist, and music educator. She performed for many years in New York in the jazz and classical fields, and authored eight books for harp students. Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Ruth Berman began her harp studies at the age of thirteen. At age fifteen she won the Madrigal Award at the Juilliard School. She studied under Carlos Salzedo, Marie Miller, Lucille Lawrence, Casper Reardon, and Ronald Herder. She married Sydney I. Harris, on October 6, 1946, and thereafter was professionally known as Ruth Berman-Harris. As one of few harpists in New York who played both classical and jazz, Berman-Harris wrote her own jazz arrangements, while performing with symphony orchestras and working as a studio
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]  at NBC, CBS and ABC for forty-eight years. She performed with Arturo Toscanini and the NBC Symphony. Her jazz harp recordings were remastered, using materials from the Library of Congress, on a 2008 CD entitled Swing Time, issued by MSR Classic and Jazz Recording Company. Harris served on the faculty of the Hoff-Barthelson Music School and the Westchester Conservatory of Music. She co-directed the Purchase Music Ensemble, which sponsored the Aaron Copland Competition for Young Composers. In September 1978 Berman appeared at a benefit concert hosted by the Connecticut chapter of the American Harp Society, where she and cellist Lisa Bressler performed original compositions for harp and cello by Berman. Berman-Harris died on April 23, 2013, at the age of 96, at the Hospice of Arizona, in Peoria, Arizona.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]  Ruth Berman is an American writer of weird science fiction and speculative poetry. In 2003, she won the Rhysling Award for Best Short Poem. She was also the winner of the 2006 Dwarf Stars Award for her poem Knowledge Of. In 1973, she was a finalist for the first John W. Campbell Award for Best New Writer. Her short fiction has appeared in Analog, New Worlds, Star Trek: The New Voyages, Shadows 2, Tales of the Unanticipated, and Asimov's Science Fiction. Berman is a staff member of the University of Minnesota.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]  Ruth Berman Harris was the first female cantor (also called hazzan) in Argentina. She was born in Buenos Aires, where as a teenager she became the first female in Argentina to lead Jewish services. She was educated as a cantor at the Seminario Rabínico Latinoamericano in Argentina, and was ordained in 1996. She also earned a bachelor's degree in Talmud and Bible from Bar-Ilan University in Israel, as well as finishing a cantorial program from the World Union for Progressive Judaism. She moved to Israel in 1996, where she led services at three different synagogues, and in 2001 she moved to America; as of 2011 she is the cantor at Pasadena Jewish Temple and Center. She has also made a CD, "B'Rosh HaShanah", featuring herself singing some of the highlights of the Jewish service music.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]  "a glimpse into the publishing world and its original take on black professional women striving to hold on to their authentic selves and their stresses." She cites as key influences Passing by Nella Larsen, Octavia E. Butler’s Kindred, Toni Morrison’s Sula, and Americanah by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie. Harris has also cited Jordan Peele's movie Get Out and Ira Levin's The Stepford Wives as inspiration for the novel, which contains elements of horror and satire. A TV adaptation of this book is currently in development with Tara Duncan, Temple Hill Entertainment, and Hulu. Harris is co-writing the pilot with Rashida Jones.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP] Ruth Berman Harris (cantor)  Ruth Berman Harris was the first female cantor (also called hazzan) in Argentina. She was born in Buenos Aires, where as a teenager she became the first female in Argentina to lead Jewish services. She was educated as a cantor at the Seminario Rabínico Latinoamericano in Argentina, and was ordained in 1996. She also earned a bachelor's degree in Talmud and Bible from Bar-Ilan University in Israel, as well as finishing a cantorial program from the World Union for Progressive Judaism.  She moved to Israel in 1996, where she led services at three different synagogues, and in 2001 she moved to America; as of 2011 she is the cantor at Pasadena Jewish Temple and Center.<ref name="jewishjournal.com"/> She has also made a CD, "B'Rosh HaShanah", featuring herself singing some of the highlights of the Jewish service music.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP] Ruth Berman Harris (harpist)  Ruth Berman-Harris (November 3, 1916 – April 23, 2013) was a noted concert harpist, recording artist, and music educator. She performed for many years in New York in the jazz and classical fields, and authored eight books for harp students.  Born in New Haven, Connecticut, Ruth Berman began her harp studies at the age of thirteen. At age fifteen she won the Madrigal Award at the Juilliard School. She studied under Carlos Salzedo, Marie Miller, Lucille Lawrence, Casper Reardon, and Ronald Herder. She married Sydney I. Harris, on October 6, 1946, and thereafter was professionally known as Ruth Berman-Harris.  As one of few harpists in New York who played both classical and jazz, Berman-Harris wrote her own jazz arrangements, while performing with symphony orchestras and working as a studio musician at NBC, CBS and ABC for forty-eight years. She performed with Arturo Toscanini and the NBC Symphony.  Her jazz harp recordings were remastered, using materials from the Library of Congress, on a 2008 CD entitled "Swing Time", issued by MSR Classic and Jazz Recording Company.  Harris served on the faculty of the Hoff-Barthelson Music School and the Westchester Conservatory of Music. She co-directed the Purchase Music Ensemble, which sponsored the Aaron Copland Competition for Young Composers.  In September 1978 Berman appeared at a benefit concert hosted by the Connecticut chapter of the American Harp Society, where she and cellist Lisa Bressler performed original compositions for harp and cello by Berman.  Berman-Harris died on April 23, 2013, at the age of 96, at the Hospice of Arizona, in Peoria, Arizona.
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP] Ruth Harris  Ruth Harris may refer to:
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]
What genre is Ruth Berman Harris? [SEP]
What genre is The Box? [SEP]  The Box is a new wave group from Montreal, Quebec. Founded in 1981, they achieved commercial success in Canada, recording four charting albums and 10 charting singles between 1984 and 1990. The group broke up in 1992, but a new line-up was founded in 2005. This iteration of the group has released two further albums.
What genre is The Box? [SEP]  The Box is a 2021 South Korean musical, road film directed by Yang Jung-woong for Yeonghwasa Take Co., Ltd. The film starring Park Chanyeol and Jo Dal-hwan, is about an aspiring singer and a washed-up music producer and their musical journey. The film was theatrically released on March 24, 2021 by Cine Pilwoon Co., Ltd.
What genre is The Box? [SEP]  The Box is a 2009 American psychological thriller film based on the 1970 short story "Button, Button" by Richard Matheson, which was previously adapted into an episode of the 1980s iteration of The Twilight Zone. The film was written and directed by Richard Kelly and stars Cameron Diaz and James Marsden as a couple who receive a box from a mysterious man (played by Frank Langella) who offers them one million dollars if they press the button sealed within the dome on top of the box, but tells them that, once the button has been pushed, someone they do not know will die.
What genre is The Box? [SEP]  The film is a road film in which two people an aspiring singer and a washed out music producer embark on a musical journey across the country. It is a jukebox musical containing familiar popular songs from world music as; Coldplay, Billie Eilish, Chet Baker, Mariah Carey, Pharrell Williams and famous Korean songs in the backdrop of South Korean locales.
What genre is The Box? [SEP]  The Box is a 2003 American film noir starring James Russo, Theresa Russell, Brad Dourif, Steve Railsback, Jon Polito, Michael Rooker, John Snyder and directed by Richard Pepin. Russo won the Best Actor Award at the San Diego Film Festival for his role in this film in 2004.
What genre is The Box? [SEP] The Box (Roddy Ricch song)  "The Box" is a song by American rapper Roddy Ricch, released as the fourth single on December 6, 2019 from his debut studio album "Please Excuse Me for Being Antisocial". Prior to the song being released as a single, Its popularity on social media apps is credited to Ricch's iconic "eee err" ad-lib. A music video was released on February 28, 2020, directed by Ricch.  In the US, "The Box" was the biggest song of the final half of 2019, selling 4.7 million equivalent units as of July 2, 2020. Apple Music named it Song of the Year. It received three nominations at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards, including for Song of the Year.
What genre is The Box? [SEP] Toy-Box  Toy-Box is a Danish bubblegum pop group, consisting of vocalists Anila Mirza and Amir El-Falaki. Mirza was born on 8 October 1974 in Frederiksværk, Denmark to Indian-Iranian-Pakistani parents. El-Falaki was born 12 August 1973 in Copenhagen, Denmark to Moroccan parents. In 1999, they had some success in the Scandinavian music charts with a song from the album "Fantastic", named "Tarzan & Jane". Toy-Box reunited and performed at the Vi Elsker 90'erne events in Denmark in 2017.
What genre is The Box? [SEP] Box Car Racer  Box Car Racer is an American pop punk band formed in San Diego, California, in 2001. The group consists of guitarist and vocalist Tom DeLonge and drummer Travis Barker of Blink-182, formerly alongside guitarist David Kennedy of Hazen Street. Anthony Celestino later joined the band on tour as a bassist. DeLonge created the project to pursue darker ideas he felt unsuited to his work with Blink-182. Box Car Racer was partly inspired and viewed as a tribute to Jawbox, Quicksand, Fugazi, and Refused.  The group recorded the band's eponymous debut, "Box Car Racer", in quick fashion with a more DIY spirit. MCA Records issued the band's lone release in May 2002, which peaked on the "Billboard" 200 at number 12. Singles "I Feel So" and "There Is" also charted on the Modern Rock Tracks chart, with the former peaking at number eight. The band embarked on their sole headlining tour across North America in the fall of 2002 with supporting act The Used. The project was largely the cause of ongoing tension between DeLonge and Blink-182 bandmate Mark Hoppus and inevitably influenced the band's following studio album, the more experimental "Blink-182" (2003). DeLonge ended the project in mid-2003, considering it to have served its purpose; however, DeLonge's later band, Angels & Airwaves (which also features Kennedy), has been described by DeLonge as a continuation of Box Car Racer. In 2021, DeLonge confirmed that the project has been revived and a new song has been recorded.
What genre is The Box? [SEP] C. J. Box  Charles James Box Jr. (born 1958) is an American author of more than thirty novels. Box is the author of the Joe Pickett series, as well as several stand-alone novels, and a collection of short stories. The novels have been translated into 27 languages. Over ten million copies of his novels have been sold in the U.S. alone. The first novel in his Joe Pickett series, "Open Season", was included in "The New York Times" list of "Notable Books" of 2001. "Open Season", "Blue Heaven", "Nowhere to Run", and "The Highway" have been optioned for film and television, the latter being adapted into the television drama series "Big Sky", which debuted in November 2020. In March 2016, "Off the Grid" debuted at #1 on "The New York Times" Best Seller list. In 2021, Paramount Television Studios began production of a ten episode television adaption of Box's Joe Pickett novels, featuring actor Michael Dorman as Joe Pickett, to air exclusively on the Spectrum cable television service in the U.S. The subsequent series was renewed for a second season in February 2022.
What genre is The Box? [SEP] Black Box (band)  Black Box is an Italian house music group popular in the late 1980s and early 1990s. The group is currently made up of DJ Daniele Davoli, classically trained clarinet teacher Valerio Semplici, keyboardist and electronic musician Mirko Limoni, and vocalist Celestine Walcott-Gordon. French fashion model Katrin Quinol joined the act in 1989 and became the official face of Black Box, appearing on the cover of their single and album releases as well as in music videos, including the hit "Ride on Time", which was the highest-selling single of 1989 in the UK. The following year, it was revealed that Quinol was lip-syncing and had not performed on the recording. American singer Martha Wash performed the majority of the songs on the group's debut album, "Dreamland", while being uncredited.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  In The Deep is an album by Norwegian singer-songwriter Maria Solheim released October 12, 2012 by Universal Music Group.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  The reviewer Julia Pettersen of the Norwegian newspaper Dagbladet, awarded the album dice 4.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Produced by Nick Terry
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  On this fifth solo album release, Solheim show her considerable abilities. In the studio sessions she was joined by Henry Olsen (Primal Scream, Nico, The Velvet Underground, John Cale and others), Emil Nikolaisen (Serena Maneesh), among other stellar musicians, resulting in a record with songs spanning from quiet, simple guitar-based tunes, through rock, and all the way to pop. This is an album you even can dance to.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  In Deep is the fourth studio album by Argent, originally released by Epic Records in October 1973. It features the original full-length recording of "God Gave Rock and Roll to You", which reached No. 18 in the UK charts (U.S. No. 114) when released in edited form as a single later the same year. It was later remade by Kiss as "God Gave Rock 'n' Roll to You II" for the film Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey in 1991.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Deep house  Deep house is a subgenre of house music that originated in the 1980s, initially fusing elements of Chicago house with the lush chords of 1980s jazz-funk and touches of soul music. Its origins are attributed to the early recordings of Larry Heard (aka Mr. Fingers), including his influential track "Can You Feel It".
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Deep Forest  Deep Forest is a French musical group originally consisting of two French musicians, Michel Sanchez and Éric Mouquet. They compose a style of world music, sometimes called ethnic electronica, mixing ethnic with electronic sounds and dance beats or chillout beats. Their sound has been described as an "ethno-introspective ambient world music". They were nominated for a Grammy Award in 1994 for Best World Music Album, and in 1995 they won the Award for the album "Boheme". The group also became World Music Awards Winner – French group with the highest 1995 world sales. Their albums have sold over 10 million copies. Sanchez started his own career as a singer in 2005, while Mouquet continued working under the band's original name.<ref name="Sanchesquit"/>
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] How Deep Is Your Love (Bee Gees song)  "How Deep Is Your Love" is a pop ballad written and recorded by the Bee Gees in 1977 and released as a single in September of that year. It was ultimately used as part of the soundtrack to the film "Saturday Night Fever". It was a number-three hit in the United Kingdom and Australia. In the United States, it topped the "Billboard" Hot 100 on 24 December 1977 and stayed in the Top 10 for 17 weeks. It spent six weeks atop the US adult contemporary chart. It is listed at No. 27 on "Billboard" All Time Top 100. Alongside "Stayin' Alive" and "Night Fever", it is one of the group's three tracks on the list. The song was covered by Take That for their 1996 "Greatest Hits" album, reaching No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart for three weeks.  "How Deep Is Your Love" ranked number 375 on "Rolling Stone" list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. In a British TV special shown in December 2011, it was voted The Nation's Favourite Bee Gees Song by ITV viewers. During the Bee Gees' 2001 "Billboard" magazine interview, Barry said that this was his favourite Bee Gees song.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Styles of house music
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Neck Deep  Neck Deep are a Welsh pop punk band from Wrexham, Wales formed in 2012. Founded after vocalist Ben Barlow met former lead guitarist Lloyd Roberts, the pair posted a song ("What Did You Expect?") online under the name Neck Deep. The song soon gained attention online, resulting in the addition of rhythm guitarist Matt West, drummer Dani Washington/Abasi, and bassist Fil Thorpe-Evans. They released a pair of EPs, "Rain in July" (2012) and "A History of Bad Decisions" (2013), both recorded by Barlow's older brother, before signing with Hopeless in August 2013.  Following the release of their debut album "Wishful Thinking" in January 2014, the band became a full-time project, with the band members leaving their jobs and/or dropping out of university courses. Shortly after the release of their second album "Life's Not out to Get You" in August 2015, Roberts left the band due to allegations of sexual misconduct (which he was subsequently found to have no case to answer), and Sam Bowden (formerly of Climates and Blood Youth) joined in his place. The group's third album "The Peace and the Panic" was released August 2017, and debuted at #4 on the US "Billboard" 200. In September 2018, Thorpe-Evans left the band to pursue a solo career as a producer. In 2019, the band embarked in a summer tour with Blink-182 as the opening act. By February 2020, the band added longtime collaborator and bassist Seb Barlow as an official member, plus later that month revealed an app with all sorts of multimedia regarding the announcement of their fourth album, titled "All Distortions Are Intentional", released 24 July.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP]  Fantasy is a genre of fiction that uses magic or other supernatural elements as a main plot element, theme, or setting. Many works within the genre take place in imaginary worlds where magic and magical creatures are common. Fantasy is generally distinguished from the genres of science fiction and horror by the expectation that it steers clear of scientific and macabre themes, respectively, though there is a great deal of overlap among the three, all of which are subgenres of speculative fiction. Fantasy works frequently feature a medieval setting.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP]   Fantasy is a genre of speculative fiction involving magical elements, typically set in a fictional universe and sometimes inspired by mythology and folklore. Its roots are in oral traditions, which then became fantasy literature and drama. From the twentieth century it has expanded further into various media, including film, television, graphic novels, manga, animated movies and video games. Fantasy is distinguished from the genres of science fiction and horror by the respective absence of scientific or macabre themes, though these genres overlap. In popular culture, the fantasy genre predominantly features settings of a medieval nature. In its broadest sense, however, fantasy consists of works by many writers, artists, filmmakers, and musicians from ancient myths and legends to many recent and popular works.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP]  AFI defines "fantasy" as a genre in which live-action characters inhabit imagined settings and/or experience situations that transcend the rules of the natural world.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Genre – any category of literature or other forms of art or entertainment, e.g. music, whether written or spoken, audial or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria. For example, jazz is a genre of music. Fantasy is a genre of fiction, and more specifically, a genre of speculative fiction. ; Genre of fiction &ndash; fiction is a form of narrative which deals, in part or in whole, with events that are not factual, but rat her, imaginary and invented by its author(s). Although fiction often describes a major branch of literary work, it is also applied to theatrical, cinematic, and musical work. ; Genre of speculative fiction &ndash; one of the more fantastical fiction genres. Others include science fiction, fantasy, horror, weird fiction, supernatural fiction, superhero fiction, utopian and dystopian fiction, apocalyptic and post-apocalyptic fiction, and alternate history. ; Genre fiction &ndash; fictional works (novels, short stories, etc.) written with the intent of fitting into a specific literary genre in order to appeal to readers and fans already familiar with that genre. Also known as popular fiction. Fantasy can be described as all of the following:
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP]  with elements from the 19th century steam technology (historical fantasy and science fantasy both overlap with it) ; Sword and sorcery, adventures of sword-wielding heroes, generally more limited in scope than epic fantasy ; Urban fantasy, set in a city ; Weird fiction, macabre and unsettling stories from before the terms "fantasy" and "horror" were widely used; see also the more modern forms of slipstream fiction and the New Weird ; Xianxia (genre), Chinese martial-arts fiction often incorporating fantasy elements, such as gods, fairies, demons, magical realms and reincarnation Fantasy encompasses numerous subgenres characterized by particular themes or settings, or by an overlap with other literary genres or forms of speculative fiction. They include the following:
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Fantasy  Fantasy is a genre of speculative fiction involving magical elements, typically set in a fictional universe and sometimes inspired by mythology and folklore. Its roots are in oral traditions, which then became fantasy literature and drama. From the twentieth century, it has expanded further into various media, including film, television, graphic novels, manga, animations and video games.  Fantasy is distinguished from the genres of science fiction and horror by the respective absence of scientific or macabre themes, although these genres overlap. In popular culture, the fantasy genre predominantly features settings that emulate Earth, but with a sense of otherness. In its broadest sense, however, fantasy consists of works by many writers, artists, filmmakers, and musicians from ancient myths and legends to many recent and popular works.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Urban fantasy  Urban fantasy is a subgenre of fantasy which places imaginary and unreal elements in an approximation of a contemporary urban setting. The combination provides the writer with quixotic plot-drivers, unusual character traits, and a platform for classic fantasy tropes, without demanding the creation of an entirely-imagined world. Although precursors of urban fantasy date back to the 19th century, the term dates back to the 1970s. The current popularity began in the 1980s, with writers encouraged by the success of Stephen King and Anne Rice.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Contemporary fantasy  Contemporary fantasy, also known as modern fantasy, is a subgenre of fantasy, set in the present day or, more accurately, the time period of the maker. It is perhaps most popular for its subgenre, urban fantasy.  Strictly, supernatural fiction can be said to be part of contemporary fantasy since it has fantasy elements and is set in a contemporary setting. In practice, however, supernatural fiction is a well-established genre in its own right, with its own distinctive conventions.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Final Fantasy  "Final Fantasy" primary installments are generally stand-alone anthology series of role-playing games, each with different settings, plots and main characters, but the franchise is linked by several recurring elements, including game mechanics and recurring character names. Each plot centers on a particular group of heroes who are battling a great evil, but also explores the characters' internal struggles and relationships. Character names are frequently derived from the history, languages, pop culture, and mythologies of cultures worldwide. The mechanics of each game involve similar battle systems and maps.  "Final Fantasy" has been both critically and commercially successful. Several entries are regarded as some of the greatest video games, with the series selling more than copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling video game franchises of all time. The series is well known for its innovation, visuals, such as the inclusion of full-motion videos (FMVs), photorealistic character models, and music by Nobuo Uematsu. It has popularized many features now common in role-playing games, also popularizing the genre as a whole in markets outside Japan.
What genre is Fantasy? [SEP] Steampunk  Steampunk is a subgenre of science fiction that incorporates retrofuturistic technology and aesthetics inspired by 19th-century industrial steam-powered machinery. Steampunk works are often set in an alternative history of the Victorian era or the American "Wild West", where steam power remains in mainstream use, or in a fantasy world that similarly employs steam power.  Steampunk most recognizably features anachronistic technologies or retrofuturistic inventions as people in the 19th century might have envisioned them — distinguishing it from Neo-Victorianism — and is likewise rooted in the era's perspective on fashion, culture, architectural style, and art. Such technologies may include fictional machines like those found in the works of H. G. Wells and Jules Verne. Other examples of steampunk contain alternative-history-style presentations of such technology as steam cannons, lighter-than-air airships, analog computers, or such digital mechanical computers as Charles Babbage's Analytical Engine.<ref name=VanderMeer/><ref name=Grossman/>  Steampunk may also incorporate additional elements from the genres of fantasy, horror, historical fiction, alternate history, or other branches of speculative fiction, making it often a hybrid genre. The first known appearance of the term "steampunk" was in 1987, though it now retroactively refers to many works of fiction created as far back as the 1950s or earlier A popular subgenre is Japanese steampunk, consisting of steampunk-themed manga and anime,<ref name=Wired/> with steampunk elements having appeared in mainstream manga since the 1940s.<ref name=Cavallaro/>  Steampunk also refers to any of the artistic styles, clothing fashions, or subcultures that have developed from the aesthetics of steampunk fiction, Victorian-era fiction, art nouveau design, and films from the mid-20th century. Various modern utilitarian objects have been modded by individual artisans into a pseudo-Victorian mechanical "steampunk" style, and a number of visual and musical artists have been described as steampunk.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  The mixtape has an eclectic range of genres. It combines synthpop, pop, R&B, and hip-hop. The mixtape contains a few covers such as Beyoncé's "Halo" and the rest are original tracks.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  Just a Matter of Time is the fifth album released by the Randy Rogers Band, an American country music group. Their first album for a major label, it includes two songs which as singles charted on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts: "Kiss Me in the Dark" at number 43 and "One More Goodbye" at number 53. It was produced by Radney Foster. The former Sons of the Desert lead singer Drew Womack co-wrote the track "If Anyone Asks".
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  It's Just a Matter of Time is the forty-second album by American singer/guitarist Glen Campbell, released in 1985 (see 1985 in music).
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  A Matter of Time is the debut mixtape by American singer-songwriter Mike Posner. It was released February 28, 2009.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  A Matter of Time is the second and final album released by American country music artist Jason Sellers. Its title track was a Top 40 hit for him on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts in 1999. One day after the album's release, Sellers exited BNA Records' roster.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] It's Just a Matter of Time (song)  "It's Just a Matter of Time" is a popular song written by Brook Benton, Clyde Otis, and Belford Hendricks. The original recording by Benton topped the "Billboard" Hot R&B Sides chart in 1959 and peaked at No. 3 on the Hot 100 pop chart, the first in a string of hits for Benton that ran through 1970.  The song later found a second life as a country song, with major hit recordings by three different country music performers during the 1970s and 1980s, two of which hit number one.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] Just a Matter of Time (Randy Rogers Band album)  Just a Matter of Time is the fifth album released by the Randy Rogers Band, an American country music group. Their first album for a major label, it includes two songs which as singles charted on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs charts: "Kiss Me in the Dark" at number 43 and "One More Goodbye" at number 53. It was produced by Radney Foster. The former Sons of the Desert lead singer Drew Womack co-wrote the track "If Anyone Asks".
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] Just a Matter of Time (novel)  Just a Matter of Time is a 1973 thriller novella by British writer James Hadley Chase.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] Just a Matter of Time (Marlena Shaw album)  Just a Matter of Time is an album by American vocalist Marlena Shaw recorded in 1976 and released on the Blue Note label.
What genre is Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] It's Just a Matter of Time (album)  It's Just a Matter of Time is the forty-second album by American singer/guitarist Glen Campbell, released in 1985 (see 1985 in music).
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP]  Reminiscence is Bonnie Pink's first cover album released under the Warner Music Japan label on June 22, 2005.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP]  Of Reminiscences and Reflections is an orchestral composition by the American composer Gunther Schuller. It was composed on a commission from the Louisville Orchestra as an elegy to Schuller's wife Marjorie, who died in November 1992. The composition was written over a 17-day period in September 1993 and has a duration of roughly 20 minutes. The piece was awarded the 1994 Pulitzer Prize for Music.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Reminiscence (2010)
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP]  Reminiscence (stylized as reminiscence) is the first extended play by South Korean girl group Everglow under Yuehua Entertainment. The EP was released on February 3, 2020, together with its lead single, "Dun Dun".
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP]  Reminiscences (1881), by the historian and social critic Thomas Carlyle, is a posthumously published work containing two lengthy memoirs of the author's wife, Jane Welsh Carlyle, and friend, Edward Irving, together with shorter essays on his father and some of the literary friends of his youth. In most the emphasis is on his own relationship with the subjects. The book was begun in 1832, but mainly written in the year following Jane Carlyle's death in April 1866. Many of the book's first readers were shocked by the impression it gave of a harsh, gloomy, censorious personality and of a man racked by remorse over his failings as a husband; it did Carlyle's reputation as the sage and prophet of the Victorian era lasting harm. Nevertheless, it is characterized by great vividness and accuracy of detail, and by a comparatively direct, conversational style, and has been called an autobiographical masterpiece.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Reminiscence (2021 film)  Reminiscence is a 2021 American neo-noir science fiction thriller film written, directed, and produced by Lisa Joy in her feature directorial debut. The film stars Hugh Jackman, Rebecca Ferguson, Thandiwe Newton, Cliff Curtis, Marina de Tavira, and Daniel Wu, and follows a man who uses a machine that can see people's memories to try to find his missing love. Joy also produces alongside her husband and creative partner Jonathan Nolan.  "Reminiscence" was released by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States on August 20, 2021, and also had a month-long simultaneous release in the country on the ad-free tier of the HBO Max streaming service. The film received mixed reviews from critics, who praised its narrative ambition but compared it unfavorably to similarly themed works like "The Maltese Falcon" and "Westworld". It was a box office bomb, grossing $16 million worldwide against a $54 million budget.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Memoir  A memoir (; , ) is any nonfiction narrative writing based in the author's personal memories. The assertions made in the work are thus understood to be factual. While memoir has historically been defined as a subcategory of biography or autobiography since the late 20th century, the genre is differentiated in form, presenting a narrowed focus, usually a particular time phase in someone's life or career. A biography or autobiography tells the story "of a life", while a memoir often tells the story of a particular, career, event, or time, such as touchstone moments and turning points from the author's life. The author of a memoir may be referred to as a memoirist or a memorialist.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Reminiscences of a Stock Operator  Reminiscences of a Stock Operator is a 1923 roman à clef by American author Edwin Lefèvre. It is told in the first person by a character inspired by the life of stock trader Jesse Livermore up to that point.  The book remains in print (). In December 2009, Wiley published an annotated edition in hardcover, , that bridges the gap between Lefèvre's fictionalized account and the actual people and places referred to in the book. It also includes a foreword by hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Reminiscences (Carlyle)  Reminiscences (1881), by the historian and social critic Thomas Carlyle, is a posthumously published work containing two lengthy memoirs of the author's wife, Jane Welsh Carlyle, and friend, Edward Irving, together with shorter essays on his father and some of the literary friends of his youth. In most the emphasis is on his own relationship with the subjects. The book was begun in 1832, but mainly written in the year following Jane Carlyle's death in April 1866. Many of the book's first readers were shocked by the impression it gave of a harsh, gloomy, censorious personality and of a man racked by remorse over his failings as a husband; it did Carlyle's reputation as the sage and prophet of the Victorian era lasting harm. Nevertheless, it is characterized by great vividness and accuracy of detail, and by a comparatively direct, conversational style, and has been called an autobiographical masterpiece.
What genre is Reminiscences? [SEP] Memoirs of a Geisha  Memoirs of a Geisha is a historical fiction novel by American author Arthur Golden, published in 1997. The novel, told in first person perspective, tells the story of Nitta Sayuri and the many trials she faces on the path to becoming and working as a geisha in Kyoto, Japan, before, during and after World War II.  In 2005, a film adaptation was released, directed by Rob Marshall and starring Zhang Ziyi in the lead role.
What genre is My Way? [SEP] }
What genre is My Way? [SEP]  Classic Songs, My Way is a 2007 album by Paul Anka. It follows the same formula of his previous album, 2005's Rock Swings.
What genre is My Way? [SEP]  'My Love. My Way.' is an album by Iowa hardcore quintet Modern Life is War. The album was originally released via Martyr Records; Deathwish Inc. now handles all Modern Life Is War reissues. The reissued and remastered version of ''My Love. My Way.'' contains two additional songs from the M.L.I.W. 7" E.P.
What genre is My Way? [SEP]  List of the films produced and directors:
What genre is My Way? [SEP]  Out My Way is an EP by the alternative rock band the Meat Puppets, released in 1986. It features a more hard rock-oriented sound than on previous releases, leading some critics to say that the sound is similar to the southern/hard rock stylings of ZZ Top. The EP was reissued in 1999 by Rykodisc, with additional bonus tracks.
What genre is My Way? [SEP] My Way  "My Way" is a song popularized in 1969 by Frank Sinatra set to the music of the French song "Comme d'habitude" composed by Jacques Revaux with lyrics by Gilles Thibaut and Claude François and first performed in 1967 by Claude François. Its English lyrics were written by Paul Anka and are unrelated to the original French song.   The song was a success for a variety of performers including Sinatra, Elvis Presley, and Sid Vicious. Sinatra's version of "My Way" spent 75 weeks in the UK Top 40, which is 3rd place all-time.
What genre is My Way? [SEP] My Way (Frank Sinatra album)  My Way is an album by American singer Frank Sinatra, released in 1969 on his own Reprise label.  The album is mainly a collection of then-contemporary pop songs, such as Simon and Garfunkel's "Mrs. Robinson", and The Beatles' "Yesterday", French songs such as "If You Go Away", and the anthemic title song "My Way", which effectively became Sinatra's theme song in this stage of his career.  On December 30, 1968 in Los Angeles, a few hours before going to celebrate the New Year 1969, at the Sands Casino from Las Vegas, "My Way" was recorded and mixed at EastWest Studios, then called Oceanway Recording. Later it was remixed and reissued by Concord Records in 2009 to mark its 40th Anniversary. Two bonus tracks were included, and new liner notes from Bono. The bonus tracks were a rehearsal of "For Once in My Life" from 1969, for Sinatra's eponymous Emmy Award nominated 1969 television special, "Sinatra", and a live 1987 performance of "My Way" at the Reunion Arena, Dallas, Texas.  Bono's liner notes had previously appeared as his New York Times Op-ed column on January 9, 2009. The article discussed Bono's personal relationship with Sinatra, and Sinatra's thoughts on Miles Davis. Bono also mused on Sinatra's performances of "My Way", and the new year.
What genre is My Way? [SEP] Send Me on My Way  "Send Me on My Way" is a 1994 song by American worldbeat rock band Rusted Root. Originally released as a rough version on 1992's "Cruel Sun", it was re-recorded in 1994 for their second album, "When I Woke" and released as the lead single. Root's frontman, Michael Glabicki, wrote the lyrics, and its other members – Liz Berlin, John Buynak, Jim Dispirito, Jim Donovan, Patrick Norman and Jennifer Wertz – contributed to the track.  While the song was not an immediate commercial success, it has since become an "iconic track of the 1990s", mainly due its prominence in several movies and TV series, including the 1996 film "Matilda", the television show "Party of Five", the 2002 film "Ice Age", and the 2021 television miniseries "Maid".
What genre is My Way? [SEP] My Way (Calvin Harris song)  "My Way" is a song by Scottish DJ and producer Calvin Harris. The song was released on 16 September 2016. Harris announced the single on his Twitter page five days prior to its release. Like his previous 2010s singles "Summer" and "Feel So Close", Harris returns as a vocalist. It peaked at number four on the UK Singles Chart. Outside the United Kingdom, the single topped the charts in the Czech Republic and Hungary and peaked within the top ten of the charts in Australia, Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Israel, Lebanon, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Poland, the Republic of Ireland, Slovakia, Sweden and Switzerland and the top twenty of the charts in Canada, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.
What genre is My Way? [SEP] Temptation Come My Way  Temptation Come My Way is The Showdown's second album. It features a more focused sound than their previous album, which was a fusion of various heavy metal genres. The sound of "Temptation Come My Way" is southern rock combined with more traditional heavy metal. It is also the last album to feature Andrew Hall, before being replaced by former Still Remains drummer AJ Barrette.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP]  Our Time was released by folk music duo The Gordons on March 19, 2008. It was recorded and engineered, mixed, and mastered by Gary Gordon at Inside-Out Studio in Sparta, Illinois.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP]  In Our Time is a two-part EP series by Canadian alternative country band Cuff the Duke, released in 2012 and 2013 on Paper Bag Records. The EPs contain covers of songs by artists the band considers as influences on their sound and style, with six songs on each volume.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] Gary Gordon – vocals, guitar, Dobro ; Roberta Gordon – vocals, autoharp
What genre is Our Time? [SEP]  Album Singles
What genre is Our Time? [SEP]  Time is the debut studio album by the Yugoslavian rock group Time, released in 1972 by Jugoton. The album was polled in 1998 as the 3rd on the list of 100 greatest Yugoslav rock and pop albums in the book YU 100: najbolji albumi jugoslovenske rok i pop muzike (YU 100: The Best albums of Yugoslav pop and rock music).
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] Our Time (Lily Allen song)  "Our Time" is a song by British singer Lily Allen. The song was released on 10 March 2014, as the third single from Allen's third studio album, "Sheezus". The song is prominently featured on the OW Version of the Theme Park Playlist. With its increased popularity however, newer versions of the regular Theme Park Playlist contain the track.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] In Our Time (short story collection)  In Our Time is the title of Ernest Hemingway's first collection of short stories, published in 1925 by Boni & Liveright, New York, and of a collection of vignettes published in 1924 in France titled in our time. Its title is derived from the English "Book of Common Prayer", "Give peace in our time, O Lord".   The collection's publication history was complex. It began with six prose vignettes published by Ezra Pound in the 1923 edition of "The Little Review", to which Hemingway added twelve vignettes and had published in Paris in 1924 as the in our time edition (with a lower-case title). He wrote fourteen short stories for the 1925 edition, including "Indian Camp" and "Big Two-Hearted River", two of his best-known Nick Adams stories. He composed "On the Quai at Smyrna" for the 1930 edition.  The stories' themes – of alienation, loss, grief, separation – continue the work Hemingway began with the vignettes, which include descriptions of acts of war, bullfighting and current events. The collection is known for its spare language and oblique depiction of emotion, through a style known as Hemingway's "theory of omission" (iceberg theory). According to his biographer Michael Reynolds, among Hemingway's canon, "none is more confusing ... for its several parts – biographical, literary, editorial, and bibliographical – contain so many contradictions that any analysis will be flawed."  Hemingway's writing style attracted attention, with literary critic Edmund Wilson saying it was "of the first distinction"; the 1925 edition of "In Our Time" is considered one of Hemingway's early masterpieces.<ref name="Mellow266" />
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] Our Times  Our Times (, literally "The Time of My Maiden Years") is a 2015 Taiwanese teen romantic comedy-drama film directed by Frankie Chen. It is the directorial debut of Chen, who previously directed television dramas. The film stars Vivian Sung as Lin Cheng-hsin, an ordinary school-girl, Darren Wang as Hsu Tai-yu, the school's notorious gang leader, and Dino Lee as Ouyang Fei-Fan, the school's most popular male student.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] A Hero of Our Time  A Hero of Our Time () is a novel by Mikhail Lermontov, written in 1839, published in 1840, and revised in 1841.  It is an example of the superfluous man novel, noted for its compelling Byronic hero (or antihero) Pechorin and for the beautiful descriptions of the Caucasus. There are several English translations, including one by Vladimir Nabokov and Dmitri Nabokov in 1958.
What genre is Our Time? [SEP] The Devil All the Time (film)  The Devil All the Time is a 2020 American psychological thriller crime drama film directed by Antonio Campos, from a screenplay co-written with his brother Paulo Campos, based on the novel of the same name by Donald Ray Pollock. The film follows several characters whose stories weave together in two Southern Ohio towns during the period from the end of World War II to the 1960s. It features an ensemble cast that includes Tom Holland, Bill Skarsgård, Riley Keough, Jason Clarke, Sebastian Stan, Haley Bennett, Eliza Scanlen, Mia Wasikowska, and Robert Pattinson.  "The Devil All the Time" was released in select theaters on September 11, 2020, and on Netflix on September 16, 2020. It received mixed-to-positive reviews from critics, who praised the performances (particularly Holland and Pattinson) but were critical of the film's length and dark tone.
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]  El honorable Señor Valdez, is a Mexican telenovela produced by Valentín Pimstein for Televisa in 1973. It was starring Ignacio López Tarso and María Elena Marqués.
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]  Humberto Valdez is an intelligent man and father of a beautiful family, but it is tyrannical and sexist character. He is married to Sara and has two beautiful children: Rosalba and Jesús. Humberto against others pretending to be a "honorable" man, but besides its illicit maneuvers at work keeps an affair with a younger woman, Andrea. But gradually the fearsome and imposing figure of the "honorable Sr. Valdez" will break when his double life and discover their dirty business, which not only bring trouble with the law but will entail rejection and repudiation of people and his own family.
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP] El honorable Señor Valdez (1973) (remake of El profesor Valdez) ; El cuarto mandamiento (1967) (remake of Teresa)
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]  El profesor Valdez (English: Professor Valdez) is a Mexican telenovela produced by Televisa and broadcast by Telesistema Mexicano in 1962.
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP] Ignacio López Tarso as Humberto Valdez ; María Elena Marqués as Sara Valdez ; Nadia Milton as Rosalba Valdez ; Fernando Larrañaga as Jesús Valdez ; Jorge Lavat as Esteban ; Irma Lozano as Martha ; Fernando Borges as Miguel ; Sonia Amelio as Lola ; Raúl "Chato" Padilla as Don Carlos ; Josefina Escobedo as Sra. Solís ; Justo Martínez as Tiburcio ; Anel as Andrea
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]
What genre is El honorable Señor Valdez? [SEP]
What genre is Piel? [SEP]  "Cambia la Piel" is a Spanish-language song written by Pau Donés Cirera, leader of the Spanish rock group Jarabe de Palo. It was produced by Martin's collaborator, K. C. Porter. Thanks to "Cambia la Piel" (among few other tracks), Porter won the Latin Grammy Award for Producer of the Year at the Latin Grammy Awards of 2001. "Cambia la Piel" was released as the fourth (promotional only) single from Sound Loaded in Spain and Latin America on October 15, 2001.
What genre is Piel? [SEP]  Cambio de Piel is the second studio album and major label debut by Chilean singer-songwriter Denise Rosenthal. It was released on December 6, 2017 by Universal Music Chile. It was preceded by two singles, the lead-single of the same name and the ballad "Isidora".
What genre is Piel? [SEP]  the album's composition, claiming it's Ghersi's "most focused on [her] career" while noting that the vocals display her forward evolution. Rating the album with a perfect score, The Guardians Rachel Aroesti commented: "Exquisite opener Piel captures the interplay between poise and prostration that has made Catholic ritual such a rich artistic seam, while arch humour is provided by Whip – hyper-real lashing accompanied by the sound of a powering-down robot – and Desafío, which takes disposable Eurotrash pop and makes it worthy of pious contemplation." Pitchfork critic Kevin Lozano labeled the record with the tag "Best New Music", mentioning that
What genre is Piel? [SEP]  The album was released on December 6, 2017.
What genre is Piel? [SEP]  Piel de Barrabás is a 1981 music album by the Spanish group Barrabás. It was the band's seventh album and the first after the band's four-year break. It marked the return of drummer José María Moll, and the arrival of new members Armando Pelayo, Susy Gordaliza and Koky Maning. A song inspired by the Cold War, "Please Mr Reagan, Please Mr Breznev", was released as a single in some countries, with "Laura" as the B-side. "On the Road Again" was also a single, with "Hard Line for a Dreamer" as the B-side, and this reached #9 in the Swiss charts.
What genre is Piel? [SEP] Piel morena  "Piel Morena" (English: "Brown Skin") is a song by Mexican singer Thalía, from her fourth studio album "En éxtasis" (1995), which was her international debut. It was released as the lead single from the album in August 1995. The song was written by Kike Santander and produced by Emilio Estefan. This is Thalía's first single under the label EMI and it is recognized as one of her signature songs.
What genre is Piel? [SEP]
What genre is Piel? [SEP] Cambio de Piel (song)  Cambio de Piel ("Change of Skin") is a song written by Julio Reyes, produced by Sergio George, and performed by American recording artist Marc Anthony. It was released as the second single from his thirteenth studio "3.0" (2013). At the Latin Grammy Awards of 2014, the song received two nominations including Song of the Year and Record of the Year.
What genre is Piel? [SEP] The Skin I Live In  The Skin I Live In () is a 2011 Spanish science fiction psychological thriller film written and directed by Pedro Almodóvar, starring Antonio Banderas, Elena Anaya, Marisa Paredes, Jan Cornet and Roberto Álamo. It is based on Thierry Jonquet's 1984 novel "Mygale", first published in French and then in English under the title "Tarantula".  Almodóvar has described the film as "a horror story without screams or frights". The film was the first collaboration in 21 years between Almodóvar and Banderas since "Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down!" (1990). It premiered in May 2011 in competition at the 64th Cannes Film Festival, and won Best Film Not in the English Language at the 65th BAFTA Awards. It was also nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film and 16 Goya Awards.
What genre is Piel? [SEP]
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]  Collaboration West is an album by jazz vibraphonist and pianist Teddy Charles recorded in 1953 for the Prestige label. Four tracks from an earlier session were added to the 1993 CD release.
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]  The Allmusic review by Scott Yanow states: "Although there are some swinging sections, much of the music is quite complex with difficult arrangements and some polytonality... The music is thought-provoking if a bit cold and clinical, easier to respect than to love".
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]  The album's music blends West's primary soulful hip hop production with Brion's elaborate chamber pop orchestration, and experimentally delves into a wide array of different genres, including jazz, blues, rock, R&B, spoken word, funk, turntablism, western classical, and psychedelic soul. With the presence of Brion, who conducts a twenty-piece orchestra and plays instruments individually selected by West, the album is largely orchestral in nature, brandishing a euphony of string arrangements, piano chords, brass flecks, and horn riffs among other symphonic instrumentation. They also incorporated a myriad of foreign and vintage instruments not typical in popular music, let alone hip hop, such as a celesta,
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]  Collaborations is a compilation album by American singer Jill Scott, released on January 30, 2007, by Hidden Beach Recordings. The album consists of past collaborations between Scott and other artists, in addition to two remixes of "Love Rain" featuring Mos Def. The CD release is accompanied by a Hidden Beach sampler including two Scott songs, "In Stereo" and the live version of "The Fact Is (I Need You)".
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]  departure of sorts from the genre when she began work on her first full-length record in late 2005 with New York-based music producer Valentino LaRosa. The album, a marriage of organic instruments and the synthetic sounds familiar to her dance music fans, is perhaps best described as Alternative/Soul. Appropriately titled, One (Valentino's Heather) the records name not only marks the first of many to come, but more importantly is a reference to unity. Forever striving to do something different from what she has before, West decided to reproduce the same material with a more laid back musical vibe to create a double release with One Extra Chilled – HLW On the Rocks.
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP]
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP] West Side Story  West Side Story is a musical conceived by Jerome Robbins with music by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and a book by Arthur Laurents.  Inspired by William Shakespeare's play "Romeo and Juliet", the story is set in the mid-1950s in the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City, then a multiracial, blue-collar neighborhood. The musical explores the rivalry between the Jets and the Sharks, two teenage street gangs of different ethnic backgrounds. The Sharks, who are recent migrants from Puerto Rico, and the Jets, who are white, vie for dominance of the neighborhood, and the police try to keep order. The young protagonist, Tony, a former member of the Jets and best friend of the gang's leader, Riff, falls in love with Maria, the sister of Bernardo, the leader of the Sharks. The dark theme, sophisticated music, extended dance scenes, tragic love story, and focus on social problems marked a turning point in musical theatre.  The original 1957 Broadway production, directed and choreographed by Robbins, marked Sondheim's Broadway debut. It ran for 732 performances before going on tour. The production was nominated for six Tony Awards, including Best Musical, in 1958, winning two. The show had an even longer-running West End production, a number of revivals, and international productions. A 1961 musical film adaptation, co-directed by Robert Wise and Robbins, starred Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer. The film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards and won ten, including Best Picture. A 2021 film adaptation, directed by Steven Spielberg, starred Ansel Elgort and Rachel Zegler. That film was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture, along with six additional nominations, winning one Oscar.
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP] Late Registration  Late Registration is the second studio album by American rapper and producer Kanye West. It was released on August 30, 2005, through Def Jam Recordings and Roc-A-Fella Records. West recorded the album over the course of a year during sessions held at studios in Hollywood and New York City, in collaboration with Jon Brion. The recording sessions also featured guest contributions from Adam Levine, Jamie Foxx, Common, Brandy, Jay-Z, and Nas, among others.  West's production for "Late Registration" departed from the sped-up soul samples of his debut studio album, "The College Dropout" (2004), moving towards a more elaborate and orchestral style with a 20-piece ensemble. Drawing creative inspiration from alternative acts such as Fiona Apple and Portishead, he experimented with musical shifts, string arrangements, and a variety of instruments not usually associated with hip hop, including a celesta, harpsichord, and Chinese bells. In an effort to write authentic yet relatable lyrics, West engages in storytelling while showcasing his Christian heritage that informed his relationship to the capitalist market economy. He critiques multiple issues, such as institutional racism, higher education, health care, and the blood diamond trade.  A widespread critical success, "Late Registration" has often been viewed as a progression from "The College Dropout" and a pivotal release in hip hop. Numerous reviewers praised the former's elegant and ambitious musical direction, while some highlighted West's songwriting and performances for their balance of pop and conscious hip hop sensibilities. It was named to year-end lists for 2005 by multiple publications, such as "Rolling Stone", "Time", and "USA Today". The album led to West receiving eight nominations at the 48th Annual Grammy Awards, including Album of the Year and Best Rap Album, winning the latter.  Matching "The College Dropout"s commercial success, "Late Registration" debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200 and sold 860,000 copies in the first week, while reaching the top 10 in nine other countries, including the United Kingdom and Ireland. It eventually sold more than 3,000,000 copies in the US and received a five-times platinum certification from the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), as well as sales certifications in several other territories. Five accompanying singles were released, including the hits "Touch the Sky", "Heard 'Em Say", and "Gold Digger", the latter of which topped the "Billboard" Hot 100. Music videos for all five singles were produced, while West also promoted the album with the Touch the Sky Tour (2005–06) and his debut live album, "Late Orchestration" (2006). Since then, "Late Registration" has frequently appeared on top albums lists, including "Rolling Stone"s "500 Greatest Albums of All Time", on which it ranked 117th in 2020.
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP] Collaboration West  Collaboration West is an album by jazz vibraphonist and pianist Teddy Charles recorded in 1953 for the Prestige label. Four tracks from an earlier session were added to the 1993 CD release.
What genre is Collaboration West? [SEP] Adidas Yeezy  Adidas Yeezy (or just Yeezy) was a fashion collaboration between American rapper, designer and entrepreneur Kanye West and German sportswear company Adidas. It offered sneakers in limited edition colorways, as well as shirts, jackets, track pants, socks, slides, lingerie and slippers. The first shoe model ("Boost 750") was released in February 2015. In 2020 "Forbes" described Yeezy's rise as "one of the great retail stories of the century".  In October 2022, the collaboration between Adidas and West ended abruptly after West made antisemitic remarks through various media and publicly boasted that Adidas could do nothing.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]  Thin Ice is an American hardcore band, where they primarily play a hardcore punk style of music. They come from San Antonio, Texas. The band started making music in 2009. The band released an extended play, Revelation Through Tribulation, in 2010, with Blood and Ink Records. After a long hiatus, the album Misery Noose was self-released in late 2018. The band has recently finished recording a second LP with plans to release sometime in 2020.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]  Thin Ice is a 1956 novel by the British writer Compton Mackenzie. It tells the career of a homosexual politician seen through the eyes of his lifelong, heterosexual friend.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]  Thin Ice is a Big Finish Productions audio drama based on the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]  Thin Ice is a 2020 television series set in Greenland and the Icelandic seas. A co-production between Icelandic, French and Swedish companies the first season was broadcast in 2020, it was created by Jóhann Ævar Grímsson. An attack on a Swedish oil research ship and the disappearance of its crew takes intelligence officer Liv Hermanson to the Greenland village of Tasiilaq to investigate. The cast includes Davíð Guðbrandsson, Lena Endre, Bianca Kronlöf and Guðjón Ragnarsson.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]  Thin Ice is a 1919 American silent drama film directed by Thomas R. Mills and starring Corinne Griffith. It was produced and distributed through the Vitagraph Company of America. This film is preserved at the Bois d'Arcy Archive in Paris.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP] The Thin Ice  "The Thin Ice" is a song by Pink Floyd, released on "The Wall" in 1979.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP] Thin Ice (2011 film)  Thin Ice (originally released as The Convincer) is a 2011 American comedy-drama film directed by Jill Sprecher and starring Greg Kinnear, Alan Arkin and Billy Crudup.
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP]
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP] Jesse Stone: Thin Ice  Jesse Stone: Thin Ice is a 2009 American made-for-television crime drama film directed by Robert Harmon and starring Tom Selleck, Kathy Baker, and Kohl Sudduth. Based on the characters from the Jesse Stone book series created by Robert B. Parker, the film is about the police chief of a small New England town who investigates a cryptic letter sent to the mother of a kidnapped child who was declared dead. Filmed on location in Nova Scotia,<ref name="imdblocations"/> the story is set in the fictitious town of Paradise, Massachusetts. "Jesse Stone: Thin Ice" is the fifth in a series of nine television films based on the characters of Parker's Jesse Stone novels. The film received an American Society of Cinematographers Award for Outstanding Achievement in Cinematography, as well as a Canadian Society of Cinematographers Award for Best Cinematography in TV Drama for Rene Ohashi.<ref name="imdbawards"/>
What genre is Thin Ice? [SEP] Thin Ice (Doctor Who episode)  "Thin Ice" is the third episode of the tenth series of the British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". It was written by Sarah Dollard and broadcast on 29 April 2017 on BBC One. "Thin Ice" received mostly positive reviews from critics, with many labelling the topic of racism in the episode as well-executed.  The Doctor (Peter Capaldi) and Bill Potts (Pearl Mackie) visit the last great frost fair in London 1814, but they soon find that something sinister is lurking below the frozen Thames.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP]  The Promoter is a 2013 independent feature documentary film made by Ragged Crow film production company. The film was produced by Sam Edwards and directed by Ed Edwards. The Promoter premiered at The London Independent Film Festival in 2013. It won two awards at the United Film Festival: Best Documentary Award and the Audience Award.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP]  The film won Best Feature Documentary Award as well as the Audience Award at United Film Festival. At the Indie Gathering International Festival 2013 it was nominated Best Documentary and it also received a nomination for Best Film at The Portobello Film Festival 2013.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP]  A promoter works in entertainment industries, including music and sports, as an individual or organization in the business of marketing and promoting live, or pay-per-view and similar, events, such as concerts/gigs, sports events, festivals, raves, and nightclub performances.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP]  The documentary follows Robert Pereno, who should be a household name, but every time he is on the brink of greatness, he somehow manages to mess it up.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Robert Pereno ; Adam Ant ; Rusty Egan ; Eve Ferret ; Lowri-Ann Richards ; Gaz Mayall ; Mandy Fuller...
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Net promoter score  Net promoter score (NPS) is a widely used market research metric that is based on a single survey question asking respondents to rate the likelihood that they would recommend a company, product, or a service to a friend or colleague. The NPS is a proprietary instrument developed by Fred Reichheld, who owns the registered NPS trademark in conjunction with Bain & Company and Satmetrix. Its popularity and broad use have been attributed to its simplicity and transparent methodology.<ref name=":0" />  The NPS assumes a subdivision of respondents into "promoters" who provide ratings of 9 or 10, "passives" who provide ratings of 7 or 8, and "detractors" who provide ratings of 6 or lower. The net promoter score results from a calculation that involves subtracting the percentage of detractors from the percentage of promoters collected by the survey item. The result of the calculation is typically expressed as an integer rather than a percentage. The core "How likely would you be to recommend..." question is almost always accompanied by an open-ended "Why?" and sometimes by so-called "driver" questions.   The NPS is typically interpreted and used as an indicator of customer loyalty. In some cases, it has been argued to correlate with revenue growth relative to competitors within an industry, although it has also been demonstrated that NPS scores vary substantially between industries. NPS has been widely adopted by Fortune 500 companies and other organizations. Proponents of the Net Promoter approach claim the score can be used to motivate an organization to become more focused on improving products and services.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Bill Graham (promoter)  Bill Graham (born Wulf Wolodia Grajonca; January 8, 1931 – October 25, 1991) was a German-American impresario and rock concert promoter from the 1960s until his death in 1991 in a helicopter crash. On July 4, 1939, he was sent from Germany to France due to political uncertainty in his home country. At age 10, he settled into a foster home in the Bronx, New York. Graham graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School and subsequently from City College with a business degree.  In the early 1960s, Graham moved to San Francisco, and in 1965, began to manage the San Francisco Mime Troupe. He had teamed up with local Haight Ashbury promoter Chet Helms to organize a benefit concert, then promoted several free concerts. This eventually turned into a profitable full-time career and he assembled a talented staff. Graham had a profound influence around the world, sponsoring the musical renaissance of the 1960s from its epicenter in San Francisco. Chet Helms and then Graham made famous the Fillmore and Winterland Ballroom; these turned out to be a proving grounds for rock bands and acts of the San Francisco Bay area including the Grateful Dead, Jefferson Airplane, and Big Brother and the Holding Company with Janis Joplin, who were first managed, and in some cases developed, by Helms.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Janky Promoters  Janky Promoters is a 2009 American comedy film, starring Ice Cube and Mike Epps who play as "janky" promoters who book rapper Jeezy to play at their concert, only to fail at doing it the right way and thus getting into more trouble than they bargained for.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Corporate promoter  A corporate promoter is a firm or person who does the preliminary work related to the formation of a company, including its promotion, incorporation, and flotation, and solicits people to invest money in the company, usually when it is being formed. An investment banker, an underwriter, or a stock promoter may, wholly or in part, perform the role of a promoter. Promoters generally owe a duty of utmost good faith, so as to not mislead any potential investors, and disclose all material facts about the company's business. An earlier term for such a person is projector.
What genre is The Promoter? [SEP] Don King  Donald King (born August 20, 1931) is an American boxing promoter, known for his involvement in several historic boxing matchups. He has been a controversial figure, partly due to a manslaughter conviction and civil cases against him, as well as allegations of dishonest business practices by numerous boxers.  King's career highlights include, among multiple other enterprises, promoting "The Rumble in the Jungle" and the "Thrilla in Manila". King has promoted some of the most prominent names in boxing, including Muhammad Ali, Joe Frazier, George Foreman, Larry Holmes, Tomasz Adamek, Mike Tyson, Evander Holyfield, Chris Byrd, John Ruiz, Julio César Chávez, Ricardo Mayorga, Andrew Golota, Bernard Hopkins, Félix Trinidad, Roy Jones Jr., Azumah Nelson, Gerald McClellan, Marco Antonio Barrera, and Christy Martin. Some of these boxers sued him for allegedly defrauding them. Most of the lawsuits were settled out of court. Mike Tyson was quoted as saying, “He did more bad to black fighters than any white promoter ever in the history of boxing.”<ref name="ESPN Classic - Only in America"/>  King has been charged with killing two people in incidents 13 years apart. In 1954, King shot a man in the back after spotting him trying to rob one of his gambling houses; this incident was ruled a justifiable homicide. In 1967, King was convicted of voluntary manslaughter for stomping one of his employees to death. For this, he served three years and eleven months in prison.<ref name="espn bio" /><ref name="nytimes pardoned" />
What genre is Shine? [SEP]  Shine is the debut studio album by the English classical crossover singer-songwriter Mary-Jess Leaverland. It was originally released in August 2011, on the label Decca. The album follows her victory on Chinese television talent contest Min Xing Chang Fan Tian in December 2009. Leaverland described the album's sound as a "True hybrid between Classical and Pop with a filmic element and an Oriental thread".
What genre is Shine? [SEP]  Shine is the soundtrack to the 2006 Turkish film Küçük kiyamet (“Little Apocalypse“). Kevin Moore wrote the music while he was living in Istanbul, Turkey. The album was funded by fans and released via Kickstarter.com on CD in 2011.
What genre is Shine? [SEP]  Shine is the fourth studio album by hard rock band Shaman's Harvest. It was released on May 1, 2009.
What genre is Shine? [SEP] }
What genre is Shine? [SEP]  Released 17 August 1998
What genre is Shine? [SEP] Shine (Collective Soul song)  "Shine" is the debut single by American alternative rock band Collective Soul. It served as the lead single for their 1993 debut album "Hints Allegations and Things Left Unsaid". "Shine" would remain the band's most well known song and a hallmark of 1990s alternative rock. It became the number one Album Rock Song of 1994, and won a "Billboard" award for Top Rock Track. The song also reached the top of the "Billboard" Album Rock Tracks chart for eight weeks. The song then went on to peak at number 11 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for one week. VH1 would later rank "Shine" at number 42 on their list of the "100 Greatest Songs of the '90s". In 2012 a rerecorded version recorded by Collective Soul was included as a playable song for the game "Rock Band Blitz". In 2015 the rerecorded version was released on the bonus "Greatest Hits" CD that was included with the Walmart exclusive deluxe edition of "See What You Started by Continuing".
What genre is Shine? [SEP] Shinedown  Shinedown is an American rock band from Jacksonville, Florida, formed by singer Brent Smith in 2001 after the dissolution of Dreve, his previous band. Smith, still under contract with record label Atlantic Records, recruited the band's original lineup of Jasin Todd as guitarist, Brad Stewart on bass, and Barry Kerch on drums. Consistent for the first two album cycles, several lineup changes followed in the late 2000s, eventually stabilizing with Smith and Kerch alongside Zach Myers on guitar and Eric Bass on bass. The group has released seven studio albums: "Leave a Whisper" (2003), "Us and Them" (2005), "The Sound of Madness" (2008), "Amaryllis" (2012), "Threat to Survival" (2015), "Attention Attention" (2018), and "Planet Zero" (2022).  Shinedown has the most number one singles on the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock charts with 18, and all of their released singles have reached the top 5 on the chart. Additionally, on June 3, 2021, Shinedown was ranked #1 by Billboard on the Greatest of All Time Mainstreams Rock Artists chart released to celebrate the Mainstream Rock Chart's 40th Anniversary. To date, the band has sold more than 10 million records worldwide.
What genre is Shine? [SEP] Shine On You Crazy Diamond  "Shine On You Crazy Diamond" is a nine-part Pink Floyd composition written by David Gilmour, Roger Waters, and Richard Wright. It appeared on Pink Floyd's 1975 concept album "Wish You Were Here". The song is written about and dedicated to Syd Barrett, who left the band in 1968 because of deteriorating mental health.
What genre is Shine? [SEP] Shinehead  Shinehead (born Edmund Carl Aiken; 10 April 1962 in Kent, England) is a British Jamaican reggae singer/toaster/rapper.
What genre is Shine? [SEP] The Night Begins to Shine  "The Night Begins to Shine" is a song by the fictional band B.E.R. popularized by the "Teen Titans Go!" TV series. The song was subsequently featured in the episode "40%, 40%, 20%", and was prominently featured in two specials, the four-part 2017 special "The Day the Night Stopped Beginning to Shine and Became Dark Even Though It Was the Day" and a five-part sequel released in 2020, "The Night Begins to Shine 2".  The special also featured two other songs by B.E.R., "Forever Mine" and "Rise Up", as well as three covers of the song from Fall Out Boy, CeeLo Green, and Puffy AmiYumi. In 2021, Cartoon Network announced a spin-off series from "Teen Titans Go!" that will see the show's characters "journey back to the world of Night Begins to Shine ... to protect the only key to the world’s salvation, a magical mixtape".
What genre is Zones? [SEP]  Zones were a Scottish power pop and new wave band founded in late 1977, following the demise of PVC2 (formerly the bubbleglam and soft rock band Slik).
What genre is Zones? [SEP]  Zone 4 is an American record label created as a joint venture between the producer Polow da Don and Interscope Records.
What genre is Zones? [SEP]  Zone (ゾーン) were all-female rock band started in Sapporo, Japan in 1997. Although it initially started as a dance group, they turned to an all-female band. Zone has been categorized in a new genre called "bandol" (a portmanteau of the words band and idol). The band was started and managed by Studio RunTime and released their first single, "Good Days", under the major record label Sony Records, on February 7, 2001. The group has officially ended on March 2, 2013. Their most famous song is "Secret Base (Kimi ga Kureta Mono)", released on August 8, 2001. The single sold about 744,000 copies on Japanese Oricon charts.
What genre is Zones? [SEP] Unchain (Genre: rock)
What genre is Zones? [SEP]  on the album, while the contributions to its production came from a wide range of producers, including Bloodshy & Avant, R. Kelly, Trixster, Moby, Guy Sigsworth and The Matrix. In the Zone received positive reviews from music critics, who complimented its innovative aesthetics, blend of different genres, and Spears's songwriting; however, some criticized her vocals for being distant and processed. Commercially, the album became a major global success, debuting atop the charts in France, Argentina, South Korea and Mexico, and peaking inside the top ten in fifteen other countries. In the United States, the album debuted atop the Billboard 200, making Spears the first female artist to have four consecutive
What genre is Zones? [SEP] The Twilight Zone  The Twilight Zone is an American media franchise based on the anthology television series created by Rod Serling. The episodes are in various genres, including fantasy, science fiction, absurdism, dystopian fiction, suspense, horror, supernatural drama, black comedy, and psychological thriller, often concluding with a macabre or unexpected twist, and usually with a moral. A popular and critical success, it introduced many Americans to common science fiction and fantasy tropes. The first series, shot entirely in black and white, ran on CBS for five seasons from 1959 to 1964.  "The Twilight Zone" followed in the tradition of earlier television shows such as "Tales of Tomorrow" (1951–53) and "Science Fiction Theatre" (1955–57); radio programs such as "The Weird Circle" (1943–45), "Dimension X" (1950–51) and "X Minus One" (1955–58); and the radio work of one of Serling's inspirations, Norman Corwin. The success of the series led to (1983), (1994), a radio series (2002–12), various literature, theme park attractions and various other spin-offs that spanned five decades, including three revival television series. The second series (1985–89) ran on CBS and in syndication in the 1980s, while the third series ran on UPN (2002–03). The fourth "Twilight Zone" series, helmed by Jordan Peele, was released on CBS All Access from 2019–20.  "TV Guide" ranked the original TV series #5 in their 2013 list of the 60 greatest shows of all time and #4 in their list of the 60 greatest dramas.
What genre is Zones? [SEP] The Hot Zone  The Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story is a best-selling 1994 nonfiction thriller by Richard Preston about the origins and incidents involving viral hemorrhagic fevers, particularly ebolaviruses and marburgviruses. The basis of the book was Preston's 1992 "New Yorker" article "Crisis in the Hot Zone".  The filoviruses—including Ebola virus, Sudan virus, Marburg virus, and Ravn virus—are Biosafety Level 4 agents, extremely dangerous to humans because they are very infectious, have a high fatality rate, and most have no known prophylactic measures, treatments, or cures. Along with describing the history of the devastation caused by two of these Central African diseases, Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus disease, Preston described a 1989 incident in which a relative of Ebola virus, Reston virus, was discovered at a primate quarantine facility in Reston, Virginia, less than 15 miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C.
What genre is Zones? [SEP] O-Zone  O-Zone was a Moldovan Eurodance group that was active from 1999 to 2019. Originating in 1998 as a duo consisting of Dan Bălan and Petru Jelihovschi before the latter's departure, their official trio lineup in 1999 consisted of Dan Bălan, Radu Sîrbu, and Arsenie Todiraș.  The group gained global popularity with their song "Dragostea Din Tei" and their subsequent album "DiscO-Zone".  The group re-united in 2017 for two concerts in Chișinău and Bucharest and in 2019 for one concert in Bucharest.
What genre is Zones? [SEP]
What genre is Zones? [SEP] Zenless Zone Zero  Zenless Zone Zero () is an upcoming urban fantasy action role-playing game developed and published by HoYoverse. It is expected for release on Microsoft Windows and iOS.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP]  The Gift is the 13th album and a DVD movie by rapper, Andre Nickatina and directed by Shane Mario Ruggieri. It was released on January 25, 2005, for Fillmoe Coleman Records and featured production from Andre Nickatina, Smoov-E, Tone Capone, Dion Peete, Krushadelic, DJ Pause and the A-T.E.A.M.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP]  The Gift was first published in Australia on 1 October 2002 by Penguin Books in trade paperback format. In 2004 it was released in the United Kingdom by Walker Books and in 2005 it was released under the title of The Naming in hardback format by Candlewick Press in the United States. The Gift was a short-list nominee in both the 2002 Aurealis Award for best fantasy novel and the best horror novel but lost to Sean Williams' The Storm Weaver and the Sand and A. L. McCann's The White Body of Evening respectively.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP]  The Gift is a Portuguese alternative rock band, formed in 1994. They have released eight albums to date. In 2005 they won the MTV Europe award for best Portuguese act.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP]  The Gift is a 2015 psychological thriller film written, co-produced, and directed by Joel Edgerton in his feature directorial debut, and co-produced by Jason Blum and Rebecca Yeldham. The film stars Jason Bateman and Rebecca Hall as a couple intimidated by a figure from Bateman's past played by Edgerton. It was released in the United States on August 7, 2015, as the first film released by STX Entertainment. The film grossed $59 million worldwide on a budget of $5 million and received positive reviews from critics, who praised Edgerton's direction and screenplay, as well as Bateman's performance.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP]  The Gift (aka The Naming) is 2002 fantasy novel by Alison Croggon. It is the first in her Pellinor quartet.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP] The Gift (2015 American film)  The Gift is a 2015 psychological thriller film written, co-produced, and directed by Joel Edgerton in his feature directorial debut, and co-produced by Jason Blum and Rebecca Yeldham. The film stars Jason Bateman and Rebecca Hall as Simon and Robyn Callem, a couple intimidated by a figure from Simon's past played by Edgerton.  It was released in the United States on August 7, 2015, as the first film released by STX Entertainment. The film grossed $60 million worldwide on a budget of $5 million and received positive reviews from critics, who praised Edgerton's direction and screenplay, as well as Bateman and Hall's performances.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP] The Gift of the Magi  "The Gift of the Magi" is a short story by O. Henry first published in 1905. The story tells of a young husband and wife and how they deal with the challenge of buying secret Christmas gifts for each other with very little money. As a sentimental story with a moral lesson about gift-giving, it has been popular for adaptation, especially for presentation at Christmas time. The plot and its twist ending are well known; the ending is generally considered an example of comic irony. The story was allegedly written at Pete's Tavern on Irving Place in New York City.  The story was initially published in "The New York Sunday World" under the title "Gifts of the Magi" on December 10, 1905. It was first published in book form in the O. Henry anthology "The Four Million" in April 1906.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP] Gift of Gab (rapper)  Timothy Jerome Parker (October 7, 1970 – June 18, 2021), better known by his stage name Gift of Gab, was an American rapper best known for performing in the Bay Area hip hop duo Blackalicious along with DJ Chief Xcel. He was also a member of Quannum Projects, a Bay Area hip hop crew and record label, and performed and recorded as a solo artist.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP] The Gift (Turkish TV series)  The Gift () is a Turkish drama fantasy Netflix series starring Beren Saat. It was written by Jason George and Nuran Evren Şit. The first season consists of 8 episodes and became available for streaming on Netflix on December 27, 2019. The series is an adaptation of the novel "Dünyanın Uyanışı" (The World's Awakening) by Şengül Boybaş. The second season was released on September 10, 2020. The series was renewed for a third and final season, which premiered on June 17, 2021.
What genre is The Gift? [SEP] Gift from the Sea  Gift from the Sea is a book by Anne Morrow Lindbergh first published in 1955.  While on vacation on Florida's Captiva Island in the early 1950s, Lindbergh wrote the essay-style work by taking shells on the beach for inspiration and reflecting on the lives of Americans, particularly American women, in the mid-20th century. She shares her meditations on youth and age, love and marriage, peace, solitude, and contentment during her visit.
What genre is Gene? [SEP]  Gene's origins lie in a previous band which was first called The Go Hole, named after a fictional "Beat" club in John Clellon Holmes' novel Go, and later renamed Sp!n when they became a four-piece. The band was formed by Lee Clark (vocals/guitar) and Daz Walton (bass). Soon afterwards, Matt James joined on drums with John Mason on bass. Their first single, recorded in the same studios as The Ruts' "In a Rut", appeared on their own Big Pop Records label. A John Peel session fuelled their early success, where they mixed with the Camberwell scene, mingling with members of
What genre is Gene? [SEP]  Gene were a British rock band that rose to prominence in the mid-1990s. Formed in 1993, they were popularly labelled as a Britpop band and often drew comparisons to the Smiths because of their Morrissey-esque lead singer, Martin Rossiter. Gene's music was influenced by the Jam, the Smiths, the Style Council and the Clash.
What genre is Gene? [SEP]  Gene-X is an independent Australian feature film, released in the latter half of 2006. It is directed and written by Martin Simpson and stars Ayşe Tezel, Patrick Magee and Peter Astridge.
What genre is Gene? [SEP]  The Gene Machine is a graphical point-and-click action adventure game, originally released in 1996 and published by Vic Tokai. It was developed by Divide By Zero. It describes the adventures of a fictional British gentleman named Piers Featherstonehaugh and his manservant Mossop. The plot shares many common elements with Jules Verne's Around the World in Eighty Days, Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea and From the Earth to the Moon, as well as many other literary and historical references to Victorian England, such as Sherlock Holmes, Treasure Island, The Time Machine, Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Jack the Ripper and many others.
What genre is Gene? [SEP]  Columbus International Film Festival. His experimental art genre movie, Shadow Gene starring Elisabeth Dahl and Riley Stewart was completed in 2014 and had a preview screening at the Venice Experimental Cinema and Performance Festival before winning Best Actress and Best Editing at the Peloponnesian International Film Festival. The film's narrative follows a female assassin on a mission to destroy men with a degenerative gene and was shot entirely on discarded Super 8 and 16mm film stocks along with hand-drawn animation, still photographs and a soundtrack by brilliant young composer, Nedyalka Dimitrova. In June 2015, Shadow Gene won Best Film, Best Director and Best Actress at
What genre is Gene? [SEP] Gene Pitney  Gene Francis Alan Pitney (February 17, 1940 – April 5, 2006)  Pitney charted 16 top-40 hits in the United States, four in the top ten. In the United Kingdom, he had 22 top-40 hit singles, including 11 in the top ten. Among his most famous hits are "Town Without Pity", "(The Man Who Shot) Liberty Valance", "Twenty Four Hours from Tulsa", "I'm Gonna Be Strong", "It Hurts to Be in Love", and "Something's Gotten Hold of My Heart". He also wrote the early-1960s hits "Rubber Ball" recorded by Bobby Vee, "Hello Mary Lou" by Ricky Nelson, and "He's a Rebel" by the Crystals. In 2002, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.
What genre is Gene? [SEP] Gene Kelly  Eugene Curran Kelly (August 23, 1912 – February 2, 1996) was an American actor, dancer, singer, filmmaker, and choreographer. He was known for his energetic and athletic dancing style and sought to create a new form of American dance accessible to the general public, "dance for the common man."<ref name=":0" /> He starred in, choreographed, and co-directed with Stanley Donen some of the most well-regarded musical films of the 1940s and 1950s.  Kelly is best known for his performances in "An American in Paris" (1951), which won the Academy Award for Best Picture, "Singin' in the Rain" (1952), which he and Donen directed and choreographed, and other musical films of that era such as "Cover Girl" (1944) and "Anchors Aweigh" (1945), for which he was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Actor. "On the Town" (1949), which he co-directed with Donen, was his directorial debut. Later in the 1950s, as musicals waned in popularity, he starred in "Brigadoon" (1954) and "It's Always Fair Weather" (1955), the last film he directed with Donen. His solo directorial debut was "Invitation to the Dance" (1956), one of the last MGM musicals, which was not a commercial success.  Kelly made his film debut with Judy Garland in "For Me and My Gal" (1942), with whom he also appeared in "The Pirate" (1948) and "Summer Stock" (1950). He also appeared in the dramas "Black Hand" (1950) and "Inherit the Wind" (1960), for which he received critical praise.  He continued as a director in the 1960s, with his credits including "A Guide for the Married Man" (1967) and "Hello, Dolly!" (1969), which received an Oscar nomination for Best Picture. He co-hosted and appeared in "Ziegfeld Follies" (1946), "That's Entertainment!" (1974), "That's Entertainment, Part II" (1976), "That's Dancing!" (1985), and "That's Entertainment, Part III" (1994).  His many innovations transformed the Hollywood musical, and he is credited with almost single-handedly making the ballet form commercially acceptable to film audiences. Kelly received an Academy Honorary Award in 1952 for his career achievements; the same year, "An American in Paris" won six Academy Awards, including Best Picture. He later received lifetime achievement awards in the Kennedy Center Honors (1982) and from the Screen Actors Guild and American Film Institute. In 1999, the American Film Institute also ranked him as the 15th greatest male screen legend of Classic Hollywood Cinema.
What genre is Gene? [SEP] Gene (band)  Gene were a British rock band that rose to prominence in the mid-1990s. Formed in 1993, they were categorized by the UK music press as a Britpop band and often drew comparisons to the Smiths because of similarities to Morrissey in the demeanor and lyrical style of lead singer Martin Rossiter. Gene's music was influenced by the Jam, the Smiths, the Style Council and the Clash.
What genre is Gene? [SEP] Gene Autry  Orvon Grover "Gene" Autry (September 29, 1907 – October 2, 1998), nicknamed the Singing Cowboy, was an American singer, songwriter, actor, musician, rodeo performer, and baseball owner who gained fame largely by singing in a crooning style on radio, in films, and on television for more than three decades beginning in the early 1930s. Autry was the owner of a television station and several radio stations in Southern California. He was the founding owner of the California Angels franchise of Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1961 to 1997.  From 1934 to 1953, Autry appeared in 93 films, and between 1950 and 1956 hosted "The Gene Autry Show" television series. During the 1930s and 1940s, he personified the straight-shooting hero—honest, brave, and true. Autry was also one of the most important pioneering figures in the history of country music, considered the second major influential artist of the genre's development after Jimmie Rodgers.<ref name="cusic" /> His singing cowboy films were the first vehicle to carry country music to a national audience.<ref name="cusic" /> In addition to his signature song, "Back in the Saddle Again" and his hit "At Mail Call Today", Autry is still remembered for his Christmas songs, most especially his biggest hit "Rudolph, the Red-Nosed Reindeer" as well as "Frosty the Snowman", "Here Comes Santa Claus", and "Up on the House Top".  Autry is a member of both the Country Music Hall of Fame and the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame, and is the only person to be awarded stars in all five categories on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, for film, television, music, radio, and live performance. The town of Gene Autry, Oklahoma, was named in his honor, as was the Gene Autry precinct in Mesa, Arizona.
What genre is Gene? [SEP] Gene Harris  Gene Harris (born Eugene Haire, September 1, 1933 – January 16, 2000) was an American jazz pianist known for his warm sound and blues and gospel infused style that is known as soul jazz.  From 1956 to 1970, he played in The Three Sounds trio with bassist Andy Simpkins and drummer Bill Dowdy. During this time, The Three Sounds recorded regularly for Blue Note and Verve.  He mostly retired to Boise, starting in the late 1970s, although he performed regularly at the Idanha Hotel there. Ray Brown convinced him to go back on tour in the early 1980s. He played with the Ray Brown Trio and then led his own groups, recording mostly on Concord Records, until his death from kidney failure in 2000. One of his most popular numbers was his "Battle Hymn of the Republic," a live version of which is on his "Live at Otter Crest" album, published by Concord. The singer and actress Niki Haris is his daughter.
What genre is Evil? [SEP]  Evil Is... is the debut album by Wolfpac. Released in 2001, the album fuses the lyrical themes of death metal with a hip hop-based sound.
What genre is Evil? [SEP]  "Evil" is a song by American rock band Interpol. It was released as the second single from their second studio album, Antics, on January 3, 2005. The song is believed to be about Fred and Rosemary West, a married couple who raped and murdered teenage girls together in England between the 1960s and 1980s. "Evil" peaked at No. 18 on the UK Singles Chart and No. 24 on Billboard magazine's Modern Rock Tracks chart. In Australia, the song was ranked No. 76 on Triple J's Hottest 100 of 2004.
What genre is Evil? [SEP]  Evil or Live (イーブル オア ライブ) is a Chinese manhua published by Tencent authored and illustrated by Li Xiaonan. A Chinese/Japanese co-produced anime adaptation premiered in 2017.
What genre is Evil? [SEP]  Good & Evil is the second studio album released by the American rock band Tally Hall. It was said that this album would have been considered Tally Hall's "debut" record with Atlantic Records, since the previous release was merely a re-release of Marvin's Marvelous Mechanical Museum. Due to unknown circumstances, however, it was released on June 21, 2011 under their original label, Quack! Media.
What genre is Evil? [SEP]  Amid Evil is a first-person shooter video game developed by Indefatigable and published by New Blood Interactive. The game's dark fantasy theme, action-oriented gameplay, and retro-inspired visual elements have earned it frequent descriptions as a spiritual successor to 1994's Heretic and 1995's Hexen. A version for the Nintendo Switch is planned for release.
What genre is Evil? [SEP] Evil Dead  Evil Dead is an American horror film franchise created by Sam Raimi consisting of four feature films and a television series. The series revolves around the "Necronomicon Ex-Mortis", an ancient Sumerian text that wreaks havoc upon a group of cabin inhabitants in a wooded area in Tennessee.  The protagonist, Ashley Joanna "Ash" Williams (Bruce Campbell), is the only character to appear in every installment of the original trilogy, with the notable exception of his main love interest, Linda, who appears in "Evil Dead II" and "Army of Darkness" during only the prologues. The original trilogy includes "The Evil Dead" (1981), "Evil Dead II" (1987), and "Army of Darkness" (1992), all written and directed by Raimi, produced by Robert G. Tapert, and starring Campbell. The franchise has since expanded into other formats, including video games, comic books, a musical, and a television series.  The franchise was resurrected in 2013 with "Evil Dead", both a reboot and a loose continuation of the series directed by Fede Álvarez, who cowrote the screenplay with Rodo Sayagues. It was produced by Raimi, Campbell, and Tapert, featuring new protagonist Mia Allen (Jane Levy), alongside her brother David Allen (Shiloh Fernandez), set sometime after "Army of Darkness" and "Ash vs Evil Dead". A TV series called "Ash vs Evil Dead" premiered on cable network Starz in 2015, lasted for three seasons, and ended in 2018, with Campbell announcing an animated revival to be in active development in July 2022. It starred Bruce Campbell as Ash and was executive produced by Campbell, Sam Raimi, and Rob Tapert.  A new film in the franchise, titled "Evil Dead Rise", is set to be theatrically released on April 21, 2023, with Lee Cronin serving as writer and director, Alyssa Sutherland and Lily Sullivan starring, and Tapert, Campbell, and Raimi serving as producers.
What genre is Evil? [SEP] The Evil Dead  The Evil Dead is a 1981 American supernatural horror film written and directed by Sam Raimi, produced by Robert Tapert and executive produced by Raimi, Tapert, and Bruce Campbell, who also starred alongside Ellen Sandweiss, Richard DeManicor, Betsy Baker and Theresa Tilly. The film focuses on five college students vacationing in an isolated cabin in a remote wooded area. After they find an audio tape that, when played, releases a legion of demons and spirits, four members of the group suffer from demonic possession, forcing the fifth member, Ash Williams (Campbell), to survive an onslaught of increasingly gory mayhem.  Raimi, Tapert, Campbell, and their friends produced the short film "Within the Woods" as a proof of concept to build the interest of potential investors, which secured US$90,000 to begin work on "The Evil Dead". Principal photography took place on location in a remote cabin located in Morristown, Tennessee, in a difficult filming process that proved extremely uncomfortable for the cast and crew; the film's extensive prosthetic makeup effects and stop-motion animations were created by artist Tom Sullivan. The completed film attracted the interest of producer Irvin Shapiro, who helped screen the film at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival. Horror author Stephen King gave a rave review of the film, which resulted in New Line Cinema acquiring its distribution rights.  "The Evil Dead" grossed $2.4 million in the US and between $2.7 and $29.4 million worldwide. Both early and later critical reception were universally positive; in the years since its release, the film has developed a reputation as one of the most significant cult films, cited among the greatest horror films of all time and one of the most successful independent films. It launched the careers of Raimi, Tapert, and Campbell, who have continued to collaborate on several films together, such as Raimi's "Spider-Man" trilogy.  "The Evil Dead" spawned a media franchise, beginning with two direct sequels written and directed by Raimi, "Evil Dead II" (1987) and "Army of Darkness" (1992), a fourth film, "Evil Dead" (2013), which serves as a soft reboot and continuation, and a follow-up TV series, "Ash vs Evil Dead", which aired from 2015 to 2018; the franchise also includes video games and comic books. The film's protagonist Ash Williams is also considered to be a cultural icon.
What genre is Evil? [SEP] Evil Nine  Evil Nine are an English electronic music duo comprising members Tom Beaufoy and Patrick Pardy. Their musical style is primarily classified as breakbeat, although it additionally encompasses other influences.
What genre is Evil? [SEP] Pop Evil  Pop Evil is an American rock band that was formed in North Muskegon, Michigan, in 2001 by Leigh Kakaty. The band's roots reside in TenFive, a group formed in the late-1990s by Kakaty and guitarist Jason Reed.   Pop Evil won the Radio Contraband Rock Radio Award for "Song of the Year" for "Trenches" in 2013.
What genre is Evil? [SEP] Dream Evil  Dream Evil is a Swedish heavy metal band, assembled by producer Fredrik Nordström in 1999.
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]  '''Pieter Jacobsz. Duyfhuysen''' (1608&ndash;1677) was a Dutch Golden Age painter of genre. Duyfhuysen was born and died in Rotterdam. According to the RKD he was also known as Colinchovius. He worked in Rotterdam except for a short stay in Haarlem, where he was probably a pupil of Torrentius, during the years 1625–1627.
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]  Het Vermoeden, De Taalstrijd and Vriend & Vijand, in which he interviewed 200 celebrities in Belgium and the Netherlands. For VRT television he developed the quizzes Jij of Wij, I.Q. (with Herman Van Molle), Kennis van Zaken en De Tekstbaronnen. His De Rechtvaardige Rechters was a witty panel game show that ran for almost ten years. Jacobs published more than 30 books, including five novels (De rode badkuip, Een ijskoud gerecht, De laatste grap, Het droomdagboek van Lavoisier, Het raadsel van Rose Cottage), three short story collections, a selection of his best columns, and two interview books. He wrote three scenarios for the television
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]  '''Laurens Jacobsz. van der Vinne''' (1712, Haarlem &ndash; 1742, Haarlem), was an 18th-century painter from the Northern Netherlands.
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]  Paul Jacobs (born Mortsel, near Antwerp, 24 January 1949) is a Flemish radio and television producer and writer. Jacobs started his career when he was 22, as a writer and reporter with the BRT 1 radio programme Dagboek, produced by Jan Geysen. The programme was highly controversial and ran for only a year, but Geysen's name opened many doors. For the next ten years Jacobs was able to freelance as a writing journalist and reporter for several radio programmes with BRT 2 Omroep Antwerpen. In 1981 he became a producer with Radio 1. Until his retirement in 2005 he created several acclaimed radio shows,
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]  Pieter Steinz (6 October 1963 in Rotterdam – 29 August 2016 in Haarlem) was a Dutch journalist, literary critic and non-fiction author. From 2012 to 2015 he was director of the Nederlands Letterenfonds.
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP] Pieter Jacobsz. Duyfhuysen  Pieter Jacobsz. Duyfhuysen (1608–1677) was a Dutch Golden Age painter of genre.  Duyfhuysen was born and died in Rotterdam. According to the RKD he was also known as Colinchovius. He worked in Rotterdam except for a short stay in Haarlem, where he was probably a pupil of Torrentius, during the years 1625–1627.
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]
What genre is Pieter Jacobsz Duyfhuysen? [SEP]
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]  There are various genres of Internet services.
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]  Service was an independent record label formed in Gothenburg, Sweden in December 2001 by Ola Borgström together with Dan Lissvik. Service was often called Sweden's most important record label and has, in spite of its underground character, been influential for Swedish music in the 21st century.
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]  To Serve Man is the third full-length album by American deathgrind band Cattle Decapitation, released in 2002. The title is a reference to the Twilight Zone episode "To Serve Man".
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]  29 March to 1 April 2007, as part of her four-night stint at the Hong Kong Coliseum. It was called "My First Concert." Vidal's fourth studio album, titled Serving You, was released on 27 November 2008. On 21 December during the press conference for Lai's new album Is Me, Lai announced that Serving You had sold more than 150,000 units. Vidal's fifth studio album, titled Morning, was released on 3 July 2009 and is her first English album consisting entirely of original compositions. From 28 April 2007 to 13 May 2007 Madame Tussauds Hong Kong organised the "Madame Tussauds – Your Celebrity Choice for this
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]  There were reports in 2013 of a South Korean erotic film adaptation by Jang Cheol-soo (set in North Korea), but the project seems to have been abandoned.
What genre is Serving You? [SEP] Are You Being Served?  Are You Being Served? is a British sitcom created and written by executive producer David Croft (Croft also directed some episodes) and Jeremy Lloyd, with contributions from Michael Knowles and John Chapman, for the BBC. Set in London, the show follows the misadventures and mishaps of the staff of the retail ladies' and gentlemen's clothing departments in the flagship department store of a fictional chain called Grace Brothers.  The series was broadcast on the BBC for ten series, totalling 69 episodes between 8 September 1972 and 1 April 1985 – and included five Christmas specials. There was also a 1977 film, a spin-off series "Grace & Favour" with the same main cast in 1991–1992, and a one-off episode with a new cast in 2016. Since its original release, all 69 episodes, the pilot, the Christmas specials, the sequel and the film have been released on DVD.  "Are You Being Served?" was a success in the UK audience ratings. The series was screened in Canada, New Zealand, Australia and the Republic of Ireland, and was aired in the Netherlands and Belgium with Dutch subtitles. The show was also broadcast in Israel and in the United States, where it gained a loyal following when PBS television stations began airing reruns of it in the mid-1980s, along with other British sitcoms. In 2004, it was ranked 20th in a television countdown of "Britain's Best Sitcom". It is regularly rebroadcast in the English-speaking world.
What genre is Serving You? [SEP] You Got Served  You Got Served is a 2004 American dance drama film written and directed by Chris Stokes, who was also the business manager of the performers who were the film's main characters: recording artist Marques Houston and the boy band B2K. The plot follows a group of dancers who take part in a street dancing competition. "You Got Served" was produced by Marcus Morton, Cassius Vernon Weathersby, Billy Pollina, and Kris Cruz Toledo, and filming took place Between May 1, 2003, and June 25, 2003. The Columbia Pictures division Screen Gems released the film on January 30, 2004—the weekend of Super Bowl XXXVIII. It opened at #1 at the box office during its opening weekend, and grossed $16 million in its first week.  Despite negative reviews from critics, the film was a financial success, grossing over $50 million against its paltry $8 million budget. It was followed by one sequel, "" (2011).
What genre is Serving You? [SEP] Genre studies  Genre studies is an academic subject which studies genre theory as a branch of general critical theory in several different fields, including art, literature, linguistics, rhetoric and composition studies.  Literary genre studies is a structuralist approach to the study of genre and genre theory in literary theory, film theory, and other cultural theories. The study of a genre in this way examines the structural elements that combine in the telling of a story and finds patterns in collections of stories. When these elements (or semiotic codes) begin to carry inherent information, a genre emerges.  Linguistic genre studies can be roughly divided into two schools, Systemic Functional Linguistics or "SFL", and English for Specific Purposes or "ESP." SFL scholars believe that language structure is an integral part of a text's social context and function. SFL scholars often conduct research that focuses on genres' usefulness in pedagogy. ESP also examines the pedagogical implications of genre, focusing in particular on genre analysis as a means to help non-native English speakers to use the language and its conventions. ESP genre analysis involves identifying discourse elements such as register, formation of conceptual and genre structures, modes of thought and action that exist in a specific discourse community.  A third approach developed from scholarship in New Rhetorics, principally Carolyn R. Miller's article "Genre as Social Action" and is called Rhetorical Genre Studies (RGS). RGS has found wide application in composition studies, whose scholars insist that the textual forms that are usually called "genres" are only traces of a recurring social action. The social action itself, in other words, is the genre, not the document or text that it leaves behind.
What genre is Serving You? [SEP]
What genre is Serving You? [SEP] The Idler Wheel...  The Idler Wheel Is Wiser Than the Driver of the Screw and Whipping Cords Will Serve You More Than Ropes Will Ever Do, frequently abridged as The Idler Wheel..., is the fourth studio album by Fiona Apple. Like her second album "When the Pawn...", its title derives from a poem written by Apple herself. It was released in the UK on June 18, 2012 and in the US on June 19 by Epic Records. The album debuted at number three on the "Billboard" 200, her highest debut yet, selling 72,000 copies in its first week. The album received widespread acclaim from critics, and was frequently included in year and decade-end lists by several publications; in 2020, Rolling Stone placed the album at number 213 on its list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]  Neighbours: The Music is a soundtrack album to the Australian soap opera Neighbours. It was released in Australia 2002 on a dual disc CD and DVD set.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]  Neighbours (French title: Voisins) is a 1952 anti-war film by Scottish Canadian filmmaker Norman McLaren. Produced at the National Film Board of Canada in Montreal, the film uses pixilation, an animation technique using live actors as stop motion objects. McLaren created the soundtrack of the film by scratching the edge of the film, creating various blobs, lines, and triangles which the projector read as sound.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]  Neighbours (पड़ोसी Paṛōsī "neighbours") is a 2014 Bollywood horror film directed by Shyam Ramsay. The cast includes Arbaaz Ali Khan, Roushika Reikhi, Shakti Kapoor, Gavie Chahal and Rufy Khan. The film was released on 14 March 2014. Neighbours was the first vampire film by the director, and the first Ramsay film to be set in a city, Mumbai, but Neighbours did not have a big theatrical release. Ramsay stated to the media: “My new film Neighbours is about a seemingly normal neighbour who turns out to be a vampire. We’ve cast a super-model Roushika Reikhi as a sexy vampire.”
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]  "Neighbours: The Music" was released via Sony Records and features an audio CD with seventeen tracks, plus a DVD containing ten videos.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]  A new version of the theme tune, sung by Sandra de Jong, debuted in Australia on 23 July 2007 as part of a revamp of the show. This was arranged by Neighbours Music Director, Chris Pettifer and songwriter – producer Adrian Hannan. The opening song is longer than in recent years at 29 seconds and is also notable for re-introducing # Everybody needs good neighbours # to the opening song after an eight-year absence. The full edition of the closing theme continues to solely use the second verse of the Neighbours song, as has been the case since 1992. The new version does not repeat the verse
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP]
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP] My Neighbor Totoro  In 1989, Streamline Pictures produced an English-language dub for exclusive use on transpacific flights by Japan Airlines. Troma Films, under their 50th St. Films banner, distributed the dub of the film co-produced by Jerry Beck. This dub was released to United States theaters in 1993, on VHS and LaserDisc in the United States by Fox Video in 1994, and on DVD in 2002. The rights to this dub expired in 2004, so the film was re-released by Walt Disney Home Entertainment on March 7, 2006 with a new dub cast. This version was also released in Australia by Madman on March 15, 2006 and in the UK by Optimum Releasing on March 27, 2006. This DVD release is the first version of the film in the United States to include both Japanese and English language tracks.  Exploring themes such as animism, Shinto symbology, environmentalism and the joys of rural living, "My Neighbor Totoro" received worldwide critical acclaim and has amassed a global cult following in the years after its release. The film has grossed over at the worldwide box office as of September 2019, in addition to generating an estimated from home video sales and from licensed merchandise sales, adding up to approximately in total lifetime revenue.  "My Neighbor Totoro" received numerous awards, including the Animage Anime Grand Prix prize, the Mainichi Film Award and Kinema Junpo Award for Best Film in 1988. It also received the Special Award at the Blue Ribbon Awards in the same year. The film is considered as one of the top animation films, ranking 41st in "Empire" magazine's "The 100 Best Films of World Cinema" in 2010 and being the highest-ranking animated film on the 2012 "Sight & Sound" critics' poll of all-time greatest films. The film and its titular character have become cultural icons and made multiple cameo appearances in a number of Studio Ghibli films and video games. Totoro also serves as the mascot for the studio and is recognized as one of the most popular characters in Japanese animation.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP] Neighbours from Hell  Neighbours from Hell, known in the United States as Neighbors from Hell, is a puzzle strategy game for Nintendo GameCube, Microsoft Windows, Xbox, Nintendo DS, Android and iOS. In Europe, it was released for Windows on June 20, 2003, and the GameCube and Xbox on March 4, 2005. The game was released for Windows in the United States on September 22, 2003.  On October 8, 2020, a remastered compilation of the first two games titled "Neighbours Back from Hell" was released on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. It features increased frame rate and HD visuals.
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP] Hello Neighbor  Hello Neighbor is a survival horror stealth game developed by Russian studio Dynamic Pixels and published by tinyBuild. Initially released as public alphas from 2016 to 2017, it received a full release for Microsoft Windows and Xbox One on December 8, 2017, and later for PlayStation 4, Nintendo Switch, iOS and Android on July 26, 2018.  In the game, players play as a citizen, who just moved into the neighborhood, and try to break into their neighbor's house. Their goal is to successfully sneak into the basement of the neighbor's house to uncover a dark secret while avoiding being caught by him. The game's artificial intelligence (AI) modifies the neighbor's behavior based on the player's past actions, such as setting traps along paths the player followed in a previous attempt.  While the initial alpha versions of "Hello Neighbor" were received positively, the final product was met with largely negative reviews. Critics panned the gameplay, control scheme, and technical performance, although some praised the story, mystery elements, and art style. The game spawned a franchise, beginning with a prequel, "Hello Neighbor: Hide and Seek", released in December 2018. Two multiplayer spin-offs, "Secret Neighbor" and "Hello Engineer", were released in October 2019 and October 2021, respectively. A standalone sequel, "Hello Neighbor 2", was released on December 6, 2022.<ref name=hn2/>
What genre is Neighbours? [SEP] Neighbours (1952 film)  Neighbours (French title: Voisins) is a 1952 anti-war film by Scottish Canadian filmmaker Norman McLaren. Produced at the National Film Board of Canada in Montreal, the film uses pixilation, an animation technique using live actors as stop motion objects. McLaren created the soundtrack of the film by scratching the edge of the film, creating various blobs, lines, and triangles which the projector read as sound.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP]  In Silence is the debut studio album by Norwegian band Fra Lippo Lippi. It was released in 1981 through record label Uniton. The album's gothic post-punk sound was heavily influenced by bands such as Joy Division and The Cure.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP]  In Silence (V tichu) is a 2014 Czech-Slovak biographical film written and directed by Zdeněk Jiráský. The film, which deals with the issue of Jewish musicians in the 1930s, was partially funded on Kickstarter. It received a nomination for the Czech Lion Award for Best Film Poster at the 2014 ceremony, but the award went to Fair Play.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] The Silence
What genre is In Silence? [SEP]  Silence is Goldfish is the third novel by Annabel Pitcher. It tells the story of a girl named Tess who, upon discovering a family secret, decides to stop talking as a result of her rage. All her life she's had a pressure to please her parents and be a certain way, so decides to completely withdraw from everyone and everything she's ever known. The book was published in 2015 by Indigo, an imprint of Orion Children's Books.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP]  In Silence, along with Small Mercies, was re-issued by Rune Arkiv in 2003 as the compilation album The Early Years.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] Silent film  A silent film is a film with no synchronized recorded sound (or more generally, no audible dialogue). Though silent films convey narrative and emotion visually, various plot elements (such as a setting or era) or key lines of dialogue may, when necessary, be conveyed by the use of title cards.  The term "silent film" is something of a misnomer, as these films were almost always accompanied by live sounds. During the silent era that existed from the mid-1890s to the late 1920s, a pianist, theater organist—or even, in large cities, a small orchestra—would often play music to accompany the films. Pianists and organists would play either from sheet music, or improvisation. Sometimes a person would even narrate the inter-title cards for the audience. Though at the time the technology to synchronize sound with the film did not exist, music was seen as an essential part of the viewing experience. "Silent film" is typically used as a historical term to describe an era of cinema prior to the invention of synchronized sound, but it also applies to such sound-era films as "City Lights,", "Modern Times", "Silent Movie" and "The Artist", which are accompanied by a music-only soundtrack in place of dialogue.  The term "silent film" is a retronym—a term created to retroactively distinguish something from later developments. Early sound films, starting with "The Jazz Singer" in 1927, were variously referred to as the "talkies", "sound films", or "talking pictures". The idea of combining motion pictures with recorded sound is older than film (it was suggested almost immediately after Edison introduced the phonograph in 1877), and some early experiments had the projectionist manually adjusting the frame rate to fit the sound, but because of the technical challenges involved, the introduction of synchronized dialogue became practical only in the late 1920s with the perfection of the Audion amplifier tube and the advent of the Vitaphone system. Within a decade, the widespread production of silent films for popular entertainment had ceased, and the industry had moved fully into the sound era, in which movies were accompanied by synchronized sound recordings of spoken dialogue, music and sound effects.  Most early motion pictures are considered lost because the nitrate film used in that era was extremely unstable and flammable. Additionally, many films were deliberately destroyed because they had negligible continuing financial value in this era. It has often been claimed that around 75 percent of silent films produced in the US have been lost, though these estimates may be inaccurate due to a lack of numerical data.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] The Silence of the Lambs (film)  The Silence of the Lambs is a 1991 American psychological horror film directed by Jonathan Demme and written by Ted Tally, adapted from Thomas Harris's 1988 novel. It stars Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling, a young FBI trainee who is hunting a serial killer, "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine), who skins his female victims. To catch him, she seeks the advice of the imprisoned Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a brilliant psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer. The film also features performances from Scott Glenn, Anthony Heald, and Kasi Lemmons.  "The Silence of the Lambs" was released on February 14, 1991, and grossed $272.7 million worldwide on a $19 million budget, becoming the fifth-highest-grossing film of 1991 worldwide. It premiered at the 41st Berlin International Film Festival, where it competed for the Golden Bear, while Demme received the Silver Bear for Best Director. It became the third and most recent film (the other two being 1934's "It Happened One Night" and 1975's "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest") to win Academy Awards in all the major five categories: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, Best Actress, and Best Adapted Screenplay. It is the only horror film to win Best Picture.  "The Silence of the Lambs" is regularly cited by critics, film directors and audiences as one of the greatest and most influential films. In 2018, "Empire" ranked it 48th on their list of the 500 greatest movies of all time. The American Film Institute ranked it the fifth-greatest and most influential thriller film while Starling and Lecter were ranked among the greatest film heroines and villains. The film is considered "culturally, historically or aesthetically" significant by the U.S. Library of Congress and was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2011. A sequel, "Hannibal", was released in 2001, followed by the prequel films "Red Dragon" (2002) and "Hannibal Rising" (2007).
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] Suicide Silence  Suicide Silence is an American deathcore band from Riverside, California. The band was established in 2002, and has released six studio albums, three EPs, and nineteen music videos. They were awarded the "Revolver" Golden God award for "Best New Talent" in 2009. The group currently consists of guitarists Chris Garza and Mark Heylmun, bassist Dan Kenny, vocalist Hernan "Eddie" Hermida and drummer Ernie Iniguez.
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] Silence (Marshmello song)  "Silence" is a song by American music producer and DJ Marshmello, featuring guest vocals from American singer-songwriter Khalid. Written and produced by Marshmello, with additional writing from Khalid, it was released by RCA Records on August 11, 2017. "Silence" is a dance track. The song peaked at number 3 in the UK charts becoming his first song to chart in the official UK charts. Section::::Background. On August 1, 2017, Marshmello made a surprise performance at a Khalid concert, hinting at an upcoming collaboration. On August 7, 2017, Marshmello first teased the single release with a photo of him and Khalid, captioning the single's title and release date.  In an interview with StarTribune, Khalid explains "the song reflects the dejection he said he felt moving around a lot as a kid, since his mom served in the military. (His dad died in a car accident at a young age)".
What genre is In Silence? [SEP] Silence (2016 film)  Silence is a 2016 epic historical drama film directed by Martin Scorsese and with a screenplay by Jay Cocks and Scorsese, based on the 1966 novel of the same name by Shūsaku Endō. The film stars Andrew Garfield, Adam Driver, Liam Neeson, Tadanobu Asano, and Ciarán Hinds. The plot follows two 17th-century Jesuit priests who travel from Portugal to Edo-era Japan via Macau to locate their missing mentor and spread Catholic Christianity. The story is set in a time when it was common for the faith's Japanese adherents to hide from the persecution that resulted from the suppression of Christianity in Japan after the Shimabara Rebellion (1637–1638) against the Tokugawa shogunate. These are now called the "kakure kirishitan", or "hidden Christians". It is the second filmed adaptation of Endō's novel, following a 1971 film of the same name.  The pre-production phase of the filmmaking for "Silence" went through a cycle of over two decades of setbacks and reassessments. After filming of "The Wolf of Wall Street" concluded in January 2013, Scorsese committed to following it up with "Silence". On April 19, 2013, Scorsese indicated that he would begin production on "Silence" in 2014. Irwin Winkler was then announced as a producer, as were Randall Emmett and George Furla, who would provide financing through their company Emmett/Furla Films. Soon thereafter, planning was made for the film to be shot in Taiwan.  A long-time passion project for Scorsese, which he had developed for over 25 years, the film premiered in Rome on November 29, 2016, and was released in the United States on December 23, 2016. It received critical acclaim, with both the National Board of Review and American Film Institute selecting "Silence" as one of their top ten films of the year. It also received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Cinematography. However, the film was a box office bomb, grossing just $22 million against its $50 million budget. "Silence" is the third of Scorsese's films about religious figures struggling with challenges of faith, following "The Last Temptation of Christ" (1988) and "Kundun" (1997).
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP]  A Winter of Cyclists is a 2013 documentary film by Mike Prendergast. The film chronicles a group of Colorado participants as they attempt to complete a 52-day winter bicycle commuting challenge created by Scot Stucky. The challenge, known as “The Icy Bike Winter Commuting Challenge”, was created to encourage people to cycle to work from October to March, during the darker, colder and the snowier months of the year. The film captures the wide diversity in which riders adapt to new commuting logistics, adverse weather conditions and riding in the dark. And when the Colorado riders encounter an unexpected solidarity across the American continent and into Europe via Facebook, the film provides glimpses into a broader global winter cycling community that is just becoming aware of each other. Facebook Group members encourage each other, share weather reports, gear tips, and inspirational and touching personal stories. The film concludes with the results of the challenge and the riders reflection on their winter of cycling.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP]  The Winter Road (Зимняя дорога, Zimnaya doroga) is a documentary novel by Leonid Yuzefovich first published in September 2015. In 2016 the book won First Prize of the Big Book Award and the National Bestseller Award.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] Babin, Tom. Frostbike: The Joy, Pain and Numbness of Winter Cycling. Rocky Mountain Books Ltd, 2014. ; Cajuste, Mariah. Surviving a New England Winter. Booktango, 2014. (has short section on winter biking) ; Ruth, Karen. Bicycling: A Reintroduction. Cool Springs Press, 2011. (has section on rain and cold weather gear) ; von Markowsky, P. Winter Cycling. Technical guide and ideas for the budget-minded, do-it-yourself adventurer. Lulu Publications, 2013.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP]  Cold-weather biking, cold-weather cycling, or winter biking is the use of a bicycle during months when roads and paths are covered with ice, slush and snow. Cold weather cyclists face a number of challenges in near or below freezing temperatures. Urban commuters on city streets may have to deal with "[s]now, slush, salt, and sand", which can cause rust and damage to metal bike components. Slush and ice can jam derailleurs. Some cyclists may bike differently in winter, by "slow[ing] down on turns and brak[ing] gradually" in icy conditions. Gaining traction on snow and ice-covered roads can be difficult. Winter cyclists may use bikes with front and rear fenders, metal studded winter tires and flashing LED lights. Winter cyclists may wear layers of warm clothes and "ea[r], face, and han[d]" coverings may be used. Specialized winter bikes called fatbikes, which have wide, oversized tires that are typically inflated with low pressure, are used in snow trail riding and winter bike competitions.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP]  A Winter Book is a collection of twenty short stories by Finnish author Tove Jansson, published by Sort Of Books in 2006. The stories, some of which had not previously been published in English, were selected by Ali Smith, who also wrote the book's introduction and had previously reviewed The Summer Book for The Guardian. Thirteen of them are from Jansson's first book for adults, Sculptor's Daughter (1968), and the remaining seven are from four of her other works. Five were included in her 1998 Swedish language collection Messages (Meddelande), including the title piece, a partially fictionalised compilation of letters Jansson had received. They were translated into English from the original Swedish by Silvester Mazzarella, David McDuff and Kingsley Hart. In a review for
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] A Winter of Cyclists  A Winter of Cyclists is a 2013 documentary film by Mike Prendergast. The film chronicles a group of Colorado participants as they attempt to complete a 52-day winter bicycle commuting challenge created by Scot Stucky.  The challenge, known as "The Icy Bike Winter Commuting Challenge", was created to encourage people to cycle to work from October to March, during the darker, colder and the snowier months of the year.  The film captures the wide diversity in which riders adapt to new commuting logistics, adverse weather conditions and riding in the dark. And when the Colorado riders encounter an unexpected solidarity across the American continent and into Europe via Facebook, the film provides glimpses into a broader global winter cycling community that is just becoming aware of each other. Facebook Group members encourage each other, share weather reports, gear tips, and inspirational and touching personal stories. The film concludes with the results of the challenge and the riders reflection on their winter of cycling.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] Cold-weather biking  Cold-weather biking, cold-weather cycling, or winter biking is the use of a bicycle during months when roads and paths are covered with ice, slush and snow. Cold weather cyclists face a number of challenges in near or below freezing temperatures. Urban commuters on city streets may have to deal with "[s]now, slush, salt, and sand", which can cause rust and damage to metal bike components. Slush and ice can jam derailleurs. Gaining traction on snow and ice-covered roads can be difficult. Winter cyclists may use bikes with front and rear fenders, and flashing LED lights. may be used. Specialized winter bikes called fatbikes, which have wide, oversized tires that are typically inflated with low pressure, are used in snow trail riding and winter bike competitions.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] Clara Hughes  Clara Hughes,  (born September 27, 1972) is a Canadian cyclist and speed skater who has won multiple Olympic medals in both sports. Hughes won two bronze in the 1996 Summer Olympics and four medals (one gold, one silver, two bronze) over the course of three Winter Olympics.   Hughes is one of the few athletes who have competed in both the Summer and Winter Olympic games. Hughes is one of only six people to have podium finishes in the Winter and Summer versions of the Games, and is the only person ever to have won multiple medals in both. Hughes was the first Canadian woman to win a medal in road cycling at the Olympics, winning two in the 1996 Atlanta Olympics.<ref name=TorStar-2012-06-22 />  As a result of her success in multiple sports and her humanitarian efforts, Hughes was named to both the Order of Manitoba and as an Officer of the Order of Canada. She is involved with Right To Play, which is an athlete-driven international humanitarian organization that uses sports to encourage the development of youth in disadvantaged areas. After winning her gold medal in 2006, she donated $10,000 to Right to Play.  Throughout her career Hughes received a number of other awards, trophies, and accolades. She was named Female Athlete of the Year by Speed Skating Canada in 2004 for long track. In 2006, she received the International Olympic Committee's Sport and Community Trophy. She was then named to the 2006 List of Most Influential Women in Sport and Physical Activity by the Canadian Association for Advancement of Women and Sport (CAAWS). In the summer of the year 2010, it was announced that she would receive a star on the Canadian Walk of Fame and on November 15, 2010, she was inducted into Canada's Sports Hall of Fame.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] Eric Heiden  Eric Arthur Heiden (born June 14, 1958) is an American physician and a former long track speed skater, road cyclist and track cyclist. He won an unprecedented five individual gold medals, and set four Olympic records and one world record at the 1980 Winter Olympic Games. Heiden was the most successful athlete at those Olympic Games, single-handedly winning more gold medals than all nations except for the Soviet Union (10) and East Germany (9). He is the most successful Winter Olympian from a single edition of any Winter Olympics. He delivered the Athlete's Oath at those same 1980 Games. His coach was Dianne Holum.  Heiden is an icon in the speed skating community. His victories are significant, as few speed skaters (and athletes in general) have won competitions in both sprint and long-distance events. Heiden is the only athlete in the history of speed skating to have won all five events in a single Olympic tournament and the only one to have won a gold medal in all events. He is considered by some to be the best overall speed skater (short and long distances) in the sport's history. Heiden ranked No. 46 in "ESPN's SportsCentury 50 Greatest Athletes of the 20th Century" in 1999, the only speed skater to make the list. In 2000, a Dutch newspaper called him the greatest skater ever.
What genre is A Winter of Cyclists? [SEP] Gregory Winter  Sir Gregory Paul Winter (born 14 April 1951) is a Nobel Prize-winning English molecular biologist best known for his work on the therapeutic use of monoclonal antibodies. His research career has been based almost entirely at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology and the MRC Centre for Protein Engineering, in Cambridge, England.  He is credited with having invented techniques to both humanise (1986) and, later, to fully humanise using phage display, antibodies for therapeutic uses. Previously, antibodies had been derived from mice, which made them difficult to use in human therapeutics because the human immune system had anti-mouse reactions to them. For these developments Winter was awarded the 2018 Nobel Prize in Chemistry along with George Smith and Frances Arnold.  He is a Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge and was appointed Master of Trinity College, Cambridge on 2 October 2012. From 2006 to 2011, he was Deputy Director of the Laboratory of Molecular Biology, Medical Research Council, acting Director from 2007 to 2008 and Head of the Division of Protein and Nucleic Acids Chemistry from 1994 to 2006. He was also Deputy Director of the MRC Centre for Protein Engineering from 1990 to its closure in 2010.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP]  Album
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP]  Back-On (stylized as BACK-ON) is a Japanese rock band from Tokyo, Japan. They are recognized for creating anime and game opening themes such as the Tales of the World: Radiant Mythology 2 opening theme, "fly away"; Air Gear opening theme, "Chain"; Murder Princess opening theme "Hikari Sasuhou (fk Metal ver.)", and Eyeshield 21s "Blaze Line". They have also written ending themes for both anime and TV shows, including "flower" and "a day dreaming..." for Eyeshield 21, and "Butterfly" for the late-night TV drama Shinjuku Swan, "Sands of Time" for the mobile robot TV drama Keitai Sousakan 7, and "Strike Back" for the anime series Fairy Tail.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP]  Back and Forth Series Two is a compilation album by industrial band Skinny Puppy. It consists of the entire Back and Forth release remixed from the original four-track tapes, including raw live recordings and studio rarities.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP]  Citations Sources
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP]  Back to Front and Upside Down! is a picture book for children by British novelist Claire Alexander. The book deals with the difficulty some children might face when learning how to write. Alexander was awarded the Young Readers' Schneider Family Book Award in 2013 for her work.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP] Back to Black  Back to Black is the second and final studio album by English singer and songwriter Amy Winehouse, released on 27 October 2006 by Island Records. Winehouse predominantly based the album on her tumultuous relationship with then-ex-boyfriend and future husband Blake Fielder-Civil, who temporarily left her to pursue his previous ex-girlfriend. Their short-lived separation spurred her to create an album that explores themes of guilt, grief, infidelity, heartbreak and trauma in a relationship.  Influenced by the pop and soul music of 1960s girl groups, Winehouse collaborated with producers Salaam Remi and Mark Ronson, along with Sharon Jones' band The Dap-Kings, to assist her on capturing the sounds from that period while blending them with contemporary R&B and neo-soul music. Between 2005 and 2006, she recorded the album's songs with Remi at Instrumental Zoo Studios in Miami and then with Ronson and the Dap-Kings at Chung King Studios and Daptone Records in New York. Tom Elmhirst mixed the album at Metropolis Studios in London.  "Back to Black" was acclaimed by music critics, who praised Winehouse's songwriting and emotive singing style as well as Remi and Ronson's production. The album spawned five singles: "Rehab", "You Know I'm No Good", "Back to Black", "Tears Dry on Their Own" and "Love Is a Losing Game". It has also been cited as being a key influence to the widespread popularity of British soul throughout the late 2000s, paving the musical landscape for artists such as Adele, Duffy, and Estelle.  At the 2008 Grammy Awards, "Back to Black" won Best Pop Vocal Album and was also nominated for Album of the Year. At the same ceremony, Winehouse won four additional awards, tying her with five other artists as the second-most awarded female in a single ceremony. The album was also nominated at the 2007 Brit Awards for MasterCard British Album and was shortlisted for the 2007 Mercury Prize. "Back to Black" sold 3.58 million copies in the UK alone, becoming the UK's second best-selling album of the 21st century so far. The album has sold over 16 million copies worldwide.  A deluxe edition of "Back to Black" was released in November 2007, containing a bonus disc of B-sides and live tracks. Winehouse's debut DVD "", released that same month, includes a live set recorded at Shepherd's Bush Empire in London and a 50-minute documentary detailing the singer's career over the previous four years. In 2020, Back to Black was ranked at number 33 on Rolling Stone's list of the "500 Greatest Albums of All Time".
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP] Back to the Future  Back to the Future is a 1985 American science fiction film directed by Robert Zemeckis, and written by Zemeckis and Bob Gale. It stars Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, Lea Thompson, Crispin Glover, and Thomas F. Wilson. Set in 1985, the story follows Marty McFly (Fox), a teenager accidentally sent back to 1955 in a time-traveling DeLorean automobile built by his eccentric scientist friend Emmett "Doc" Brown (Lloyd). While in the past, Marty inadvertently prevents his future parents from falling in love—threatening his existence—and is forced to reconcile the pair and somehow get back to the future.  Gale and Zemeckis conceived the idea for "Back to the Future" in 1980. They were desperate for a successful film after numerous collaborative failures, but the project was rejected over 40 times by various studios because it was not considered raunchy enough to compete with the successful comedies of the era. A development deal was secured with Universal Pictures following Zemeckis's success directing "Romancing the Stone" (1984). Fox was the first choice to portray Marty but was unavailable; Eric Stoltz was cast instead. Shortly after principal photography began in November 1984, Zemeckis determined Stoltz was not right for the part and made the concessions necessary to hire Fox, including re-filming scenes already shot with Stoltz and adding $4million to the budget. "Back to the Future" was filmed in and around California and on sets at Universal Studios. Filming concluded the following April.  Following highly successful test screenings, the release date was brought forward to July3, 1985, giving "Back to the Future" more time in theaters during the busiest period of the theatrical year. The change resulted in a rushed post-production schedule and some incomplete special effects. "Back to the Future" was a critical and commercial success, earning $381.1million to become the highest-grossing film of 1985 worldwide. Critics praised the story, humorous elements, and the cast—particularly Fox, Lloyd, Thompson, and Glover. It received multiple award nominations and won an Academy Award, three Saturn Awards, and a Hugo Award. Its theme song, "The Power of Love" by Huey Lewis and the News, was also a success.  "Back to the Future" has since grown in esteem and is now considered by critics and audiences to be one of the greatest science-fiction films and among the best films ever made. In 2007, the United States Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the National Film Registry. The film was followed by two sequels, "Back to the Future Part II" (1989) and "Back to the Future Part III" (1990). Spurred by the film's dedicated fan following and effect on popular culture, Universal Studios launched a multimedia franchise, which now includes video games, , an animated television series, and a . Its enduring popularity has prompted numerous books about its production, documentaries, and commercials.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP] Back in Black  Back in Black is the seventh studio album by Australian rock band AC/DC. It was released on 25 July 1980 by Albert Productions and Atlantic Records. It is the band's first album to feature lead singer Brian Johnson, following the death of previous lead singer Bon Scott.  After the commercial breakthrough of their 1979 album "Highway to Hell", AC/DC was planning to record a follow-up, but in February 1980, Scott died from alcohol poisoning after a drinking binge. Instead of disbanding, they decided to continue on and recruited Johnson, who was previously vocalist for Geordie.  The album was composed by Johnson, Angus and Malcolm Young, and recorded over seven weeks in the Bahamas from April to May 1980 with producer Robert John "Mutt" Lange, who had worked on their previous album "Highway to Hell". Following its completion, the group mixed "Back in Black" at Electric Lady Studios in New York City. The album's all-black cover was designed as a "sign of mourning" for Scott.  As their sixth international studio release, "Back in Black" was an unprecedented success. It has sold an estimated 50 million copies worldwide, and is one of the best-selling albums in music history. The band supported the album with a yearlong world tour, cementing them among the most popular music acts of the early 1980s. The album also received positive critical reception during its initial release, and it has since been included on numerous lists of "greatest" albums. Since its original release, the album has been reissued and remastered multiple times, most recently for digital distribution. On 9 December 2019, it was certified 25× Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), making it the fourth best-selling album in the United States and the best-selling album that never reached the top spot in the American charts.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP] Taking Back Sunday  Taking Back Sunday is an American rock band from Long Island, New York. The band was formed by guitarist Eddie Reyes and bassist Jesse Lacey in 1999. The band's members currently are Adam Lazzara (lead vocals), John Nolan (lead guitar, keyboards, vocals), Shaun Cooper (bass guitar) and Mark O'Connell (drums), accompanied by Nathan Cogan (guitar) for their live performances. The band's former members include Lacey, Reyes, bass guitarist Matthew Rubano, and guitarist and vocalist Fred Mascherino.  Lacey quit Taking Back Sunday in 1999 and formed the critically acclaimed rock band Brand New in 2000, with whom Taking Back Sunday would become embroiled in a highly publicized feud. Lazzara replaced original vocalist Antonio Longo prior to the release of the band's 2002 debut album "Tell All Your Friends." Nolan and Cooper left the band in 2003 to form Straylight Run before returning in 2010. The band's breakthrough album, 2006's "Louder Now", featured the popular lead single "MakeDamnSure", sold over 900,000 copies, and peaked at No. 2 on the United States "Billboard" 200, surpassing the band's previous Billboard 200 peak in 2004 at No. 3 with "Where You Want to Be".  They released their seventh album "Tidal Wave" in 2016, Reyes left the band in 2018.
What genre is Back to Back? [SEP] Back-On  Back-On (stylized as BACK-ON) is a Japanese rock band from Tokyo, Japan. They are recognized for creating anime and game opening themes such as the "" opening theme, "fly away"; "Air Gear" opening theme, "Chain"; "Murder Princess" opening theme "Hikari Sasuhou (fk Metal ver.)", and "Eyeshield 21"s "Blaze Line". They have also written ending themes for both anime and TV shows, including "flower" and "a day dreaming..." for "Eyeshield 21", and "Butterfly" for the late-night TV drama "Shinjuku Swan", "Sands of Time" for the mobile robot TV drama "Keitai Sousakan 7," and "Strike Back" for the anime series "Fairy Tail".
What genre is Strength? [SEP]  Chords of Strength: A Memoir of Soul, Song and the Power of Perseverance is a memoir written by American singer David Archuleta with Monica Haim. It was published by Celebra Books, part of Penguin Group, on June 1, 2010. It was previously set for release on May 4 but later postponed.
What genre is Strength? [SEP]  Strength to Survive is the sixth-studio album by American Reggae band SOJA. It was released on January 31, 2012, with the record label ATO Records.
What genre is Strength? [SEP]  The Blood Is Strong is the first soundtrack album by folk rock band Capercaillie originally issued in 1988 and reissued in 1995 with six extra tracks by Survival Records. It was issued in North America by Valley Entertainment in 2000.
What genre is Strength? [SEP]  My Weakness Is Strong is the third comedy album by Patton Oswalt, following the 2007 release Werewolves and Lollipops.
What genre is Strength? [SEP]  Strength in Numbers is the ninth studio album by Swedish thrash metal band The Haunted, released on 25 August 2017 via Century Media.
What genre is Strength? [SEP] Nothing Is Lost (You Give Me Strength)  "Nothing Is Lost (You Give Me Strength)" is a song by Canadian singer the Weeknd. It was released by XO, Hollywood Records and Republic Records on December 15, 2022, as the lead single of the for the epic science fiction action-adventure film "" (2022). The song was written by the Weeknd, who composed with production trio Swedish House Mafia, along with the film's score composer, Simon Franglen. Musically, "Nothing Is Lost (You Give Me Strength)" is a "bombastic" ballad, featuring an "anthemic" melody and prominent drums in its chorus, accompanied with occasional tribal chants in the background.
What genre is Strength? [SEP] The Wave (novel)  The Wave is a 1981 young adult novel by Todd Strasser under the pen name Morton Rhue (though it has been reprinted under Todd Strasser's real name). It is a novelization of a teleplay by Johnny Dawkins for the movie "The Wave", a fictionalized account of the "Third Wave" teaching experiment by Ron Jones that took place in an Ellwood P. Cubberley High School history class in Palo Alto, California. The novel by Strasser won the 1981 Massachusetts Book Award for Children's/Young Adult literature.
What genre is Strength? [SEP] That Hideous Strength  That Hideous Strength: A Modern Fairy-Tale for Grown-Ups is a 1945 novel by C. S. Lewis, the final book in Lewis's theological science fiction Space Trilogy. The events of this novel follow those of "Out of the Silent Planet" and "Perelandra" (also titled "Voyage to Venus") and once again feature the philologist Elwin Ransom. Yet unlike the principal events of those two novels, the story takes place on Earth rather than elsewhere in the Solar System. The story involves an ostensibly scientific institute, the N.I.C.E., which is a front for sinister supernatural forces.  The novel was heavily influenced by the writing of Lewis's friend and fellow Inkling Charles Williams, and is markedly dystopian in style. In the foreword, Lewis states that the novel's point is the same as that of his 1943 non-fiction work "The Abolition of Man", which argues that there are natural laws and objective values that education should teach children to recognise.  The novel's title is taken from a poem written by David Lyndsay in 1555, "", also known as "The Monarche". The couplet in question, "", refers to the Tower of Babel.
What genre is Strength? [SEP] I Didn't Know My Own Strength (Whitney Houston song)  "I Didn't Know My Own Strength" is a song performed by American singer Whitney Houston, taken from her seventh studio album "I Look to You" (2009).  The song was written by Houston and Diane Warren, and produced by David Foster, both of whom have written and produced for Houston before. The song was originally supposed to precede the album's U.K. release on August 31, 2009 and U.S. release on September 1, 2009 but was cancelled in favor of "I Look to You" and "Million Dollar Bill". However, the song was released on November 6, 2009 as a promotional single.  Her live performance on "The Oprah Winfrey Show" was included in her 2014 live album, "".
What genre is Strength? [SEP] Tower of Strength (Gene McDaniels song)  "Tower of Strength" is a song written by Burt Bacharach and Bob Hilliard and performed by Gene McDaniels. The record was produced by Snuff Garrett and featured the Johnny Mann Singers and Earl Palmer on drums. It appeared on his 1961 album, "Tower of Strength".
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]  All the Years is a song that was recorded by the rock band Chicago, released on the 2008 album Stone of Sisyphus. It was written by Robert Lamm and studio session musician Bruce Gaitsch, the guitarist from the Night & Day Big Band album. This is the third track on the 2008 release. It was supposed to be the opening track on the original 1994 release.
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]  All is a self-titled compilation album by the punk rock band All. It was released on February 23, 1999, on All's own label, Owned & Operated. The album includes remastered songs picked by the fans, a previously unavailable track by Milo Aukerman, and an extensive booklet with lyrics, photos, and a complex family tree of All and the Descendents. Since this album was self-released, a limited number of copies were pressed. Because of this, it is harder to find on the secondary market than other All CDs.
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]  The discography of All, an American punk rock band, consists of nine studio albums, one compilation album, two live albums, one EP, six singles, and five music videos. All formed in Los Angeles in 1987 following the departure of singer Milo Aukerman from the Descendents. The remaining Descendents members—guitarist Stephen Egerton, bassist Karl Alvarez, and drummer Bill Stevenson—decided to carry on as a band, adopting the title of the Descendents' last studio album, All, as their new name and recruiting singer Dave Smalley. They released the album Allroy Sez and EP Allroy for Prez in 1988 through Cruz Records, the former supported by a single for
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]  "All These Years" is a song written by Mac McAnally, originally recorded on his 1992 album Live and Learn. It was later recorded by American country music group Sawyer Brown. It was released in November 1992 as the second single from their album Cafe on the Corner. Their version peaked at 3 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) chart, in addition to being a minor AC hit, peaking at 42 on the Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks chart.
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]  All Things Fair (1995) ; All This and Rabbit Stew (1941) ; All This, and Heaven Too (1940) ; All Through the Night (1941) ; All Together Now (2008) ; All Under the Moon (1993) ; All for the Winner (1990) ; All You Need Is Cash (1978) ; All You Need Is Love (2015) ; All's Well, Ends Well (1992) ; All's Well, Ends Well Too (1993) ; All-American Murder (1992) ; Allan Quatermain and the Lost City of Gold (1987) ; Allari Bullodu (2005) ; Allegro Non Troppo (1977) ; Allende en su laberinto (2014) ; Alles
What genre is All the Years? [SEP] 10 Years (band)  10 Years is an American alternative metal band formed in Knoxville, Tennessee in 1999. The band consists of lead vocalist Jesse Hasek, lead guitarist Brian Vodinh, rhythm guitarist Matt Wantland, bassist Chad Grennor, and drummer Luke Narey. The group has gone through multiple line-up changes since their inception, with Vodinh and Wantland being the only remaining founding members. To date, they have released ten studio albums, their most recent being "Descontructed" in 2022.
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]
What genre is All the Years? [SEP]
What genre is All the Years? [SEP] 12 Years a Slave (film)  12 Years a Slave is a 2013 American biographical drama film directed by Steve McQueen from a screenplay by John Ridley, based on the 1853 slave memoir "Twelve Years a Slave" by Solomon Northup, an African-American man who was kidnapped in Washington, D.C. by two conmen in 1841 and sold into slavery. He was put to work on plantations in the state of Louisiana for 12 years before being released. The first scholarly edition of David Wilson's version of Northup's story was co-edited in 1968 by Sue Eakin and Joseph Logsdon.  Chiwetel Ejiofor stars as Solomon Northup. Michael Fassbender, Benedict Cumberbatch, Paul Dano, Garret Dillahunt, Paul Giamatti, Scoot McNairy, Lupita Nyong'o, Adepero Oduye, Sarah Paulson, Brad Pitt, Michael Kenneth Williams, and Alfre Woodard feature in supporting roles. Principal photography took place in New Orleans, Louisiana, from June 27 to August 13, 2012. The locations used were four historic antebellum plantations: Felicity, Bocage, Destrehan, and Magnolia. Of the four, Magnolia is nearest to the actual plantation where Northup was held.  "12 Years a Slave" received widespread critical acclaim and was named the best film of 2013 by several media outlets and critics, and it earned over $187 million on a production budget of $22 million. The film received nine Academy Award nominations, winning for Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay for Ridley, and Best Supporting Actress for Nyong'o. The Best Picture win made McQueen the first black British producer to ever receive the award and the first black British director of a Best Picture winner. The film was awarded the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama, and the British Academy of Film and Television Arts recognized it with the BAFTA Awards for Best Film and Best Actor for Ejiofor.
What genre is All the Years? [SEP] One Hundred Years of Solitude  One Hundred Years of Solitude (, ) is a 1967 novel by Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez that tells the multi-generational story of the Buendía family, whose patriarch, José Arcadio Buendía, founded the fictitious town of Macondo. The novel is often cited as one of the supreme achievements in world literature.  The magical realist style and thematic substance of "One Hundred Years of Solitude" established it as an important representative novel of the literary Latin American Boom of the 1960s and 1970s, which was stylistically influenced by Modernism (European and North American) and the Cuban "Vanguardia" (Avant-Garde) literary movement.  Since it was first published in May 1967 in Buenos Aires by Editorial Sudamericana, "One Hundred Years of Solitude" has been translated into 46 languages and sold more than 50 million copies. The novel, considered García Márquez's "magnum opus", remains widely acclaimed and is recognized as one of the most significant works both in the Hispanic literary canon and in world literature.<ref name="oedb.org"/><ref name="telegraph.co.uk"/>
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let It Go (2012)
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP]  Let It Go is the solo mini album debut of South Korean singer Heo Young-saeng of boy band SS501. The EP of Korean-language songs was released on May 12, 2011 under B2M Entertainment and distributed by LOEN Entertainment. The album was released in Taiwan on July 1, 2011 under Warner Music Taiwan.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Album charts Singles charts
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP]  "Let It Go" is an indie pop song by British singer-songwriter Fe. It was uploaded to YouTube on February 20, 2013. The song received high acclaim from critics and indie music fans. Both the singer and the song were compared with American singers Mazzy Star and Lana Del Rey.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP]  Let Go is a rock band from Tempe, Arizona, formed in late 2004. They are currently signed to southern California record label The Militia Group.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let It Go  "Let It Go" is a song from Disney's 2013 computer-animated feature film "Frozen", whose music and lyrics were composed by husband-and-wife songwriting team Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez. The song was performed in its original show-tune version in the film by American actress and singer Idina Menzel in her vocal role as Queen Elsa. It was later released as a single, being promoted to adult contemporary radio by Walt Disney Records in January 2014. Anderson-Lopez and Lopez also composed a simplified pop version (with shorter lyrics and background chorus) which was performed by actress and singer Demi Lovato over the start of the film's closing credits. Disney's music division planned to release Lovato's version of the song before Menzel's, as they did not consider Menzel's version a traditional pop song.<ref name=smallsoundtrack/> A music video was released separately for Lovato's version.  The song was a commercial success, becoming the first song from a Disney animated musical to reach the top ten of the "Billboard" Hot 100 since 1995, when Vanessa L. Williams's "Colors of the Wind" from "Pocahontas" peaked at number four on the chart. The song is also Menzel's first single to reach the top 10 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart, making her the first Tony Award winner for acting to ever reach the top 10. The song was the ninth-best-selling song of 2014 in the United States, with 3.37 million copies sold in that year. , the song had sold 3.5 million copies in the US. It was the biggest-selling foreign song from any original soundtrack in South Korea .  The song presents Queen Elsa, who flees her kingdom when she publicly loses control of her ability to generate ice. Up in the mountains and away from the townspeople, Elsa realizes that she no longer needs to hide her ability and rejoices in not only being able to use her power freely but also the freedom from others' expectations of her as a royal. She sheds her royal accessories, creates a living snowman, and builds an  ice castle for herself.  "Let It Go" reached the top five on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart, and won both the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 2014 and the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media in 2015. The song gained international recognition, becoming one of the most globally-recorded Disney songs, with versions sung in 25 different languages for the film's international releases.  According to the International Federation of the Phonographic Industry, "Let It Go" sold 10.9 million copies in 2014, becoming the year's fifth best-selling song.  A remix EP was released digitally by Walt Disney Records on May 19, 2014. The EP features four remixes by Dave Audé, Papercha$er, DJ Escape & Tony Coluccio and Corbin Hayes. Armin van Buuren produced another remix of the song for the remix album, "Dconstructed".
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let Her Go  "Let Her Go" is a song recorded by English singer-songwriter Passenger. It was recorded at Sydney's Linear Recording and co-produced by Mike Rosenberg (a.k.a. Passenger) and Chris Vallejo. The recording features Australian musicians Stu Larsen, Georgia Mooney, Stu Hunter, Cameron Undy, and Glenn Wilson. "Let Her Go" was released in January 2008 as the second single from Passenger's fourth album, "All the Little Lights".  The song became a sleeper hit, achieving international success and topping the charts in many countries around the world. As of July 2014, it has sold over one million digital copies in the UK, and over four million in the US.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let It Go (James Bay song)  "Let It Go" is a song by English singer-songwriter James Bay. It was released in Europe on 15 September 2014 through Republic Records as the first single from Bay's second extended play of the same name. It was included on Bay's debut studio album "Chaos and the Calm" (2014). The song was written by Bay with Paul Barry and produced by Jacquire King. The "Let It Go" EP was released prior on 3 May 2014.  The song was re-released in March 2015 after "Hold Back the River" and in July 2015, has peaked at number 10 on the UK Singles Chart, beating its previous peak of 62 on 27 September 2014. In May 2015, "Let It Go" peaked at number 8 in Australia, whilst in New Zealand, the song debuted on June 15, 2015, at number 31, before climbing to number 24 the following week. A week after that, the song entered the top 10 of the chart, peaking at number 10. "Let It Go" is Bay's first song to chart on the "Billboard" Hot 100, reaching number 16. A remix by Jack Steadman was released in 2015.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let Him Go  Let Him Go is a 2020 American neo-Western film starring Diane Lane and Kevin Costner, and directed, written, and co-produced by Thomas Bezucha, based on the 2013 novel of the same name by Larry Watson. The film follows a retired sheriff (Kevin Costner) and his wife (Diane Lane) who try to rescue their grandson from a dangerous family living off-the-grid. It also stars Lesley Manville, Kayli Carter, Will Brittain, and Jeffrey Donovan.  "Let Him Go" was theatrically released in the United States on November 6, 2020, by Focus Features. The film received positive reviews and grossed over $11.6 million.
What genre is Let It Go? [SEP] Let It Go (Keyshia Cole song)  "Let It Go" is a song by American R&B singer Keyshia Cole featuring American rappers Missy Elliott and Lil' Kim. It was written by Cole, Jack Knight, Cainon Lamb, Lil' Kim, and Missy Elliott for her second album "Just Like You" (2007) and samples "Juicy Fruit" by Mtume, and "Don't Stop the Music" by Yarbrough and Peoples, while also interpolating "Juicy" by The Notorious B.I.G., who also sampled "Juicy Fruit." An uptempo song written by all three artists with Jack Knight, Cainon Lamb and James Mtume and produced by Lamb and Elliott, it marked the first collaboration between any of the three artists with one another.  Released as the album's lead single, it debuted at number 74 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 on the issue date of July 7, 2007, and peaked at number 7, becoming Cole's third top ten hit single altogether and first top ten "Billboard" Hot 100 single as a lead artist. It also became Cole's first number-one hit on the R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration at the 50th annual ceremony, held in February 2008. "Let It Go" was ranked 59th on "Rolling Stone"s list of the 100 Best Songs of 2007. The single sold over two million copies in the US and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]  Drôles de zèbres (Funny Zebras) is a 1977 French comedy film. Two unemployed men, heavily in debt due to losses at the racetrack, are hired by a criminal mastermind to harass the guests of a hotel he hopes to purchase at a below-market price in order to access a tunnel below the building that leads directly to a nearby bank. Written and directed by Guy Lux, the film stars Patrick Topaloff, Coluche, Annie Cordy, Claude François, Sim, Petula Clark, and Katia Tchenko.
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]  François Alvarez of Music Story called Drôle de parcours an album that is "torn between legitimacy and smiles on the radio, and that may ultimately leave everyone hungry". He emphasizes, "an even disc where the tracks close to variety especially have the quality of being easily programmable on radio". He specifies that La Fouine "doesn't hide himself and fully varies his rap, while slipping some harder tracks to show that his exile in Florida did not completely soften him."
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]  An African storyteller humorously and kindly talks about how some of his fellow countrymen are emulating the habits of white people and "Their stuff". He thus presents several cases to prove his point. In one of them a supposed to be planter and businessman who underpays an employee gets framed by his own folks. A young boy jumps from a high tree with an open umbrella to copy the way the parachutists do in the city. A few other examples are as pathetic or comical. At the epilogue our storyteller finds himself being laughed at, at a bistro in Paris. The way he deals with the situation is kind and again humorous. This was the last film directed by Jean-Pierre Dikongué Pipa and it was lost for around two decades.
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP] 1) “Lluís Llach“ (Collecció "Los Autores", SGAE, Barcelona, 1995) is a biography about the Catalan musician and songwriter Llach. ; 2) “Sopa de Cabra. Si et quedes amb mi” (Rosa dels Vents, 2002) is a biography about a Catalan rock band. The vocalist Gerard Quintana decided to make a solo career after their separation. ; 3) “Els Pets. Cara a cara” (Rosa dels Vents, 2003) ; 4) “Vampíria Sound“ (Plaza & Janés Editores S.A., 2004) is a novel about music with thriller and vampirism elements. ; 5) “Enrique Bunbury. Lo demás es silencio” (Plaza & Janés, 2007) ; 6) “Gotholàndia“ (Montena, 2009) is a fantasy novel for older children and teenagers. ; 7) “Eròtica Mix“ (Catalan, Rosa dels Vents, 2009) / “Erótica Mix“ (Spanish, Plaza & Janés, 2009) are four short stories. ; 8) “Pretòria“ (Ara Llibres, 2010)
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]  Drôle de parcours is the fifth studio album by French rapper La Fouine. It was released on 4 February 2013 by his record label Banlieue Sale and Jive Records, and peaked at number 1 on the French Albums Chart.
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP] Patrick Topaloff  Patrick Topaloff (30 December 1944 – 7 March 2010) was a French comedian, singer, and actor.  The son of a Georgian father and a Corsican mother which, according to him, made him "a delicate Franco-Russian dessert", Topaloff began his career on Europe 1, where his comic antics drew a wide audience, especially among children who delighted in his many silly catch phrases. Popular singer Claude François encouraged him to try his hand at singing, and his recording of "Il Vaut Bien Mieux Etre Jeune, Riche et Beau" ("It's Much Better to Be Young, Rich, and Beautiful") became a major hit and the first of several gold records.  In the late 1960s and throughout the 1970s, writer/director Philippe Clair cast Topaloff in a number of slapstick comedy films similar to the "Carry On" series in the UK or those made by Jerry Lewis in the US after splitting with Dean Martin. His last feature film was "Drôles de Zèbres" for writer/director Guy Lux in 1977.  In his later years, problems in Topaloff's private life overshadowed his professional successes. Deeply in debt, he frequently worked without billing in an effort to avoid liens being placed on his salary. In 1995, he was sentenced to a year in prison for non-payment of alimony and taxes. Paroled after four months, he undertook a new and successful stage career.
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP] Alice Sapritch  Alice Sapritch (29 July 1916 – 24 March 1990) was a French film actress. She appeared in 66 films between 1950 and 1989.
What genre is Drôles de zèbres? [SEP]
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP]  Mark Stephen Waters (born June 30, 1964) is an American screenwriter, director, and film producer. He is best known for directing the comedy films Freaky Friday, Mean Girls,  Ghosts of Girlfriends Past, Mr. Popper's Penguins, and Vampire Academy.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP]  local water. An equally drunken Sloan overhears and spreads the story. A panic ensues, with the local newspaper printing the story and commissioning testing of the water supply. Mark, the son of the publisher, objects to his father, but because Mark is himself struggling with his homosexuality and attending meetings of an ex-gay group at the local church, he's limited in what he can do to mitigate the story and the resultant damage. The leader of the ex-gay group, Brother Daniel, announces plans to protest for the closing of Hope House. Alex and Grace renew their friendship and Grace comes out as a lesbian to her. Grace returned
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP]  Daniel Waters (born March 14, 1969 ) is an American author of young adult novels. He lives in Connecticut with his wife and children.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP]  Daniel Waters (born November 10, 1962) is an American screenwriter and film director. He is the older brother of director Mark Waters.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP]  the Japanese military. Beginning in 2012, Robbins next published a four-book series of novels about the US Air Force pararescue jumpers, called the "PJs." The series begins with adventure tale of Somali pirates and international intrigue influenced by Mary Shelley, The Devil's Waters, was published in 2012 and reached #2 on Amazon's sales ranking. The sequel, The Empty Quarter, was published in 2014. The Devil's Horn is the third in the series. The PJ books conclude with The Low Bird, a novel based on the true-to-life rescue of an F-105 pilot downed in the Vietnam War. In 2021, Robbins published another historical epic, Isaac's Beacon, set during the time between the end of WWII in 1945 and the creation of the state of Israel in '48.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP] Mark Waters  Mark Stephen Waters (born June 30, 1964) is an American filmmaker.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP] Mean Girls  Mean Girls is a 2004 American teen comedy film directed by Mark Waters and written by Tina Fey. The film stars Lindsay Lohan, Rachel McAdams, Lacey Chabert, Amanda Seyfried (in her film debut), Tim Meadows, Ana Gasteyer, Amy Poehler and Fey. It is based in part on Rosalind Wiseman's 2002 non-fiction self-help book, "Queen Bees and Wannabes", which describes female high school social cliques, school bullying, and the damaging effects they can have on students. Fey also drew from her own experience at Upper Darby High School as an inspiration for some of the concepts in the film. The plot centers on a naïve teenage girl navigating her way through the social hierarchy of a modern American high school after years of her parents homeschooling her while conducting research in Africa.  "Saturday Night Live" creator Lorne Michaels produced the film. Fey, screenwriter and co-star of the film, was a long-term cast member and writer for "SNL". Although set in the Chicago suburb of Evanston, Illinois, the film was mostly shot in Toronto. Filming took place from September to November 2003. The film marks Lohan's second collaboration with director Waters, the first being "Freaky Friday", released a year earlier.  Released on April 30, 2004, the film grossed $130 million worldwide and developed a cult following.<ref>Multiple sources:
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP] Freaky Friday (2003 film)  Freaky Friday is a 2003 American fantasy-comedy film directed by Mark Waters and written by Heather Hach and Leslie Dixon, based on Mary Rodgers's 1972 novel of the same name. It stars Jamie Lee Curtis and Lindsay Lohan as a mother and daughter, respectively, whose bodies are switched by a mysterious and magical Chinese fortune cookie.  The film was released in theaters on August 6, 2003, by Walt Disney Pictures and distributed by Buena Vista Pictures. The film received largely positive reviews from critics, with praise for the performances (particularly that of Curtis and Lohan), but criticized the transformation scene. The film was also a commercial success, grossing over $160 million worldwide on a $26 million budget. The film also earned Curtis a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy. It was Disney's third film adaptation of the novel, after the 1976 film, starring Barbara Harris and Jodie Foster, and the 1995 made-for-TV film, starring Shelley Long and Gaby Hoffmann.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP] The House of Yes  The House of Yes is a 1997 American dark comedy film adapted from the play of the same name by Wendy MacLeod. The film was written and directed by Mark Waters (in his directing debut), produced by Robert Berger, and stars Parker Posey, Josh Hamilton, Tori Spelling, Freddie Prinze Jr. and Geneviève Bujold. It was released in the United States by Miramax Films on October 10, 1997. "The House of Yes" received a divided critical reaction, with Posey winning a Sundance Award and Spelling receiving a Razzie Award nomination.
What genre is The Mark Waters Story? [SEP] Just like Heaven (film)  Just Like Heaven is a 2005 American romantic comedy fantasy film directed by Mark Waters, starring Reese Witherspoon, Mark Ruffalo, and Jon Heder. It is based on the 1999 French novel "If Only It Were True" ("Et si c'était vrai...") by Marc Levy.  Steven Spielberg obtained the rights to produce the film from the book. The film was released in the United States on September 16, 2005. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $102 million.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP]  Betrayal is a novel by Danielle Steel, published by Delacorte Press in July 2012. The book is Steel's eighty-sixth novel, and (including non-fiction and children's books) her 104th book overall. It reached number 3 in the New York Times hardback fiction bestsellers chart. It is also available in audio book, read by Renee Raudman.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP]  Publishers Weekly called it "absurd" and attacked its cardboard characters, suggesting it was strictly for fans of her earlier work. The Star (Malaysia) found it over-long and repetitive. The Bangkok Post acknowledged its lack of literary value but called it a good read.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP]  Betrayal is a 1978 American made-for-television drama film directed by Paul Wendkos and starring Rip Torn and Lesley Ann Warren, based on a non-fiction book by Julie Roy with Lucy Freedman. The subject is a real life lawsuit about a woman who sued her psychiatrist after he allegedly lured her into a sexual relationship. The film was first aired on NBC Monday Night at the Movies on November 13, 1978.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP]  The Betrayal is a 1966 novel by the British writer L.P. Hartley. It is a sequel to his 1964 work The Brickfield in which an elderly novelist recounts the experiences of his life for his memoirs.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP]  Betrayal is an American drama television series that aired on ABC from September 29, 2013, to January 19, 2014. The series was developed by David Zabel and starred Hannah Ware. It is based on the Dutch drama series Overspel, broadcast by VARA. The pilot episode was directed by Patty Jenkins. Betrayal joined ABC's Sunday line-up after ABC's dramas, Once Upon a Time and Revenge. On May 9, 2014, ABC canceled Betrayal after one season.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP] Betrayal (play)  Betrayal is a play written by Harold Pinter in 1978. Critically regarded as one of the English playwright's major dramatic works, it features his characteristically economical dialogue, characters' hidden emotions and veiled motivations, and their self-absorbed competitive one-upmanship, face-saving, dishonesty, and (self-) deceptions.  Inspired by Pinter's clandestine extramarital affair with BBC Television presenter Joan Bakewell, which spanned seven years, from 1962 to 1969, the plot of "Betrayal" integrates different permutations of betrayal relating to a seven-year affair involving a married couple, Emma and Robert, and Robert's "close friend" Jerry, who is also married, to a woman named Judith. For five years Jerry and Emma carry on their affair without Robert's knowledge, both cuckolding Robert and betraying Judith, until Emma, without telling Jerry she has done so, admits her infidelity to Robert (in effect, betraying Jerry), although she continues their affair. In 1977, four years after exposing the affair (in 1973) and two years after their subsequent break up (in 1975), Emma meets Jerry to tell him that her marriage to Robert is over. She then lies to Jerry in telling him that, "last night", she had to reveal the truth to Robert and that he now knows of the affair. The truth however, is that Robert has known about the affair for the past four years.  Pinter's particular usage of reverse chronology in structuring the plot is innovative: the first two scenes take place after the affair has ended, in 1977; the final scene ends when the affair begins, in 1968; and, in between 1977 and 1968, scenes in two pivotal years (1977 and 1973) move forward chronologically. As Roger Ebert observes, in his review of the 1983 film, based on Pinter's own screenplay, "The "Betrayal" structure strips away all artifice. In this view, the play shows, heartlessly, that the very capacity for love itself is sometimes based on betraying not only other loved ones, but even ourselves." Still, drawing on the frequently commented influence of Proust's "In Search of Lost Time" and Pinter's work on 1977's "The Proust Screenplay" on "Betrayal", more emotionally complex interpretations are possible based on a stress on dual motions, one forward in calendar time toward disillusion and one backward toward the redemptive recovery of time, in each work.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP] Betrayal  Betrayal is the breaking or violation of a presumptive contract, trust, or confidence that produces moral and psychological conflict within a relationship amongst individuals, between organizations or between individuals and organizations. Often betrayal is the act of supporting a rival group, or it is a complete break from previously decided upon or presumed norms by one party from the others. Someone who betrays others is commonly called a traitor or betrayer. Betrayal is also a commonly used literary element, also used in other fiction like films and TV series, and is often associated with or used as a plot twist.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP] Betrayal (Steel novel)  Betrayal is a novel by Danielle Steel, published by Delacorte Press in July 2012. The book is Steel's eighty-sixth novel, and (including non-fiction and children's books) her 104th book overall. It reached number 3 in the New York Times hardback fiction bestsellers chart. It is also available in audio book, read by Renee Raudman.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP] Betrayal at House on the Hill  Betrayal at House on the Hill is a board game published by Avalon Hill in 2004, designed by Bruce Glassco and developed by Rob Daviau, Bill McQuillan, Mike Selinker, and Teeuwynn Woodruff. Players all begin as allies exploring a haunted house filled with dangers, traps, items, and omens. As players journey to new parts of the mansion, room tiles are chosen at random and placed on the game board; this means that the game is different each session. Eventually the "haunt" begins, with the nature and plot of this session's ghost story revealed; one player usually "betrays" the others and takes the side of the ghosts, monsters, or other enemies, while the remaining players collaborate to defeat them.
What genre is Betrayal? [SEP] Krondor: The Betrayal  Krondor: The Betrayal is a fantasy novel by American writer Raymond E. Feist. The first novel in "The Riftwar Legacy", it was first published in November 1998. It is a novelization of the computer game "Betrayal at Krondor".
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]  Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume One is a 2009 collection of 12 fantasy and science fiction short stories by author Tanith Lee, published by Wildside Press. Only one story, '"God and the Pig", is a previously unpublished work. The book includes Lee's very first published short story, "Eustace", originally issued in 1968. The book includes an introduction by Donald Wollheim. The story "The Lady of Shalott House" was nominated for a British Science Fiction Award, and "Where Does the Town Go at Night?" was nominated for a British Fantasy Award. Volume Two of this collection, titled Hunting The Shadows, was released in December 2009.
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP] "Tiger I" ; "Death Loves Me" ; "Anna Medea" ; "Ondralume" ; "After I Killed Her" ; "God and the Pig" ; "The Kingdoms of the Air" ; "Eustace" ; "These Beasts" ; "Cain" ; "The Lady of Shalott House" ; "Where Does the Town Go at Night?" Tempting the Gods contains the following tales:
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]  Hunting The Shadows: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume Two is a 2009 collection of 12 fantasy and science fiction short stories by author Tanith Lee, published by Wildside Press. Only one story, "Queens in Crimson", is a previously unpublished work. The book includes an introduction by Donald Wollheim. Most of the stories of the volume were written in the 1990s, the oldest one having been published in 1989. The story "Doll Skulls" is part of Lee's The Secret Books of Paradys series. Volume one, titled Tempting The Gods, was previously published in February 2009.
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]  Critics agreed that the Gods Are Thirsty was beautifully written despite Tanith Lee's inexperience with historical fiction. Tanith Lee is known as a science fiction writer, but The Gods Are Thirsty is an historical novel However critics were divided on other aspects of the book, citing its length and switches between first and third person narrative which made it confusing to read and difficult to understand, the bloodiness of the narrative, and the density of the research. The Gods Are Thirsty was given a 3.3 out of 5 average customer review.
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]  and over again. Lee has also dabbled in the historical novel with The Gods are Thirsty, set during the French Revolution. During the late 80's she published three collections - Dreams of Dark and Light (1986), Women as Demons (1989) and The Forests of the Night (1989). A large part of her output was children's fantasy, which has spanned her entire career from The Dragon Hoard in 1971 to the more recent The Claidi Journals containing Wolf Tower, Wolf Star, Wolf Queen and Wolf Wing in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Lee was published by various imprints, particularly depending on whether she is offering adult fiction or children's
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP] Tanith Lee bibliography  Bibliography of British science fiction and fantasy writer Tanith Lee:
What genre is Tempting The Gods: The Selected Stories of Tanith Lee, Volume 1? [SEP]
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]  "Let It Be You" is a song written by Kevin Welch and Harry Stinson, and recorded by American country music artist Ricky Skaggs. It was released in July 1989 as the second single from the album Kentucky Thunder. The song reached #5 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles chart.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]  Let It Be Me is a soundtrack album for the 1995 film of the same name.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]  Let It Be is a post-punk album. Westerberg's lyrics feature themes of self-consciousness and rejection as felt by awkward youths, and deal with topics such as generational discontent on "Unsatisfied", uncontrollable arousal on "Gary's Got a Boner", and amateurish sexuality on "Sixteen Blue". According to music critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine, the album's coming-of-age theme is aligned between adolescence and adulthood, and unlike many other adolescent-themed post-punk records, Let It Be remains less on the subject of angst and incorporates humor and more varied music.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]  Let It Be Me is the fourth studio album by the Australian singer Jason Donovan. It was released in November 2008, and was Donovan's first new studio album in 15 years. It reached no.28 in the UK. The album is a collection of cover versions of classic songs from the 1950s and 1960s, with only the final track being an original. Brian Eno produced the bonus track "Nobody But Me".
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]  "Let It Be with You" is a song by British musician Belouis Some, released as a single from his 1987 self-titled second album. The song reached No. 53 on the UK Singles Chart, and No. 13 on the U.S. Hot Dance Club Play chart. Two music videos were filmed to promote the single, with the UK and European version being shot in London. The North American version was shot in New York, directed by Willie Slax and produced by Julian Ludlow for 4-D Productions. It achieved breakout rotation on MTV.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP] Let It Be (Beatles song)  "Let It Be" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, released on 6 March 1970 as a single, and (in an alternative mix) as the title track of their album "Let It Be". It was written and sung by Paul McCartney, and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership. The single version of the song, produced by George Martin, features a softer guitar solo and the orchestral section mixed low, compared with the album version, produced by Phil Spector, featuring a more aggressive guitar solo and the orchestral sections mixed higher.  At the time, it had the highest debut on the "Billboard" Hot 100, beginning its chart run at number 6 and eventually reaching the top. It was the Beatles' final single before McCartney announced his departure from the band. Both the "Let It Be" album and the US single "The Long and Winding Road" were released after McCartney's announced departure from and the subsequent break-up of the group.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP] Let You Down (NF song)  "Let You Down" is a song performed by American rapper and songwriter NF and is his most successful song to date. It serves as the third single from his third studio album, "Perception", released on September 14, 2017. Available for digital download and streaming, it also includes an audio video.  The song is NF's highest-charting song to date, peaking at No. 12 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and topping the Pop Songs chart. As well as reaching mainstream charts internationally, "Let You Down" charted on "Billboard"s Hot Christian Songs and Hot Rhythmic Songs, reaching the No. 1 spot on the former chart. It is his first song to be certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America. It was later certified 3× platinum in the US, and also reached multi-platinum in several other countries, including Canada and Australia.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP] Let Me Call You Sweetheart  "Let Me Call You Sweetheart" is a popular song, with music by Leo Friedman and lyrics by Beth Slater Whitson. The song was published in 1910 and was a huge hit for the Peerless Quartet in 1911. A recording by Arthur Clough was very popular the same year too. A 1924 recording identifies a Spanish title, "Déjame llamarte mía".  The song's recording was selected by the Library of Congress as a 2015 addition to the National Recording Registry, which selects recordings annually that are "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP] Let Me Love You (Mario song)  "Let Me Love You" is a song by American singer Mario, released as a single on October 4, 2004, from his second studio album, "Turning Point" (2004). The song was written by Ne-Yo, Kameron Houff, and Scott Storch, who produced the track. The remix of the song, also produced by Storch, contains rapped verses from Jadakiss and T.I. The song garnered Mario a Grammy Award nomination for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance in 2006 and became a top-10 hit worldwide, reaching number one in the United States, Canada, Germany, the Netherlands, and New Zealand.  In 2008, "Let Me Love You" was ranked at number 45 on "Billboard"s All-Time Top 100 Hot 100 singles during the first 50 years of the chart. It was the eighth most successful single of the decade according to the "Billboard" Hot 100 Songs of the Decade chart released in December 2009. In 2013, it was ranked at number 53 on "Billboard"s All-Time Top 100 Hot 100 singles during the first 55 years of the chart.
What genre is Let It Be You? [SEP]
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP]  Transit to Scorpio is a science fiction novel by British writer Kenneth Bulmer, written under the pseudonym of Alan Burt Akers. It is the first book in his Dray Prescot series of sword and planet novels, set on the fictional world of Kregen, a planet of the Antares star system in the constellation of Scorpio. It was first published by DAW Books in 1972. Bulmer's choice of the setting for the book, and for the series as a whole, is a subtle tribute to the Martian series of Edgar Rice Burroughs, the prototypical Sword and Planet romance. The star Antares, similar in brightness and hue to the planet Mars in the night sky,
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP]  Swordships of Scorpio is a science fiction novel written by Kenneth Bulmer under the pseudonym of Alan Burt Akers (Kenneth Bulmer). It is the fourth volume in his extensive Dray Prescot series of sword and planet novels, set on the fictional world of Kregen, a planet of the Antares star system in the constellation of Scorpio. It was first published by DAW Books in 1973. The Dray Prescot series is made of several cycles of novels, each cycle essentially forming a series within the series. In addition to being the fourth volume in the series as a whole, Swordships of Scorpio is also the fourth volume in the Delian Cycle and, like the second and third volume, is set on the fictional continent of Turismond but also introduces the island of Pandahem for the first time. The 52 completed novels of the Dray Prescot series were written by Bulmer between 1972 and 1997, when a stroke stopped his writing, also the later Dray Prescot books, after 1988, were originally only published in German. The series is in the spirit of Edgar Rice Burroughs John Carter of Mars series.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP]  Prince of Scorpio is a science fiction novel written by Kenneth Bulmer under the pseudonym of Alan Burt Akers. It is the fifth book in his extensive Dray Prescot series of sword and planet novels, set on the fictional world of Kregen, a planet of the Antares star system in the constellation of Scorpio. It was first published by DAW Books in 1974. The Dray Prescot series is made of several cycles of novels, each cycle essentially forming a series within the series. In addition to being the fifth volume in the series as a whole, Prince of Scorpio is also the fifth and final volume in the Delian Cycle. It is set on the fictional island of Vallia. The 52 completed novels of the Dray Prescot series were written by Bulmer between 1972 and 1997, when a stroke stopped his writing, also the later Dray Prescot books, after 1988, were originally only published in German. The series is in the spirit of Edgar Rice Burroughs John Carter of Mars series.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP]  given its name (meaning "like Mars") by early astronomers to compare it to and help distinguish it from the planet. Bulmer is signalling that his series is similar to that of his model. The Dray Prescot series is made of several cycles of novels, each cycle essentially forming a series within the series. In addition to being the first volume in the series as a whole, Transit to Scorpio is the initial volume in the Delian Cycle, which introduces the reader to a number of different Kregen locales as Prescot struggles to find his place in this strange new world and to win the hand of Delia, the love of his life.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP]  Tropic of Scorpio is the debut studio album of American post-hardcore/indie rock band Girls Against Boys, released on December 2, 1992 by record label Adult Swim.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP] Scorpion (TV series)  Scorpion (stylized as </SCORPION>) is an American action drama television series created by Nick Santora for CBS. The series stars Elyes Gabel (Walter O'Brien), Katharine McPhee (Paige Dineen), Eddie Kaye Thomas (Tobias Curtis), Jadyn Wong (Happy Quinn), Ari Stidham (Sylvester "Sly" Dodd), and Robert Patrick (Cabe Gallo). Very loosely based on the life of its executive producer and self-proclaimed computer expert Walter O'Brien, the series centers on O'Brien and his friends helping to solve complex global problems and save lives. The series premiered on September 22, 2014. On October 27, 2014, CBS placed a full-season episode order for the first season. In March 2017, CBS renewed the series for a fourth season, which premiered on September 25, 2017.  "Scorpion" received mixed critical reception. On May 12, 2018, CBS cancelled the series after four seasons.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP] Scorpio (instrumental)  "Scorpio" is a song by Dennis Coffey and the Detroit Guitar Band. It charted at number 6 on the Billboard Hot 100.  The song has been sampled in several hip-hop songs since its release in 1971, most notably Mark Ronson's debut single "Ooh Wee", Public Enemy's "Night of the Living Baseheads", LL Cool J's "Jingling Baby", and Young MC's "Bust a Move".  In 2016, the song was featured in the American television drama series "Better Call Saul" in the episode "Inflatable". The song is played over a montage of lawyer Saul Goodman/Jimmy McGill (played by Bob Odenkirk) as he attempts to get himself fired.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP] Scorpion  Scorpions are predatory arachnids of the order Scorpiones. They have eight legs, and are easily recognized by a pair of grasping pincers and a narrow, segmented tail, often carried in a characteristic forward curve over the back and always ending with a stinger. The evolutionary history of scorpions goes back 435 million years. They mainly live in deserts but have adapted to a wide range of environmental conditions, and can be found on all continents except Antarctica. There are over 2,500 described species, with 22 extant (living) families recognized to date. Their taxonomy is being revised to account for 21st-century genomic studies.  Scorpions primarily prey on insects and other invertebrates, but some species hunt vertebrates. They use their pincers to restrain and kill prey, or to prevent their own predation. The venomous sting is used for offense and defense. During courtship, the male and female grasp each other's pincers and dance while he tries to move her onto his sperm packet. All known species give live birth and the female cares for the young as their exoskeletons harden, transporting them on her back. The exoskeleton contains fluorescent chemicals and glows under ultraviolet light.  The vast majority of species do not seriously threaten humans, and healthy adults usually do not need medical treatment after a sting. About 25 species (fewer than one percent) have venom capable of killing a human, which happens frequently in the parts of the world where they live, primarily where access to medical treatment is unlikely.  Scorpions appear in art, folklore, mythology, and commercial brands. Scorpion motifs are woven into kilim carpets for protection from their sting. Scorpius is the name of a constellation; the corresponding astrological sign is Scorpio. A classical myth about Scorpius tells how the giant scorpion and its enemy Orion became constellations on opposite sides of the sky.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP] The House of the Scorpion  The House of the Scorpion is a 2002 science fiction young adult novel by Nancy Farmer. It is set in the future and mostly takes place in Opium, a country which separates Aztlán (formerly Mexico) and the United States. The main character Matteo Alacrán, or Matt, is a young clone of a drug lord of the same name, usually called "El Patrón". It is a story about the struggle to survive as a free individual and the search for a personal identity.
What genre is Scorpio? [SEP] Scorpions (band)  Scorpions are a German rock band formed in Hanover in 1965 by guitarist Rudolf Schenker. Since the band's inception, its musical style has ranged from hard rock, to soft rock.  During the mid-1970s, with guitarist Uli Jon Roth (who replaced Schenker's younger brother Michael) part of the lineup, the music of the Scorpions was defined as hard rock. The band has released thirteen consecutive studio albums that were in the top 10 in Germany, one of which reached No. 1, as well as three consecutive albums that were in the top 10 in the "Billboard" 200 in the United States. Their latest studio album, "Rock Believer", was released in February 2022.  Scorpions are estimated to have sold over 100 million records around the world, making them one of the best-selling hard rock and heavy metal bands. One of their most recognized hits is "Wind of Change" (from "Crazy World"), a symbolic anthem of the political changes in Eastern Europe in the late 1980s and early 1990s and the fall of the Berlin Wall, and it remains as one of the best-selling singles in the world with over 14 million copies. Two of the songs on their ninth studio album "Love at First Sting", "Rock You Like a Hurricane" and "Still Loving You", are regarded as some of the most influential and popular works, both in heavy metal music and among rock ballads, defined as "rock anthem" and "a true hymn of love".
What genre is Right There? [SEP]  Right There is a 2013 American short film written and directed by Nathan Suher. A romantic comedy about unrequited love, the film starred Ryan Hanley, Lauren Kennedy, Andre Boudreau, and Alexandra Cipolla. It was made as a modern-day silent film and intended by the filmmakers as a homage to the genre.
What genre is Right There? [SEP]  not selected by the Sundance organizers. Right There was subsequently entered into other competitions during the winter season including the Boston International Film Festival, Massachusetts Independent Film Festival, and the SXSW Film Festival. On April 26, 2014, Right There made its film festival debut at the 6th annual SENE Film, Music & Arts Festival in Providence, Rhode Island. It was screened at both the Cable Car Cinema and the historic Columbus Theater. Suher, who was in attendance with producer Lori Suher, was awarded "Best Regional Film". That same month, Suher was a guest on DiHard Radio where he discussed his early life and career, starting his first production company, and the making of Right There.
What genre is Right There? [SEP]  Right There was the ninth film produced by IM Filmworks, a local production company owned by director-producers Nathan Suher and Gregory Capello, as part of a series of comedy shorts set in Southern New England. Like many of their previous films, Right There was based in Suher's hometown of North Attleboro, Massachusetts.
What genre is Right There? [SEP]  There There is the second studio album by Australian singer-songwriter Megan Washington, the first crediting her full name. It was released in Australia on 12 September 2014. The album peaked at number 5 on the ARIA Charts.
What genre is Right There? [SEP]  There There reached number one on the San Francisco Chronicle’s best-seller list, and number eight on The New York Times Best Seller list. A sequel to "There There" was announced by Tommy Orange with a 2022 release date.
What genre is Right There? [SEP] Right There (Ariana Grande song)  "Right There" is a song recorded by American singer Ariana Grande featuring rapper Big Sean. It was written by Grande, Harmony Samuels, H. "Carmen Reece" Culver, J. "Lonny" Bereal, James "J-Doe" Smith, Al Sherrod Lambert, Jeff Lorber and Sean. It features a prominent sample of the jazz instrumental song "Rain Dance" (1979) by The Jeff Lorber Fusion. The song is a throwback to R&B music of the 1990s, a sonority that predominates the production of "Yours Truly" and the first single "The Way", which Grande considered "Right There" as a sequel to, that uses heavy programmed snare drums, snaps and synthesizers as complement of its sound. In the lyrics, Grande expresses her passion to her love interest affirming that she will always be there for him, with Sean responding to her affirmation while using several double entendres in a more sexual perspective.  The song was released on August 6, 2013 as the third and final single from her debut studio album "Yours Truly" (2013). It was praised by music critics who underscored its old-school production, which they felt recalled music released by Mariah Carey in the 1990s. In the United States, the song reached a peak of at number 84 on the "Billboard" Hot 100, while achieving top ten positions on the Dance Club Songs and Rhythmic charts. The single was later certified Gold in the United States by the RIAA, for selling over 500,000 copies.  Its accompanying music video was released on October 30, 2013, directed by the Young Astronauts team who added a concept inspired by William Shakespeare's work "Romeo and Juliet". The video takes place at a Victorian era costume party in a mansion. Grande appears dressed as Juliet, while Patrick Schwarzenegger makes a cameo as Romeo. The video received positive commentaries by some publications. To promote the song, Grande performed for some radio stations across the United States including Los Angeles Power 106 and Capital XTRA, she also promoted it on the televised show, "Jimmy Kimmel Live!". The song was included as part of her set list for her first headlining tour called The Listening Sessions (2013), The Honeymoon Tour (2015) and the Sweetener World Tour (2019).
What genre is Right There? [SEP] Right There (Nicole Scherzinger song)  "Right There" is a song by American singer Nicole Scherzinger, from her debut studio album, "Killer Love" (2011). The song was released on May 17, 2011, as the third single from the album by Interscope and associated record labels. As the third single, a remix was recorded featuring American rapper 50 Cent. The song was originally intended to be the first single to precede the album in the United States. Written by Ester Dean, Frank Romano, Daniel Morris, and co-written and produced by Jim Jonsin, it is an island-flavored midtempo R&B-pop song that sees Scherzinger singing about her what she wants her lover to do and warning other suitors to back off.   Upon its release, "Right There" was praised by critics for its urban production, which stood out from other disco-influenced songs on mainstream radio. Scherzinger also earned praise for the playful nature and Caribbean influences. Music critics compared the song to Bajan artist Rihanna, and her single "Rude Boy". Some critics lamented the song for having lazy lyrics and being overly sexual, critiques Scherzinger denied by calling it a love ballad. In the United Kingdom, the song debuted at number three, giving Scherzinger her fourth consecutive top-ten single.  Outside of the UK, the song peaked in the top-ten of eight other national charts including in Scotland, Ireland, New Zealand, and on "Billboard"s Euro Digital Songs chart. In the US, "Right There" peaked within the top 40 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The song was certified double platinum In Australia by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA), as well gold in both the UK and the US by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), respectively. An accompanying music video, featuring 50 Cent, saw Scherzinger reunite with director Paul Hunter. It features a number of dance scenes set in downtown Los Angeles, with Scherzinger appearing in a Pocahontas-inspired outfit. The visual was the most watched video on YouTube on the day of its release, scoring a similar accolade on MTV's website "Right There" was promoted with multiple live performances across 2011, including appearances and performances on "Britain's Got Talent", "The Graham Norton Show", Capital FM's "Summertime Ball", "American Idol" and "The Ellen DeGeneres Show" show. It was also featured in the setlist for Scherzinger's debut solo concert tour, the Killer Love Tour (2012).
What genre is Right There? [SEP] Be Right There  "Be Right There" is a song recorded by producers Diplo and Sleepy Tom, featuring uncredited vocals from Priscilla Renea. It incorporates lyrics from the 1992 song "Don't Walk Away" by Jade. The song was also featured in the Chinese-French action-adventure film "The Warriors Gate" and in the soundtrack of the 2016 video game "Forza Horizon 3".
What genre is Right There? [SEP] Right There (film)  Right There is a 2013 American short film written and directed by Nathan Suher. A romantic comedy about unrequited love, the film starred Ryan Hanley, Lauren Kennedy, Andre Boudreau, and Alexandra Cipolla. It was made as a modern-day silent film and intended by the filmmakers as a homage to the genre.
What genre is Right There? [SEP] Right Here Waiting  "Right Here Waiting" is a song by American singer and songwriter Richard Marx. It was released on June 29, 1989, as the second single from his second album, "Repeat Offender". The song was a global hit, topping charts in many countries around the world, including the U.S. where it reached number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100. It reached number two on the UK Singles Chart. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.  The song has been covered by many artists, including Monica for her album "The Boy Is Mine".
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]  El usurpador is a Mexican telenovela produced by Televisa for Telesistema Mexicano in 1967.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]  La Usurpadora (English: The Usurper; international title: Deceptions) is a Mexican romantic drama telenovela produced by Salvador Mejia Alejandre and originally broadcast on Canal de las Estrellas from February 9 to July 24, 1998. It starred Gabriela Spanic and Fernando Colunga, and was based on La Intrusa, a novela originally broadcast in Venezuela which was itself a remake of Radio Caracas Television's 1971 telenovela La Usurpadora, which starred Marina Baura and Raúl Amundaray. This was one of the last telenovelas to feature Libertad Lamarque, who here portrayed the character of Abuela Piedad Bracho, until Carita de ángel. The show's premise revolves around a pair of twin sisters who were separated when they were young, and as adults
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]  La usurpadora, is a Venezuelan telenovela created by Inés Rodena and adapted by Ana Mercedes Escámez for Radio Caracas Televisión in 1971. This was the first adaptation that made the original story of Inés Rodena. Marina Baura and Raúl Amundaray star as the main protagonists.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]  Rodena's 1998 telenovela, the basis for the show, was itself based on Daphne du Maurier's 1957 The Scapegoat, and took inspiration from several previous Latin American versions, particularly a 1971 Venezuelan telenovela of the story. In 1981, Valentín Pimstein made the first Mexican version of Rodena's novel, called El hogar que yo robé, with Venezuela creating another version, called La intrusa, in 1986. Though the 1998 version was the most popular during its run and is said to be not only the best version, but one of the most popular of all telenovelas, another remake had been made in 2012, ¿Quién eres tú? co-produced by Mexico with Colombia and the United States.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]  La usurpadora (English: The Usurper) is a Mexican television series produced by Carmen Armendáriz for Televisa. It is a reboot based on the 1998 Mexican telenovela of the same name and the first series of the anthology series "Fábrica de sueños". In the series, the character Paola Miranda, the First Lady of Mexico, discovers she has a twin sister and tries to swap lives with her. The show began filming on 25 April 2019, with the first five episodes given a special pre-release online on 30 August 2019. The series then ran from 2 September to 4 October 2019, on Las Estrellas. The first and only season consisted of 25 episodes.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP] El usurpador  El usurpador is a Mexican telenovela produced by Televisa for Telesistema Mexicano in 1967.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP] La usurpadora (1998 TV series)  La Usurpadora (English: "The Usurper"; international title: "Deceptions") is a Mexican romantic drama telenovela produced by Salvador Mejia Alejandre and originally broadcast on Canal de las Estrellas from February 9 to July 24, 1998. It starred Gabriela Spanic and Fernando Colunga, and was based on "La Intrusa", a novela originally broadcast in Venezuela which was itself a remake of Radio Caracas Television's 1971 telenovela "La Usurpadora", which starred Marina Baura and Raúl Amundaray. This was one of the last telenovelas to feature Libertad Lamarque, who here portrayed the character of Abuela Piedad Bracho, until "Carita de ángel". The show's premise revolves around a pair of twin sisters who were separated when they were young, and as adults the younger sister is forced to act as a "replacement" for her wealthy twin who wants to temporarily leave her husband and his family to enjoy a life of luxury with multiple lovers. The telenovela had huge success in Mexico with ratings of 38.4 and has been exported and ported to various languages across the world.  Gabriela Spanic has a dual role as the protagonist/main antagonist, Fernando Colunga starred as the protagonist. Chantal Andere, Dominika Paleta, Azela Robinson, Mario Cimarro and Juan Pablo Gamboa starred as the antagonists. It was the first on-screen collaboration between Colunga and Spanic, who both later worked in "Soy tu Dueña".  Yadhira Carrillo as special guest antagonist at "Mas Alla de la Usurpadora".
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP] Victoriano Huerta  José Victoriano Huerta Márquez (; 22 December 1850 – 13 January 1916) was a general in the Mexican Federal Army and 39th President of Mexico, who came to power by coup against the democratically elected government of Francisco I. Madero with the aid of other Mexican generals and the U.S. Ambassador to Mexico. His violent seizure of power set off a new wave of armed conflict in the Mexican Revolution.  After a military career under President Porfirio Díaz and Interim President Francisco León de la Barra, Huerta became a high-ranking officer during the presidency of Madero during the first phase of the Mexican Revolution (1911–13). In February 1913 Huerta joined a conspiracy against Madero, who entrusted him to control a revolt in Mexico City. The Ten Tragic Days – actually fifteen days – saw the forced resignation of Madero and his vice president and their murders. The coup was backed by the nascent German Empire as well as the United States under the Taft administration. But the succeeding Wilson administration refused to recognize the new regime which had come to power by coup. The U.S. allowed arms sales to rebel forces. Many foreign powers did recognize the regime, including Britain and Germany, but withdrew further support when revolutionary forces started to show military success against the regime; their continuing support of him threatened their own relationships with the U.S. government.   Huerta's government resisted the U.S. incursion into the port of Veracruz that violated Mexico's sovereignty. Even Huerta's opponents agreed with his stance. The Constitutionalist Army, the forces of the northern coalition opposing Huerta, defeated the Federal Army. Huerta was forced to resign in July 1914 and flee the country to Spain, only 17 months into his presidency, after the Federal Army collapsed. While attempting to intrigue with German spies in the U.S. during World War I, Huerta was arrested in 1915 and died in U.S. custody.  His supporters were known as "Huertistas" during the Mexican Revolution. He is still vilified as a traitor, by modern-day Mexicans, who generally refer to him as "El Chacal" ("The Jackal") or "El Usurpador" ("The Usurper").
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP] La usurpadora (2019 TV series)  La usurpadora (English: "The Usurper") is a Mexican television series produced by Carmen Armendáriz for Televisa. It is a reboot based on the 1998 Mexican telenovela of the same name and the first series of the anthology series "Fábrica de sueños". In the series, the character Paola Miranda, the First Lady of Mexico, discovers she has a twin sister and tries to swap lives with her.  The show began filming on 25 April 2019, with the first five episodes given a special pre-release online on 30 August 2019. The series then ran from 2 September to 4 October 2019, on Las Estrellas. The first and only season consisted of 25 episodes.
What genre is El usurpador? [SEP]
What genre is Fire? [SEP]  Fire is a fantasy novel by Kristin Cashore, a companion book to her debut novel, Graceling. It tells the story of a young monster in the shape of a human who is hated because of her difference and supernatural abilities. The novel debuted at number four on The New York Times Best Seller list and won several awards.
What genre is Fire? [SEP]  Fire (stylized "fiRe") is the fifth album released by Swedish group Hedningarna, translated to "The Heathens" for the international market. It is a compilation album put together to introduce the group outside Sweden, containing tracks from the albums Kaksi! and Tra.
What genre is Fire? [SEP]  Fire is an apocalyptic science fiction/horror novel by Alan Rodgers, published in 1990 as an original paperback from Bantam Books. It was reprinted by specialty publisher Wildside Press in 2000.
What genre is Fire? [SEP]  Fires is the second album by London-born singer-songwriter Nerina Pallot. First released in April 2005 on her own independent record label, Idaho Records, Fires was met with much critical acclaim but did not gain commercial recognition. After working as a support act for artists such as Sheryl Crow and Suzanne Vega, Pallot was signed up to 14th Floor Records, who were impressed with the audience response and after-show sales of her album. Thus, Fires was reissued in late April 2006 with revamped artwork and some slight remixes on some of Pallot's songs. The album entered at UK #41 and later, on the strength of the popular single "Everybody's Gone to War", made it as far as #21. To date, the album has been certified gold in the UK for sales of over 100,000, and has earned Pallot a nomination at the 2007 BRIT Awards for Best British Female. As of 4 October 2009, the album has sold 138,563 copies in the UK.
What genre is Fire? [SEP]  Fire is the debut studio album by American rock band Electric Six. It was released through XL Recordings on May 20, 2003. It was preceded by the hit single "Danger! High Voltage", which peaked at number 2 on the UK Singles Chart. The album peaked at number 7 in the UK and received positive reviews from critics.
What genre is Fire? [SEP] Arcade Fire  Arcade Fire is a Canadian indie rock band, consisting of husband and wife Win Butler and Régine Chassagne, alongside Richard Reed Parry, Tim Kingsbury and Jeremy Gara. The band's current touring line-up also includes former core member Sarah Neufeld and multi-instrumentalists Paul Beaubrun, Dan Boeckner and Eric Heigle. Each of the band's studio albums features contributions from composer and violinist Owen Pallett.  Founded in 2001 by friends and classmates Butler and Josh Deu, the band came to prominence in 2004 with the release of their critically acclaimed debut album "Funeral". Their second studio album, "Neon Bible", won them the 2008 Meteor Music Award for Best International Album and the 2008 Juno Award for Alternative Album of the Year. Their third studio album, "The Suburbs", was released in 2010 to critical acclaim and commercial success. It received many accolades, including the 2011 Grammy for Album of the Year, the 2011 Juno Award for Album of the Year and the 2011 Brit Award for Best International Album. In 2013, Arcade Fire released their fourth album, "Reflektor", and scored the feature film "Her", for which band members Will Butler and Owen Pallett were nominated in the Best Original Score category at the 86th Academy Awards. In 2017, the band released their fifth studio album "Everything Now", which was succeeded by their sixth studio album "We" in 2022.  All the band's studio albums have received nominations for Best Alternative Music Album at the Grammys. "Funeral" is widely considered by music critics to be one of the greatest albums of the 2000s. The band's work has also been named three times as a shortlist nominee for the Polaris Music Prize: in 2007 for "Neon Bible", in 2011 for "The Suburbs" and in 2014 for "Reflektor".  The band has been described as indie rock, art rock, dance-rock, and baroque pop. They play guitar, drums, bass guitar, piano, violin, viola, cello, double bass, xylophone, glockenspiel, keyboard, synthesizer, French horn, accordion, harp, mandolin and hurdy-gurdy, and take most of these instruments on tour; the multi-instrumentalist band members switch duties throughout shows.
What genre is Fire? [SEP] Fire Force  An anime television series adaptation by David Production aired from July to December 2019 on the MBS's Super Animeism block. A second season aired from July to December 2020. A third season has been announced. The anime television series has been licensed by Funimation.  As of May 2022, the "Fire Force" manga had over 20 million copies in circulation.
What genre is Fire? [SEP] Fire Emblem  A notable aspect of gameplay is the permanent death of characters in battle, removing them from the rest of the game when they are defeated. In newer games, from "" onwards, players get to choose between Classic Mode, in which fallen characters remain dead, or Casual Mode, in which fallen characters are revived for the next battle. The series title refers to the "Fire Emblem", a recurring element in the series that is usually portrayed as a royal weapon or shield representing the power of war and dragons. The development of the first game began as a dōjin project by Shouzou Kaga and three other developers. Its success prompted the development of further games in the series. Kaga headed the development of each entry until the release of "," when he left Intelligent Systems and founded his game studio to develop "Tear Ring Saga".  No games in the series were released outside of Japan until two characters, Marth and Roy, were included as playable characters in the 2001 fighting game "Super Smash Bros. Melee". Their popularity, as well as the international success of the similarly turn-based "Advance Wars", eventually convinced Nintendo to release future games in Western territories, starting with the seventh game "" under the title "Fire Emblem" in 2003. Many games in the series sold well, although sales suffered a decline during the 2000s. This resulted in the series' near-cancellation, a fate that was reversed with the unprecedented critical and commercial success of "Fire Emblem Awakening" (2012). Individual entries have generally been praised, the series as a whole has been lauded for its gameplay, and it is frequently cited as the seminal series in the tactical role-playing genre, codifying various gameplay elements that would come to define the genre. Characters from across the series have also been included in crossovers with other video game franchises, including the aforementioned "Super Smash Bros." series.
What genre is Fire? [SEP]
What genre is Fire? [SEP] Fire Punch
What genre is The Moment? [SEP]  Album Single
What genre is The Moment? [SEP]  The album received a nomination in the category of "Contemporary Christian/Gospel Album of the Year" for the Juno Awards of 2015.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP]  The Moment is the seventh studio album by the Christian rapper Manafest. It was released on August 5, 2014 under BEC Recordings. The album was fan-funded through a PledgeMusic campaign. The album marks Manafest's final release with his long-time affiliate label BEC Recordings before moving to a fully independent status for his next album Reborn.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP]  All tracks were produced by Christian Martinez.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP]  The Moment is the third album by Irish singer/songwriter Jimmy MacCarthy, released in 2002 by his own record label, Ride On Records.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP] In This Moment  In This Moment is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed by singer Maria Brink and guitarist Chris Howorth in 2005. They found drummer Jeff Fabb and started the band as Dying Star. Unhappy with their musical direction, they changed their name to In This Moment and gained two band members, guitarist Blake Bunzel and bassist Josh Newell. In 2005, bassist Newell left the band and was replaced by Jesse Landry.  Their debut album, "Beautiful Tragedy", was released in 2007. Their follow up, titled "The Dream" was released the following year debuting at number 73 on the "Billboard" 200. The band's third album, "A Star-Crossed Wasteland" was released in 2010, and their fourth album titled "Blood" was released in August 2012 and debuted at number 15. Their fifth album titled "Black Widow" was released in November 2014 and debuted at number 8, their highest position in the charts to date. "Ritual", their sixth, was released in the summer of 2017 and debuted at number 23. Their seventh studio album, "Mother" was released on March 27, 2020. They have received two nominations of Alternative Press Music Awards, including two for Best Hard Rock Artist and one for Best Live Band. They have also received a Grammy nomination for Best Metal Performance. To date, the band has 4 singles and an album certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  The band's line-up has changed several times. Landry was replaced by Kyle Konkiel in 2009 and Konkiel was replaced by Travis Johnson in 2010. Jeff Fabb and Blake Bunzel left the band in 2011, and were replaced by Tom Hane and Randy Weitzel respectively. In March 2016, drummer Tom Hane announced his departure from the band and was replaced by Kent Diimmel, formerly of 3 By Design.  Throughout their career, the band has performed on several notable tours and festivals including Ozzfest in 2007 and 2008; Warped Tour in 2009; Download Festival in 2009, 2013, and 2018; Mayhem Festival in 2010; Music as a Weapon V tour in 2011; Uproar Festival in 2012; Rock on the Range in 2012, 2013, and 2015; Carnival of Madness tour in 2013; Knotfest in 2014; Rockfest and Rocklahoma in 2015; Carolina Rebellion in 2018; Louder Than Life in 2017 and 2019; Aftershock in 2014, 2017, and 2021; Welcome to Rockville in 2013, 2015, 2017, and 2019; and Knotfest in 2022.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP] Moment 4 Life  "Moment 4 Life" is a song by Trinidadian-American rapper and singer Nicki Minaj featuring Canadian rapper Drake. It serves as the fourth single from Minaj's debut studio album "Pink Friday" (2010). The song was produced by T-Minus and written by both artists. Sonically, it is a hip hop song that lyrically relates to maintaining a feeling of accomplishment and enjoying the moment.  The single peaked at number 13 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and topped the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs and Hot Rap Songs charts. It also saw success internationally, becoming a top 40 hit in Canada, Ireland, and the United Kingdom, as well as charting in Belgium and France. In the US, it has sold over two million digital downloads as of December 2014. The song received a nomination for Best Rap Performance at the 2012 Grammy Awards.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP] A Moment Apart  A Moment Apart is the third studio album by the American electronic music duo Odesza, released on 8 September 2017 through Counter, Ninja Tune and the duo's own label, Foreign Family Collective. It is the duo's first album in three years after their second album, "In Return," and the first released through Foreign Family Collective.  The album was teased in March 2016 through social media. Afterwards, the singles "Line of Sight" and "Late Night" were released in April 2017 as the lead singles. Following the album's announcement in June, "Meridian" and "Corners of the Earth" were released as the third and fourth singles. "Higher Ground", the fifth single, was released in July and "Across The Room", the sixth and final single, was released in October. The album features contributions from Leon Bridges, Kelsey Bulkin, The Chamanas, Mansionair, Sasha Alex Sloan, Regina Spektor, Naomi Wild, WYNNE and RY X.  The album received positive reviews from critics, with praise toward its production values and composition, and debuted at #3 on the "Billboard 200". The album was nominated for Best Dance/Electronic Album, with "Line of Sight" nominated for Best Dance Recording, at the 60th Grammy Awards.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP] Feel This Moment  "Feel This Moment" is a song by the American rapper Pitbull, featuring American singer Christina Aguilera. The song was released on February 22, 2013, as the fourth single from the album by Mr. 305, Polo Grounds Music and RCA Records "Global Warming", which was released in 2012. It is a dance-pop number that talks about stopping to take a moment to appreciate life. "Feel This Moment" was written by the artists alongside Chantal Kreviazuk and producers Nasri Atweh, Adam Messinger, Sir Nolan, and DJ Buddha. The song interpolates "Take On Me" by A-ha, written and composed by Morten Harket, Paul Waaktaar-Savoy, and Magne Furuholmen.  "Feel This Moment" received generally favorable reviews from music critics, who praised Aguilera's appearance and the ”Take On Me” interpolation used on the song, and some of whom compared the song's theme to songs by Ludacris, David Guetta, Usher and Kesha. "Feel This Moment" was a commercial success, peaking at number eight on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and was certified quadruple platinum in October 2020. Outside of the United States, "Feel This Moment" peaked within the top ten of the charts in many countries including Australia, Belgium, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. It garnered multiple certifications in many regions, including by the Australian Recording Industry Association and the British Phonographic Industry.  An accompanying music video for "Feel This Moment" was directed by David Rousseau and was released on March 15, 2013. The video was shot in a black and white scene, featuring several shots from Pitbull's Planet Pit World Tour and Aguilera with big curly hair. The clip garnered positive feedback, who praised Aguilera's new figure in it. At the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards, the video was nominated for Best Collaboration. The duo performed "Feel This Moment" on a number of occasions, including at the 2012 American Music Awards, 2013 Kids' Choice Awards, and the 2013 "Billboard" Music Awards; in this last, Morten Harket himself, the lead-singer of A-ha, was featured as a guest star.
What genre is The Moment? [SEP] This Magic Moment  "This Magic Moment" is a song composed by lyricist Doc Pomus and pianist Mort Shuman. It was first recorded by The Drifters, with Ben E. King singing lead.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]  Strangers is a science fiction novel by American author Gardner Dozois, published in 1978. The novel was expanded from its original form as a novella, which first appeared in New Dimensions IV (edited by Robert Silverberg) in 1974. The novella was nominated for both the Hugo and Locus Poll Award, and has since been collected in Dozois's short fiction collection, Strange Days: Fabulous Journeys with Gardner Dozois. The expanded novel was originally published by Berkley Books, and was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel and the Locus Poll Award. It was reprinted by iBooks in 2003.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]  Strangers is a French comic book depicting a superhero team, consisting of many of Editions Lug' most popular heroes, all aliens residing on Earth (hence its name). It was written by Jean-Marc Lofficier and illustrated by various artists for publishers Semic Comics and Image Comics in 2002 and 2003.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]  Strangers is a novel written by Dean Koontz, released in 1986.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]  The Strangers is the title of a comic book series created and written by Steve Englehart. It was originally drawn by Rick Hoberg for Malibu Comics’ Ultraverse imprint which was bought by Marvel Comics during the 1990s. The Strangers consisted of a group of random passengers on a cable car who were struck by what they believed to be a bolt of lightning, but was actually a "jumpstart": one of the bursts of energy emitted by the Entity from the Moon, which transformed them into "Ultras".
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]  The Strangers is a 2008 American psychological horror film written and directed by Bryan Bertino. The plot follows Kristen (Liv Tyler) and James (Scott Speedman) whose stay at a vacation home is disrupted by three masked criminals who infiltrate the home. The screenplay was inspired by two real-life events: the multiple-homicide Manson family Tate murders and a series of break-ins that occurred in Bertino's neighborhood as a child. Some journalists noted similarities between the film and the Keddie cabin murders that occurred in Keddie, California in 1981, though Bertino did not cite this as a reference. Made on a budget of $9 million, the film was shot on location in rural
What genre is Strangers? [SEP]
What genre is Strangers? [SEP] Strangers in the Night  "Strangers in the Night" is a song composed by Bert Kaempfert with English lyrics by Charles Singleton and Eddie Snyder.<ref name=pc22/>  Reaching #1 on both the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and the Easy Listening chart, it was the title song for Sinatra's 1966 album "Strangers in the Night", which became his most commercially successful album. The song also reached No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart.  Sinatra's recording won him the Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance and the Grammy Award for Record of the Year, as well as a Grammy Award for Best Arrangement Accompanying a Vocalist or Instrumentalist for Ernie Freeman at the Grammy Awards of 1967.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP] Liquid Stranger  Martin Stääf (born 13 November 1978), aka Liquid Stranger, is a Swedish-born electronic musician, described by Generation Bass as "the epitome of Transnational Dubstep covering everything from Latin, Asian, Eastern European and Jamaican Dancehall dubs." Martin Stääf is known for his experimental approach to composition where he merges genres to create a unique style of music. Martin Woods of Chillbase describes Liquid Stranger's music as a "unique blend of Ambience, Big Band Jazz, Dubstep and Psychedelica drizzled over electronic Dub Reggae grooves." Stääf lives in Edmond, Oklahoma.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP] A Place to Bury Strangers  A Place to Bury Strangers are an American, New York City-based noise rock band, composed of Oliver Ackermann (guitar/vocals, bass), John Fedowitz (bass guitar) and Sandra Fedowitz (drums). The band, commonly known by the initials APTBS, play a heavy, atmospheric Wall of Sound–influenced blend of psychedelic rock, shoegaze and space rock.
What genre is Strangers? [SEP] The Stranger (Camus novel)  The Stranger ( ), also published in English as The Outsider, is a 1942 novella by French author Albert Camus. Its theme and outlook are often cited as examples of Camus' philosophy, absurdism, coupled with existentialism; though Camus personally rejected the latter label.  The title character is Meursault, an indifferent French settler in Algeria described as "a citizen of France domiciled in North Africa, a man of the Mediterranean, an "homme du midi" yet one who hardly partakes of the traditional Mediterranean culture." Weeks after his mother's funeral, he kills an Arab man in French Algiers, who was involved in a conflict with one of Meursault's neighbors. Meursault is tried and sentenced to death. The story is divided into two parts, presenting Meursault's first-person narrative view before and after the murder, respectively.  In January 1955, Camus wrote this:  "The Stranger"s first edition consisted of only 4,400 copies, which was so few that it could not be a best-seller. Since the novella was published during the Nazi occupation of France, there was a possibility that the Propaganda-Staffel would censor it, but a representative of the Occupation authorities felt it contained nothing damaging to their cause, so it was published without omissions. However, the novel was well received in anti-Nazi circles in addition to Jean-Paul Sartre's article "Explication de "L'Étranger".  Translated four times into English, and also into numerous other languages, the novel has long been considered a classic of 20th-century literature. "Le Monde" ranks it as number one on its 100 Books of the Century.  The novel was twice adapted as films: "Lo Straniero" (1967) (Italian) by Luchino Visconti and "Yazgı" (2001, "Fate") by Zeki Demirkubuz (Turkish).
What genre is Info? [SEP]  .info (originally INFO=64) was a computer magazine covering Commodore 8-bit computers and later the Amiga. It was published from 1983 to 1992.
What genre is Info? [SEP]  Infobase Publishing is an American publisher of reference book titles and textbooks geared towards the North American library, secondary school, and university-level curriculum markets. Infobase operates a number of prominent imprints, including Facts On File, Films for the Humanities & Sciences, Cambridge Educational, Chelsea House (which also serves as the imprint for the special collection series, "Bloom's Literary Criticism" under the direction of literary critic Harold Bloom), and Ferguson Publishing.
What genre is Info? [SEP]  Info Wars (styled as info wars) is a 2004 film about the mechanics of modern information warfare and media hacking. It shows some of the ways special interests manipulate modern mass media to reach their ends. The film is named after InfoWars, launched in 1999.
What genre is Info? [SEP] Facts On File ; Films for the Humanities & Sciences ; Cambridge Educational ; Chelsea House Publishing ; Bloom's Literary Criticism ; World Almanac ; Ferguson Publishing
What genre is Info? [SEP]  Info-Cult, also known as Info-Secte, is a non-profit group that offers information to the Canadian public about religious cults and related topics. From its office in Montreal, it also provides support to people who were victimized as members of a sect. The group was founded by Mike Kropveld, who is still its Executive Director. In 1977, Kropveld was involved with journalist Josh Freed and others in rescuing a friend who got involved with Sun Myung Moon’s Unification Church. Freed wrote a series of six news reports for the Montreal Star about the intervention, then a book (Moonwebs: Journey into the Mind of a Cult). Director Ralph L. Thomas subsequently made the story into the award-winning film Ticket to Heaven. Faced with the large number of
What genre is Info? [SEP] Genre  Genre () is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed-upon conventions developed over time. In popular usage, it normally describes a category of literature, music, or other forms of art or entertainment, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria, yet genres can be aesthetic, rhetorical, communicative, or functional. Genres form by conventions that change over time as cultures invent new genres and discontinue the use of old ones. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions. Stand-alone texts, works, or pieces of communication may have individual styles, but genres are amalgams of these texts based on agreed-upon or socially inferred conventions. Some genres may have rigid, strictly adhered-to guidelines, while others may show great flexibility.  Genre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature, as set out in Aristotle's "Poetics". For Aristotle, poetry (odes, epics, etc.), prose, and performance each had specific design features that supported appropriate content of each genre. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, for example, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best.  Genres proliferate and develop beyond Aristotle’s classifications in response to changes in audiences and creators. Genre has become a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictability through artistic expression. Given that art is often a response to a social state, in that people write, paint, sing, dance, and otherwise produce art about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings.  Musician Ezra LaFleur argues that discussion of genre should draw from Ludwig Wittgenstein's idea of family resemblance. Genres are helpful labels for communicating but do not necessarily have a single attribute that is the essence of the genre.
What genre is Info? [SEP] Music genre  A music genre is a conventional category that identifies some pieces of music as belonging to a shared tradition or set of conventions. It is to be distinguished from "musical form" and musical style, although in practice these terms are sometimes used interchangeably.  Music can be divided into genres in varying ways, such as popular music and art music, or religious music and secular music. The artistic nature of music means that these classifications are often subjective and controversial, and some genres may overlap.
What genre is Info? [SEP]
What genre is Info? [SEP] Information Society (band)  Information Society (also known as InSoc) is an American band from Minneapolis–St. Paul, Minnesota, initially active from 1982 to 1997, primarily consisting of Kurt Harland Larson, Paul Robb, and James Cassidy; the latter two reconvened the band in 2006, initially with Christopher Anton as lead vocalist, then with Harland rejoining them as lead vocalist by 2008.  The group's breakout single was 1988's "What's on Your Mind (Pure Energy)", a dance song which spent 39 weeks on the dance chart, going straight to number one and would also peak at number three on the Hot 100 pop chart. The track included a vocal sample of Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy) from "Star Trek", saying "pure energy".  The band has been honored with a star on the outside mural of the Minneapolis nightclub First Avenue, recognizing performers that have played sold-out shows or have otherwise demonstrated a major contribution to the culture at the iconic venue. Receiving a star "might be the most prestigious public honor an artist can receive in Minneapolis," according to journalist Steve Marsh.
What genre is Info? [SEP] Thriller (genre)  Thriller is a genre of fiction, having numerous, often overlapping subgenres. Thrillers are characterized and defined by the moods they elicit, giving viewers heightened feelings of suspense, excitement, surprise, anticipation and anxiety. Successful examples of thrillers are the films of Alfred Hitchcock.  Thrillers generally keep the audience on the "edge of their seats" as the plot builds towards a climax. The cover-up of important information is a common element. Literary devices such as red herrings, plot twists, unreliable narrators, and cliffhangers are used extensively. A thriller is often a villain-driven plot, whereby they present obstacles that the protagonist must overcome.  The most common genres that overlap with the thriller genre include crime, horror and detective fiction.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]  Theatre-fiction refers to novels and short-stories that focus on theatre. Characters often include actors, playwrights, directors, prompters, understudies, set designers, critics, or casting agents. Common settings may include theatre auditoriums, dressing rooms, rehearsal spaces, or other places in which theatre is created and performed. Theatre-fiction may engage with and represent many different varieties of theatre, from performances of Shakespearean tragedy to Kabuki theatre to pantomime or marionette shows.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]  Theatre is a novel by the British writer W. Somerset Maugham, first published in 1937 by William Heinemann (UK) and Doubleday Doran (US). The novel describes a successful actress and her husband, a theatre manager; her life and career is disturbed by a stormy affair with a young accountant.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]  Theatre (or theater) (Greek "theatron", θέατρον) is the branch of the performing arts concerned with acting out stories in front of an audience using combinations of speech, gesture, music, dance, sound and spectacle — indeed any one or more elements of the other performing arts. In addition to the standard narrative dialogue style, theatre takes such forms as opera, ballet, mime, kabuki, classical Indian dance, Chinese opera, mummers' plays, and pantomime.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]  The Cumberland Theatre produces a variety of plays. The artistic director posts a brief synopsis of the play and usually a subjective rating, based on the language and themes contained in the shows. The wide variety of genres include, comedy, drama, horror/thriller, musical, colonial, autobiographical, romance, crime, and mystery. Over the years musicals have proven to be generally the most popular, followed by comedies and thrillers. Furthermore, the theatre has produced many shows featuring stories specific to different minorities. Some examples are: The Diary of Anne Frank, Ain't Misbehavin', Hairspray, The All Night Strut, and To Kill A Mockingbird.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]  Teatro di narrazione (narrative theatre) is a style of theatre, developed in Italy in the later decades of the 20th century, in which there are no actors or action, but only a "narrattore" (a neologism for narrator-actor, or "narractor") who tells the story in narrative form.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP]
What genre is Theatre? [SEP] Theatre music  Theatre music refers to a wide range of music composed or adapted for performance in theatres. Genres of theatre music include opera, ballet and several forms of musical theatre, from pantomime to operetta and modern stage musicals and revues. Another form of theatre music is incidental music, which, as in radio, film and television, is used to accompany the action or to separate the scenes of a play. The physical embodiment of the music is called a score, which includes the music and, if there are lyrics, it also shows the lyrics.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP] Musical theatre  Musical theatre is a form of theatrical performance that combines songs, spoken dialogue, acting and dance. The story and emotional content of a musical – humor, pathos, love, anger – are communicated through words, music, movement and technical aspects of the entertainment as an integrated whole. Although musical theatre overlaps with other theatrical forms like opera and dance, it may be distinguished by the equal importance given to the music as compared with the dialogue, movement and other elements. Since the early 20th century, musical theatre stage works have generally been called, simply, musicals.  Although music has been a part of dramatic presentations since ancient times, modern Western musical theatre emerged during the 19th century, with many structural elements established by the works of Gilbert and Sullivan in Britain and those of Harrigan and Hart in America. These were followed by the numerous Edwardian musical comedies and the musical theatre works of American creators like George M. Cohan at the turn of the 20th century. The Princess Theatre musicals (1915–1918) were artistic steps forward beyond revues and other frothy entertainments of the early 20th century and led to such groundbreaking works as "Show Boat" (1927), "Of Thee I Sing" (1931) and "Oklahoma!" (1943). Some of the most famous musicals through the decades that followed include "My Fair Lady" (1956), "The Fantasticks" (1960), "Hair" (1967), "A Chorus Line" (1975), "Les Misérables" (1985), "The Phantom of the Opera" (1986), "Rent" (1996), "The Producers" (2001), "Wicked" (2003) and "Hamilton" (2015).  Musicals are performed around the world. They may be presented in large venues, such as big-budget Broadway or West End productions in New York City or London. Alternatively, musicals may be staged in smaller venues, such as fringe theatre, off-Broadway, off-off-Broadway, regional theatre, or community theatre productions, or on tour. Musicals are often presented by amateur and school groups in churches, schools and other performance spaces. In addition to the United States and Britain, there are vibrant musical theatre scenes in continental Europe, Asia, Australasia, Canada and Latin America.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP] Theatre of Tragedy  Theatre of Tragedy was a Norwegian band from Stavanger, active between 1993 and 2010. They are best known for their earlier albums, which influenced the gothic metal genre.
What genre is Theatre? [SEP] Vaudeville  Vaudeville (; ) is a theatrical genre of variety entertainment born in France at the end of the 19th century. A vaudeville was originally a comedy without psychological or moral intentions, based on a comical situation: a dramatic composition or light poetry, interspersed with songs or ballets. It became popular in the United States and Canada from the early 1880s until the early 1930s, but the idea of vaudeville's theatre changed radically from its French antecedent.  In some ways analogous to music hall from Victorian Britain, a typical North American vaudeville performance was made up of a series of separate, unrelated acts grouped together on a common bill. Types of acts have included popular and classical musicians, singers, dancers, comedians, trained animals, magicians, ventriloquists, strongmen, female and male impersonators, acrobats, clowns, illustrated songs, jugglers, one-act plays or scenes from plays, athletes, lecturing celebrities, minstrels, and movies. A vaudeville performer is often referred to as a "vaudevillian".  Vaudeville developed from many sources, also including the concert saloon, minstrelsy, freak shows, dime museums, and literary American burlesque. Called "the heart of American show business", vaudeville was one of the most popular types of entertainment in North America for several decades.
What genre is Background? [SEP]  Background Music is the debut studio album by the American hardcore punk band Give Up the Ghost. The album was originally released on June 12, 2001 through Equal Vision Records under the name American Nightmare, but was later reissued in 2003 under the name Give Up the Ghost after another band named American Nightmare filed a cease and desist order. Background Music was also reissued in 2011 through Deathwish Inc. in celebration of the band's reunion shows.
What genre is Background? [SEP]  Background music (often abbreviated BGM) is the music in video games (sometimes written VGM) and music in websites.
What genre is Background? [SEP]  Living in the Background is the debut album of Italy-based act Baltimora, released in 1985.
What genre is Background? [SEP]  Internet-delivered background music was delivered by companies as Mood Media (which had acquired Trusonic, which had acquired Muzak). This allowed the retailer to instantly update music and messages which were deployed at the store level as opposed to using older compact disc and satellite technologies.
What genre is Background? [SEP]  Background (U.S. Edge of Divorce) is a 1953 British domestic drama film dealing with the effects of divorce, directed by Daniel Birt and starring Valerie Hobson, Philip Friend and Norman Wooland. It was based on the 1950 play of the same title by Warren Chetham-Strode, who also wrote the screenplay for the film. It was made at Southall Studios, with sets designed by the art director Michael Stringer. A contemporary review in the Glasgow Herald gave the film a muted response, describing Hobson as "shrill" and Wooland as "too sympathetic", adding : " A heroic effort is made to apportion the blame fairly...yet intrinsically, one has to admit, the film has no great success."
What genre is Background? [SEP] Background music  Background music (British English: piped music) is a mode of musical performance in which the music is not intended to be a primary focus of potential listeners, but its content, character, and volume level are deliberately chosen to affect behavioral and emotional responses in humans such as concentration, relaxation, distraction, and excitement. Listeners are uniquely subject to background music with no control over its volume and content. The range of responses created are of great variety, and even opposite, depending on numerous factors such as, setting, culture, audience, and even time of day.  Background music is commonly played where there is no audience at all, such as empty hallways and restrooms and fitting rooms. It is also used in artificial space, such as music played while on hold during a telephone call, and virtual space, as in the ambient sounds or thematic music in video games. It is typically played at low volumes from multiple small speakers distributing the music across broad public spaces. The widespread use of background music in offices, restaurants, and stores began with the founding of Muzak in the 1930s and was characterized by repetition and simple musical arrangements. Its use has grown worldwide and today incorporates the findings of psychological research relating to consumer behavior in retail environments, employee productivity, and workplace satisfaction.  Due to the growing variety of settings (from doctors offices to airports), many styles of music are utilized as background music. Because the aim of background music is passive listening, vocals, commercial interruptions, and complexity are typically avoided. In spite of the international distribution common to syndicated background music artists, it is often associated with artistic failure and a lack of musical talent in the entertainment industry. There are composers who write specifically for music syndication services such as Dynamic Media and Mood Media, successors of Muzak, and MTI Digital. Multiple studies have correlated the presence of background music with increased spending in retail establishments.
What genre is Background? [SEP] Genre  Genre () is any form or type of communication in any mode (written, spoken, digital, artistic, etc.) with socially-agreed-upon conventions developed over time. In popular usage, it normally describes a category of literature, music, or other forms of art or entertainment, whether written or spoken, audio or visual, based on some set of stylistic criteria, yet genres can be aesthetic, rhetorical, communicative, or functional. Genres form by conventions that change over time as cultures invent new genres and discontinue the use of old ones. Often, works fit into multiple genres by way of borrowing and recombining these conventions. Stand-alone texts, works, or pieces of communication may have individual styles, but genres are amalgams of these texts based on agreed-upon or socially inferred conventions. Some genres may have rigid, strictly adhered-to guidelines, while others may show great flexibility.  Genre began as an absolute classification system for ancient Greek literature, as set out in Aristotle's "Poetics". For Aristotle, poetry (odes, epics, etc.), prose, and performance each had specific design features that supported appropriate content of each genre. Speech patterns for comedy would not be appropriate for tragedy, for example, and even actors were restricted to their genre under the assumption that a type of person could tell one type of story best.  Genres proliferate and develop beyond Aristotle’s classifications in response to changes in audiences and creators. Genre has become a dynamic tool to help the public make sense out of unpredictability through artistic expression. Given that art is often a response to a social state, in that people write, paint, sing, dance, and otherwise produce art about what they know about, the use of genre as a tool must be able to adapt to changing meanings.  Musician Ezra LaFleur argues that discussion of genre should draw from Ludwig Wittgenstein's idea of family resemblance. Genres are helpful labels for communicating but do not necessarily have a single attribute that is the essence of the genre.
What genre is Background? [SEP] Pink Floyd  Pink Floyd are an English rock band formed in London in 1965. Gaining an early following as one of the first British psychedelic groups, they were distinguished by their extended compositions, sonic experimentation, philosophical lyrics and elaborate live shows. They became a leading band of the progressive rock genre, cited by some as the greatest progressive rock band of all time.  Pink Floyd were founded in 1965 by Syd Barrett (guitar, lead vocals), Nick Mason (drums), Roger Waters (bass guitar, vocals), and Richard Wright (keyboards, vocals). Under Barrett's leadership, they released two charting singles and the successful debut album "The Piper at the Gates of Dawn" (1967). Guitarist and vocalist David Gilmour joined in December 1967; Barrett left in April 1968 due to deteriorating mental health. Waters became the primary lyricist and thematic leader, devising the concepts behind the band's peak success with the albums "The Dark Side of the Moon" (1973), "Wish You Were Here" (1975), "Animals" (1977) and "The Wall" (1979). The musical film based on "The Wall", "Pink Floyd – The Wall" (1982), won two BAFTA Awards. Pink Floyd also composed several film scores.   Following personal tensions, Wright left Pink Floyd in 1979, followed by Waters in 1985. Gilmour and Mason continued as Pink Floyd, rejoined later by Wright. They produced two more albums—"A Momentary Lapse of Reason" (1987) and "The Division Bell" (1994)—and toured in support of both before entering a long hiatus. In 2005, all but Barrett reunited for a one-off performance at the global awareness event Live 8. Barrett died in 2006, and Wright in 2008. The last Pink Floyd studio album, "The Endless River" (2014), was based on unreleased material from the "Division Bell" recording sessions. In 2022, Gilmour and Mason reformed Pink Floyd to release the song "Hey, Hey, Rise Up!" in protest of the Russo-Ukrainian War.  By 2013, Pink Floyd had sold more than 250 million records worldwide, making them one of the best-selling music artists of all time. "The Dark Side of the Moon" and "The Wall" were inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame, and these albums and "Wish You Were Here" are among the best-selling albums of all time. Four Pink Floyd albums topped the US Billboard 200, and five topped the UK Album Chart. Pink Floyd's hit singles include "See Emily Play" (1967), "Money" (1973), "Another Brick in the Wall, Part 2" (1979), "Not Now John" (1983), "On the Turning Away" (1987) and "High Hopes" (1994). They were inducted into the US Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1996 and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2005. In 2008, Pink Floyd were awarded the Polar Music Prize in Sweden for their contribution to modern music.
What genre is Background? [SEP] Rage Against the Machine  Rage Against the Machine (often abbreviated as RATM or shortened to simply Rage) is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California. Formed in 1991, the group consists of vocalist Zack de la Rocha, bassist and backing vocalist Tim Commerford, guitarist Tom Morello, and drummer Brad Wilk. The band are known for their melding of heavy metal and rap music with punk rock and funk influences, and their revolutionary socialist political views. As of 2010, they have sold over 16 million records worldwide.<ref name="WordPress"/> The band was nominated for induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame in their first year of eligibility in 2017, then again in 2018, 2019, and 2021, though the bids failed.<ref name="RRHOF 2017"/><ref name="RRHOF 2018" /><ref name="RRHOF 2021" />  Rage Against the Machine released its self-titled debut album in 1992 to commercial and critical success, leading to a slot in the 1993 Lollapalooza festival; in 2003, the album was ranked number 368 on "Rolling Stone's" list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The band's next two albums, "Evil Empire" (1996) and "The Battle of Los Angeles" (1999), were also successful; both albums topped the "Billboard" 200 chart.<ref name="Billboard 1996" /><ref name="Billboard 1999" /> During their initial nine-year run, Rage Against the Machine became a popular and influential band,<ref name="Devenish"/> and had a large influence on the nu metal genre which came to prominence during the late 1990s and early 2000s. They were also ranked No. 33 on VH1's "100 Greatest Artists of Hard Rock".<ref name="ROTN" />  In 2000, Rage Against the Machine released the cover album "Renegades" and disbanded after growing creative differences led to De la Rocha's departure. De la Rocha started a low-profile solo career, while the rest of the band formed the rock supergroup Audioslave with Chris Cornell, the former frontman of Soundgarden; Audioslave recorded three albums before disbanding in 2007. The same year, Rage Against the Machine announced a reunion and performed together for the first time in seven years at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in April 2007. Within the next four years, minus a sabbatical in 2009, the band continued to perform at more live venues and festivals around the world before going on hiatus once again in 2011. In 2016, Morello, Commerford and Wilk formed a new band, Prophets of Rage, with B-Real, Chuck D, and DJ Lord; that band released one EP and one full-length studio album before disbanding in 2019.  After an eight-year hiatus, Rage Against the Machine announced in November 2019 that they were reuniting for a world tour, which was initially scheduled to start in 2020, but was ultimately postponed to 2021, and then to 2022, due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What genre is Background? [SEP] Beastie Boys  Beastie Boys were an American rap rock group from New York City, formed in 1978. The group was composed of Michael "Mike D" Diamond (vocals, drums), Adam "MCA" Yauch (vocals, bass), and Adam "Ad-Rock" Horovitz (vocals, guitar, programming). Beastie Boys were formed out of members of experimental hardcore punk band the Young Aborigines in 1978, with Diamond as vocalist, Jeremy Shatan on bass guitar, John Berry on guitar, and Kate Schellenbach on drums. When Shatan left in 1981, Yauch replaced him on bass and the band changed their name to Beastie Boys. Berry left shortly thereafter and was replaced by Horovitz.  After achieving local success with the 1983 comedy hip hop single "Cooky Puss", Beastie Boys made a full transition to hip hop, and Schellenbach left. They toured with Madonna in 1985 and a year later released their debut album, "Licensed to Ill" (1986), the first rap record to top the "Billboard" 200 chart. Their second album, "Paul's Boutique" (1989), composed almost entirely of samples, was a commercial failure, but later received critical acclaim. "Check Your Head" (1992) and "Ill Communication" (1994) found mainstream success, followed by "Hello Nasty" (1998), "To the 5 Boroughs" (2004), "The Mix-Up" (2007), and "Hot Sauce Committee Part Two" (2011).  Beastie Boys have sold 20 million records in the United States and had seven platinum-selling albums from 1986 to 2004. They are the biggest-selling rap group since "Billboard" began recording sales in 1991. In 2012, they became the third rap group to be inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In the same year, Yauch died of cancer and Beastie Boys disbanded. The remaining members have released several retrospective works, including a book, a documentary, and a career-spanning compilation album.
What genre is Node? [SEP]  The album received mostly positive reviews, but also mixed reviews from several critics. Distorted Sound scored the album 8 out of 10 and stated: "Node is a phenomenal display of Northlane's ability to restructure and rediscover, a solid album that is recommended for both prog and metalcore fans alike. Bridge has clearly melted into the boiling pot of talent that are Northlane, stepped up to the plate and proven that he has what it takes to join such a well established band." Exclaim! gave it 7 out of 10 and said: "It's a bold new direction for a group with youth on their side that, while potentially divisive, points
What genre is Node? [SEP]  a bright future." Alex Sievers from KillYourStereo gave the album 60 out of 100 and said: "For a lot of punters, Node is easily one of the most anticipated heavy releases of the year [...] yet I feel that Node has been a victim of that very same hype. While it hasn't quite crashed and burned, like say, Watch Dogs or like the new Star Wars movie will [...] it's definitely taken a fair few hits from such expectations. This album really is an awkward transitional stage for what Northlane could become musically and stylistically, and who knows, that may very well be amazing come the next record. But
What genre is Node? [SEP]  Node is the third studio album by Australian metalcore band Northlane. It was released on 24 July 2015 through UNFD and Rise. It was produced by Will Putney and recorded at Graphic Nature Audio in Belleville, New Jersey. This is the first album to feature vocalist Marcus Bridge after the departure of Adrian Fitipaldes in 2014. It also marks the group's first slight departure from their heavier metalcore roots and towards a more alternative and experimental sound. In 2016, a deluxe edition of Node was released, which contains instrumental versions of all songs, two new songs, a version of the song "Aspire" featuring Marcus' vocals, and the single version of the song "Rot".
What genre is Node? [SEP]  The band released two promotional singles, "Ra" and "Leech" respectively. "Ra" was handed out to fans as a free-download gift for supporting the band. "Leech" was released as a promotional single after the band began an interactive puzzle with clips of the song, combining all of the pieces together will create the song in its full length. A previous November 2014 single, "Rot", was re-recorded for the release of Node.
What genre is Node? [SEP]  this current stage in their musical metamorphosis, there’s an inconsistent level of quality and a lacking in real sonic impact. Which is a just goddamn shame." Dom Lawson of Louder Sound gave the album 3.5 out 5, saying: "Node is a strong step in the right direction and a testament to this band's fighting spirit." Wall of Sound rated the album 8.5 out of 10 and said: "All in all, the album is a great representation of how far this band from Sydney has come in the short amount of time they've been together and its a true indication of why the international fans are loving them too."
What genre is Node? [SEP] Node (album)  Node is the third studio album by Australian heavy metal band Northlane. It was released on 24 July 2015 through UNFD and Rise. It was produced by Will Putney and recorded at Graphic Nature Audio in Belleville, New Jersey. This is the first album to feature vocalist Marcus Bridge after the departure of Adrian Fitipaldes in 2014. It also marks the group's first slight departure from their heavier metalcore roots and towards a more alternative and experimental sound.  In 2016, a deluxe edition of "Node" was released, which contains instrumental versions of all songs, two new songs, a version of the song "Aspire" featuring Marcus' vocals, and the single version of the song "Rot".
What genre is Node? [SEP] Node (band)  Node is an Italian death metal band formed in Milan in 1994 and currently signed to Punishment 18 Records. Their last (sixth) full-length studio album, "Cowards Empire" was released in 2016.
What genre is Node? [SEP] Nodes of Ranvier (band)  Nodes of Ranvier is a metalcore band from Sioux Falls, South Dakota, US, that was signed to Victory Records. The band is described as "one of Sioux Falls' most successful and popular acts ever." They have played with bands such as Bleeding Through, Every Time I Die, Bury Your Dead, Caliban, Comeback Kid, Norma Jean, Misery Signals, Extol and more across the US. The band's name refers to the myelin sheath gaps which are also called Nodes of Ranvier.
What genre is Node? [SEP] Hypertext fiction  Hypertext fiction is a genre of electronic literature, characterized by the use of hypertext links that provide a new context for non-linearity in literature and reader interaction. The reader typically chooses links to move from one node of text to the next, and in this fashion arranges a story from a deeper pool of potential stories. Its spirit can also be seen in interactive fiction.  The term can also be used to describe traditionally-published books in which a nonlinear narrative and interactive narrative is achieved through internal references. James Joyce's "Ulysses" (1922), Enrique Jardiel Poncela's "La Tournée de Dios" (1932), Jorge Luis Borges' "The Garden of Forking Paths" (1941), Vladimir Nabokov's "Pale Fire" (1962), Julio Cortázar's "Rayuela" (1963; translated as "Hopscotch"), and Italo Calvino's "The Castle of Crossed Destinies" (1973) are early examples predating the word "hypertext", while a common pop-culture example is the "Choose Your Own Adventure" series in young adult fiction and other similar gamebooks.
What genre is Node? [SEP] Northlane  Northlane are an Australian heavy metal band from Sydney, formed in 2009. The band comprises guitarists Jon Deiley and Josh Smith, drummer Nic Pettersen and vocalist Marcus Bridge. Northlane have released six studio albums: "Discoveries" (11 November 2011); "Singularity" (22 March 2013), which reached No. 3 on the ARIA Albums Chart; "Node" (24 July 2015), a number-one album; "Mesmer" (24 March 2017), "Alien" (2 August 2019) and "Obsidian" (22 April 2022). At the ARIA Music Awards of 2015 the group won the Best Hard Rock or Heavy Metal Album category for their album "Node". At the ARIA Music Awards of 2017, the band won again with "Mesmer". The band won the Best Hard Rock or Heavy Metal Album category for the third time at the ARIA Music Awards of 2019 for their 2019 album "Alien".
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  In The Deep is an album by Norwegian singer-songwriter Maria Solheim released October 12, 2012 by Universal Music Group.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  The reviewer Julia Pettersen of the Norwegian newspaper Dagbladet, awarded the album dice 4.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Produced by Nick Terry
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  On this fifth solo album release, Solheim show her considerable abilities. In the studio sessions she was joined by Henry Olsen (Primal Scream, Nico, The Velvet Underground, John Cale and others), Emil Nikolaisen (Serena Maneesh), among other stellar musicians, resulting in a record with songs spanning from quiet, simple guitar-based tunes, through rock, and all the way to pop. This is an album you even can dance to.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP]  In Deep is the fourth studio album by Argent, originally released by Epic Records in October 1973. It features the original full-length recording of "God Gave Rock and Roll to You", which reached No. 18 in the UK charts (U.S. No. 114) when released in edited form as a single later the same year. It was later remade by Kiss as "God Gave Rock 'n' Roll to You II" for the film Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey in 1991.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Deep house  Deep house is a subgenre of house music that originated in the 1980s, initially fusing elements of Chicago house with the lush chords of 1980s jazz-funk and touches of soul music. Its origins are attributed to the early recordings of Larry Heard (aka Mr. Fingers), including his influential track "Can You Feel It".
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Deep Forest  Deep Forest is a French musical group originally consisting of two French musicians, Michel Sanchez and Éric Mouquet. They compose a style of world music, sometimes called ethnic electronica, mixing ethnic with electronic sounds and dance beats or chillout beats. Their sound has been described as an "ethno-introspective ambient world music". They were nominated for a Grammy Award in 1994 for Best World Music Album, and in 1995 they won the Award for the album "Boheme". The group also became World Music Awards Winner – French group with the highest 1995 world sales. Their albums have sold over 10 million copies. Sanchez started his own career as a singer in 2005, while Mouquet continued working under the band's original name.<ref name="Sanchesquit"/>
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] How Deep Is Your Love (Bee Gees song)  "How Deep Is Your Love" is a pop ballad written and recorded by the Bee Gees in 1977 and released as a single in September of that year. It was ultimately used as part of the soundtrack to the film "Saturday Night Fever". It was a number-three hit in the United Kingdom and Australia. In the United States, it topped the "Billboard" Hot 100 on 24 December 1977 and stayed in the Top 10 for 17 weeks. It spent six weeks atop the US adult contemporary chart. It is listed at No. 27 on "Billboard" All Time Top 100. Alongside "Stayin' Alive" and "Night Fever", it is one of the group's three tracks on the list. The song was covered by Take That for their 1996 "Greatest Hits" album, reaching No. 1 on the UK Singles Chart for three weeks.  "How Deep Is Your Love" ranked number 375 on "Rolling Stone" list of the 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. In a British TV special shown in December 2011, it was voted The Nation's Favourite Bee Gees Song by ITV viewers. During the Bee Gees' 2001 "Billboard" magazine interview, Barry said that this was his favourite Bee Gees song.
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Styles of house music
What genre is In Deep? [SEP] Neck Deep  Neck Deep are a Welsh pop punk band from Wrexham, Wales formed in 2012. Founded after vocalist Ben Barlow met former lead guitarist Lloyd Roberts, the pair posted a song ("What Did You Expect?") online under the name Neck Deep. The song soon gained attention online, resulting in the addition of rhythm guitarist Matt West, drummer Dani Washington/Abasi, and bassist Fil Thorpe-Evans. They released a pair of EPs, "Rain in July" (2012) and "A History of Bad Decisions" (2013), both recorded by Barlow's older brother, before signing with Hopeless in August 2013.  Following the release of their debut album "Wishful Thinking" in January 2014, the band became a full-time project, with the band members leaving their jobs and/or dropping out of university courses. Shortly after the release of their second album "Life's Not out to Get You" in August 2015, Roberts left the band due to allegations of sexual misconduct (which he was subsequently found to have no case to answer), and Sam Bowden (formerly of Climates and Blood Youth) joined in his place. The group's third album "The Peace and the Panic" was released August 2017, and debuted at #4 on the US "Billboard" 200. In September 2018, Thorpe-Evans left the band to pursue a solo career as a producer. In 2019, the band embarked in a summer tour with Blink-182 as the opening act. By February 2020, the band added longtime collaborator and bassist Seb Barlow as an official member, plus later that month revealed an app with all sorts of multimedia regarding the announcement of their fourth album, titled "All Distortions Are Intentional", released 24 July.
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP]  If I Were You was written and published in 1940, and contains the pulp fiction style fantasy, danger, and the supernatural. If I Were You is from the Golden Age series which Galaxy Press started re-publishing in 2008. The book has been re-released in paperback, with French flaps, glossaries, and author bio. It is also available as a full-cast audiobook, with music and sound effects, featuring Nancy Cartwright. Also starring Lynsey Bartilson, R.F. Daley, Bob Caso, Jim Meskimen, Jennifer Darling, John Mariano, Phil Proctor, and Tait Ruppert.
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP] "Books" typically features Canadian literature aimed at youth/teen and YA audiences. ; "Music" reviews major and independent album releases for each quarter, regardless of genre. There is also typically at least one interview or feature, often of the artist and/or band of one of the new music releases being reviewed or from a past review. "Games" reviews current video game releases. ; "Movies" reviews new theatrical releases. This section is edited by entertainment editor Chelsey Cosh. There are several sections of reviews, rated in the style of European magazines by assessing in terms of number of stars (with 5 stars for the best review). The sections are: There are also several review pages online. This section is managed and contributed to by entertainment editor Chelsey Cosh. The online review sections are:
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP]  Maybe Someday, published in March 2014, was the first novel of a small series about a guy and a girl who write music together and fall in love. Musician Griffin Peterson created a soundtrack to accompany the novel. Readers could click links in the e-book or scan a QR code in the paperback that take them to a website where they could listen to the music. Never ever, a collaboration with Tarryn Fisher, was originally split into three parts and sold as three separate books, then later republished as one complete book. It Ends with Us, based on the relationship between her mother and father, was published in 2016. Hoover described it in 2016 as "the hardest book I've ever written."
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP]  His debut novel, If This Is Home , appeared in July 2012. The novel is set in Cheshire and Las Vegas.
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP]  Russo's debut young adult novel, If I Was Your Girl, published in 2016 by Flatiron Books. If I Was Your Girl is about a trans girl going to a new school and falling in love with a boy. If I Was Your Girl won the Stonewall Book Award for the Young Adult category in 2017 and the Walter Dean Myers Award for Outstanding Children's Literature in 2017. It also received a starred review from Kirkus Reviews, Publishers Weekly, and Booklist. Her next young adult novel, Birthday, was published by Flatiron Books in 2019 and is a follow-up to her award-winning debut If I Was Your Girl, following two teenagers whose lives intersect starting from both their 13th birthdays. Russo also contributed several short stories and essays to anthologies published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, Vintage, and Algonquin. The different characters of her stories are based on people she met during her life or from her own personal experience. In an interview, she said that she has been inspired by a lot of comics, manga as well as fictions
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP]
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP] If We Ever Meet Again  "If We Ever Meet Again" is a song by American producer Timbaland. It was released on December 1, 2009, as the fourth single from his third studio album "Shock Value II" (2009). The song features singer Katy Perry and served as the album's second worldwide single. Timbaland's brother Sebastian also has uncredited vocals at the end of the song. "If We Ever Meet Again" reached number one in the Czech Republic and New Zealand while peaking within the top 10 in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. The song was later included on the deluxe edition of Perry's third studio album "Teenage Dream".
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP] If I Ever Fall in Love Again  "If I Ever Fall in Love Again" is a song written by Steve Dorff and Gloria Sklerov, and performed by Anne Murray and Kenny Rogers as a duet. The song reached number six on the Canadian Adult Contemporary chart and number nine on the Canadian Country chart in. It was released in September 1989 as the first single from Murray's compilation album "Greatest Hits Volume II" and Roger's studio album "Something Inside So Strong". The song was produced by Jim Ed Norman and Steve Dorff. In the Philippines, it became a number one hit.
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP] If I Ever Fall in Love  "If I Ever Fall in Love" is the debut single by American R&B-soul quartet Shai, released in 1992 from their debut album of the same name. It reached number two on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 in 1992 and peaked at number one on the "Billboard" R&B chart. It spent eight weeks at number two on the Hot 100, which at the time was the second-most number of weeks that a song held the position without topping the chart, behind Foreigner's "Waiting for a Girl Like You". The song was also their only top-40 hit in the UK, peaking at number 36. The track "Intro" by Mustard and 1TakeJay, from Mustard's "Perfect Ten" album, prominently uses samples from "If I Ever Fall In Love".
What genre is If I Ever? [SEP] Never Have I Ever (TV series)  Never Have I Ever is an American romance comedy-drama television series starring Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, created by Mindy Kaling and Lang Fisher. Though it takes place in the San Fernando Valley, the show has been reported to be loosely based on Kaling's childhood experiences in the Boston area, while Kaling herself has said it is based "in the spirit of my childhood". The series received generally favorable reviews.  The series has been described as a watershed moment for South Asian representation in Hollywood and has been praised for breaking Asian stereotypes. On July 1, 2020, Netflix renewed the series for a second season, which premiered on July 15, 2021. Netflix renewed the series for a third season on August 19, 2021, which was released on August 12, 2022, and consists of 10 episodes, and a fourth and final season set to premiere in 2023.
What genre is More Love? [SEP]  Publishers Weekly called the novel "predictably sentimental."
What genre is More Love? [SEP]  No Greater Love is a novel by Danielle Steel. It tells a fictional story based on the true event of the sinking of the RMS Titanic. It is Steel's 28th novel.
What genre is More Love? [SEP]  Love You More is a short drama directed by Sam Taylor-Wood, written by Patrick Marber and produced by Anthony Minghella, which was screened in Main Competition for the Palme d'Or at the 2008 Cannes Film Festival. The film includes two songs by Buzzcocks and features a cameo appearance by the band's lead singer Pete Shelley as a customer at a record store.
What genre is More Love? [SEP]  No Greater Love is a 2010 Christian film directed by Brad J. Silverman. Lionsgate announced it acquired the North American home entertainment distribution rights to the film. Shot mostly on location in Lancaster, California, the film stars Anthony Tyler Quinn, Danielle Bisutti and Jay Underwood. It was released to DVD on January 19, 2010, and featured at the Projecting Hope Film Festival. Thomas Nelson Publishing has released a book titled, No Greater Love: A 90-day Devotional to Strengthen Your Marriage.
What genre is More Love? [SEP]  More is an English-language drama-romance film written and directed by Barbet Schroeder. His theatrical feature film directorial debut, it was released in 1969. Starring Mimsy Farmer and Klaus Grünberg, it deals with heroin addiction as drug fascination on the island of Ibiza, Spain. Made in the political fallout of the 1960s counterculture, the film features drug use, "free love", and other references to contemporary European youth culture. The film screenplay was written by Paul Gégauff and Barbet Schroeder with the original story by Schroeder. Art directed by Fran Lewis and Nestor Almendros. It features soundtracks written and performed by the English rock band Pink Floyd, released as the album More. Schroeder's inspiration
What genre is More Love? [SEP] Caribbean Queen (No More Love on the Run)  "Caribbean Queen (No More Love on the Run)" is a 1984 song by Trinidadian-British singer Billy Ocean. Co-written and produced by Keith Diamond, it climbed to number one on both the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and the "Billboard" Black Singles chart,<ref name="awards"/> and number six in the UK Singles Chart.<ref name="UK"/> The song won Ocean the 1985 Grammy Award for Best Male R&B Vocal Performance, making him the first British artist to win in that category.  The saxophone solo is played by Vernon Jeffrey Smith.
What genre is More Love? [SEP] More Love (Smokey Robinson and the Miracles song)  "More Love" is a 1967 hit single recorded by the American soul group The Miracles for Motown Records' Tamla label. The single, included on the group's 1967 album "Make It Happen", later reissued in 1970 as "The Tears of a Clown". Kim Carnes's 1980 cover of the song reached the Top 10 of "Billboard"s Adult Contemporary and Hot 100 charts.
What genre is More Love? [SEP] More Life  More Life is a commercial mixtape by Canadian rapper and singer Drake. Described and marketed as a playlist, some publications have referred to it as a mixtape. It was released on March 18, 2017, through Republic Records and distributed by Cash Money Records and Young Money Entertainment. Production of "More Life" was handled by a variety of record producers, including 40, Frank Dukes, Boi-1da, Murda Beatz, T-Minus, Nineteen85, and Kanye West, among others. An ensemble of guest vocalists also appear, including West, Young Thug, Giggs, Skepta, Quavo, Travis Scott, 2 Chainz, Jorja Smith, Sampha, and PartyNextDoor.  The songs on the mixtape feature a broad range of genres, including R&B, dancehall, grime, trap and Afrobeats. Supported by the singles "Fake Love", "Passionfruit", "Free Smoke", "Portland", and "Glow", "More Life" received generally positive reviews and debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200, earning 505,000 album-equivalent units. It was Drake's seventh consecutive number one album, and also broke several streaming records. Though a mixtape, it was named one of the best albums of 2017 by several publications. By the end of 2017, the mixtape had accumulated over two million album-equivalent units in the US.
What genre is More Love? [SEP] A Little More Love (Vince Gill song)  "A Little More Love" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Vince Gill. It was released in March 1997 as the fourth single from the album "High Lonesome Sound". The song reached number 2 on the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart.
What genre is More Love? [SEP] A Little More Love (Lisa Stansfield song)  "A Little More Love" is a song recorded by British singer Lisa Stansfield for her 1991 album, "Real Love". It was written by Stansfield, Ian Devaney and Andy Morris, and produced by Devaney and Morris.  On 30 June 1992, it was released as a single in the United States and peaked at number thirty on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs. The live music video recorded at the Wembley Stadium was also released. "Set Your Loving Free" which was included on the B-side of the single and remixed by Masters at Work, reached number twenty on the Hot Dance Club Songs.
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP] Mr. Mergenthwirker's Lobblies and Other Fantastic Tales (Coward-McCann, 1946) ; The Thirty-First of February (Gnome Press, 1949) ; The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman (Doubleday, 1950) ; No Time Like the Future (Avon, 1954) ; Nightmares and Daydreams (Arkham House, 1968) ; The Far Side of Nowhere (Arkham House, 2002) ; Other Worlds Than Ours (Arkham House, 2005)
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]   Nelson Slade Bond (November 23, 1908 – November 4, 2006) was an American author who wrote extensively for books, magazines, radio, television and the stage. The 1998 recipient of the Nebula Author Emeritus award for lifetime achievement, Bond was a pioneer in early science fiction and fantasy. His published fiction is mainly short stories, most of which appeared in pulp magazines in the 1930s and 1940s. Many were published in Blue Book magazine. He is noted for his "Lancelot Biggs" series of stories and for his "Meg the Priestess" tales, which introduced one of the first powerful female characters in science fiction.
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]  Space (1926) and Crashing Suns (Weird Tales, August–September 1928). Similar stories by other writers followed through 1929 and 1930. By 1931, the space opera was well established as a major subgenre of science fiction. However, the author cited most often as the true father of the genre is E. E. "Doc" Smith. His first published work, The Skylark of Space (Amazing Stories, August–October 1928), written in collaboration with Lee Hawkins Garby, is often called the first great space opera. It merges the traditional tale of a scientist inventing a space-drive with planetary romance in the style of Edgar Rice
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]  Spaceman of Bohemia is a sci-fi novel written by Jaroslav Kalfař in 2017. There are two parts of the story, and it is written from the point of view of Jakub Procházka, the first independent Czech Republic's astronaut. He is sent on a solo mission in space to a cloud of "intergalactic dust" near the planet Venus that no other country is willing to risk sending their citizens to inspect. He leaves behind his wife for this 8-month mission. While alone, he meets a giant arachnid named Hanuš and becomes friends with him. Jakub wants to escape his past so desperately that he is willing to travel hundreds of millions of miles to be free from it.
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]  "A Guest in the House", produced on CBS-TV in 1954. In 1946, Arkham House published Long's first collection of supernatural fiction, The Hounds of Tindalos, which collected 21 of his best tales from the previous twenty years of magazine publication. It featured works which had appeared in such pulps as Weird Tales, Astounding Stories, Super Science Stories, Unknown, Thrilling Wonder Stories, Dynamic Science Fiction, Startling Stories, and others. In "The Man from Time", a time-traveller from the future has an encounter with writer F. Scott Fitzgerald. His later science fiction works include the story collection John Carstairs, Space Detective (1949) about a 'botanical detective', and the novels Space Station 1 (1957), Mars is My Destination (1962) and It Was the Day of the Robot (1963).
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP] The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman  The Remarkable Adventures of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman (sometimes referred to as "Lancelot Biggs: Spaceman") is a collection of humorous science fiction stories by Nelson Bond, published by Doubleday Books in 1950. It comprises eleven of the fourteen stories in Bond's "Lancelot Biggs" series. Sometimes described as a novel, it presents the stories in a sequence of twenty-seven numbered chapters. The collection was reissued in trade paperback by Wildside Press many years later; no mass market paperback edition was issued.
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP] Nelson S. Bond  Nelson Slade Bond (November 23, 1908 – November 4, 2006) was an American writer. His works included books, magazine articles, and scripts used in radio, for television and on the stage.  The 1998 recipient of the Nebula Author Emeritus award for lifetime achievement, Bond was a pioneer in early science fiction and fantasy. His published fiction is mainly short stories, most of which appeared in pulp magazines in the 1930s and 1940s. Many were published in "Blue Book" magazine. He is noted for his "Lancelot Biggs" series of stories and for his "Meg the Priestess" tales, which introduced one of the first powerful female characters in science fiction.
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP]
What genre is The Remarkable Exploits of Lancelot Biggs, Spaceman? [SEP] Turner Prize for modern art. The artist in question, Glenn Brown, was accused of plagiarism. Double Star Double Star is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, first serialized in "Astounding Science Fiction" (February, March, April 1956) and published in hardcover the same year. It received the 1956 Hugo Award for Best Novel (his first). The story, which is told in the first person, centers on down-and-out actor Lawrence Smith (stage name Lorenzo Smythe, also known as "The Great Lorenzo"). A brilliant actor and mimic, he is down to his last coin when a spaceman hires him
What genre is My Husband? [SEP]  The Husband is a novel by the best-selling author Dean Koontz, released in 2006. Focus Features, in conjunction with Random House Films, has announced that a film adaptation has been greenlit.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP]  Syrtash contributed to a number of titles published by Hundreds of Heads Books and served as the Special Editor of How to Survive the Real World (2006) and How to Survive Your In-Laws. She is the author of He's Just Not Your Type (And That's a Good Thing) (Rodale Books, 2010) and Cheat On Your Husband (With Your Husband) (Rodale Books, 2011). She is the co-author of It's Okay to Sleep with Him on the First Date (Harlequin Non-Fiction, July 2013).
What genre is My Husband? [SEP]  Written in a vernacular first-person narrative, the title character (who is eventually revealed to be a wolf) describes her beloved spouse and their idyllic family life in the past tense, except during the new moon, when he mysteriously disappeared. She then relates the night she witnessed his metamorphosis into a human and screamed in horror, resulting in her family and neighbors chasing and killing him.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP]  My Brother's Husband was serialized in Futabasha's seinen manga magazine Monthly Action from November 2014 to May 2017, and later published as four tankōbon. An English-language translation by Anne Ishii was released as two omnibus editions, published by Pantheon Books in North America and Blackfriars in the United Kingdom. A French-language translation was licensed in France by Delcourt, under its Akata label.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP]  My Husband’s Wife (Egyptian Arabic: امرأة زوجي translit: Imra’at Zawgi aliases: My Husband’s Woman) is a 1970 Egyptian drama directed by Mahmoud Zulfikar. The film stars Salah Zulfikar, Nelly and Naglaa Fathi.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP] The Husband's Secret  The Husband's Secret is a novel by Liane Moriarty that was first published on 30 July 2013. The novel tells the story of three women, whose lives unexpectedly interconnect after one of them discovers a devastating secret.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP] I Can't Understand What My Husband Is Saying
What genre is My Husband? [SEP] My Husband's Not Gay  My Husband's Not Gay is a television documentary aired by TLC. The show follows four Mormon couples in Salt Lake City, Utah whose husbands are attracted to men. The couples explain that while the men feel attraction to other men, which they refer to as Same Sex Attraction (SSA), they do not act on it and are therefore not homosexuals.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP] The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo  The Seven Husbands of Evelyn Hugo is a historical fiction novel by American author Taylor Jenkins Reid and published by Atria Books in 2017. The novel tells the story of the fictional Old Hollywood star Evelyn Hugo, who at age 79 gives a final interview to an unknown journalist, Monique Grant. The novel was nominated for a Goodreads Choice Award for Best Historical Fiction of 2017.
What genre is My Husband? [SEP] The Husband  The Husband is a novel by the best-selling author Dean Koontz, released in 2006. Focus Features, in conjunction with Random House Films, has announced that a film adaptation has been greenlit.
What genre is West? [SEP]  West is the sixth album by Ego Likeness and is the second in their Compass EP series. It was self-released in 2008 and was available for purchase only at tour locations or through their website. Only 300 copies were pressed and were individually numbered and autographed. According to the official website, the album is sold out but the songs are to be rereleased at a later date.
What genre is West? [SEP]  The West received positive reviews from music critics. John Bush, reviewing the album for AllMusic, described it as "seriously done but really playful, groovy even while it's slightly academic sounding, and experimental but undeniably entertaining." Pitchfork's Mark Richardson wrote in 2003 that The West was then considered by many fans to be the duo's masterpiece. He also writes: "The West contains guitar and other stringed instruments that, in places, evoke the Sergio Leone "big sky" of the Western landscape, but it also has a fair amount of abstract electronic noise without any particular association."
What genre is West? [SEP]  The West is a 1999 electronic music album by Matmos.
What genre is West? [SEP]  Tower is a series of seven books that meshes themes of Westerns, high fantasy, science fiction, and horror. The protagonist Roland Deschain is a gunslinger whose image and personality are largely inspired by the Man with No Name from Sergio Leone's films. In addition, the superhero fantasy genre has been described as having been derived from the cowboy hero, only powered up to omnipotence in a primarily urban setting. The Western genre has been parodied on a number of occasions, famous examples being Support Your Local Sheriff!, Cat Ballou, Mel Brooks's Blazing Saddles, and Rustler's Rhapsody. George Lucas's Star Wars films use many elements of a Western, and Lucas has said
What genre is West? [SEP]  The album's music blends West's primary soulful hip hop production with Brion's elaborate chamber pop orchestration, and experimentally delves into a wide array of different genres, including jazz, blues, rock, R&B, spoken word, funk, turntablism, western classical, and psychedelic soul. With the presence of Brion, who conducts a twenty-piece orchestra and plays instruments individually selected by West, the album is largely orchestral in nature, brandishing a euphony of string arrangements, piano chords, brass flecks, and horn riffs among other symphonic instrumentation. They also incorporated a myriad of foreign and vintage instruments not typical in popular music, let alone hip hop, such as a celesta,
What genre is West? [SEP] Western (genre)  The Western is a genre set in the American frontier and commonly associated with folk tales of the Western United States, particularly the Southwestern United States, as well as Northern Mexico and Western Canada. It is commonly referred to as the "Old West" or the "Wild West" and depicted in Western media as a hostile, sparsely populated frontier in a state of near-total lawlessness patrolled by outlaws, sheriffs, and numerous other stock "gunslinger" characters. Western narratives often concern the gradual attempts to tame the crime-ridden American West using wider themes of justice, freedom, rugged individualism, Manifest Destiny, and the national history and identity of the United States.
What genre is West? [SEP]
What genre is West? [SEP] List of Western subgenres  The Western is a genre set in the American frontier and commonly associated with folk tales of the Western United States, particularly the Southwestern United States, as well as Northern Mexico and Western Canada. It is commonly referred to as the "Old West" or the "Wild West" and depicted in Western media as a hostile, sparsely populated frontier in a state of near-total lawlessness patrolled by outlaws, sheriffs, and numerous other stock "gunslinger" characters. Western narratives often concern the gradual attempts to tame the crime-ridden American West using wider themes of justice, freedom, rugged individualism, Manifest Destiny, and the national history and identity of the United States.  Within the larger scope of the Western genre, there are several recognized subgenres. Some subgenres, such as spaghetti Westerns, maintain standard Western settings and plots, while others take the Western theme and archetypes into different supergenres, such as Neo-Westerns or Space Westerns.
What genre is West? [SEP] Western music (North America)  Western music is a form of country music composed by and about the people who settled and worked throughout the Western United States and Western Canada. Western music celebrates the lifestyle of the cowboy on the open ranges, Rocky Mountains, and prairies of Western North America. Directly related musically to old English, Irish, Scottish, and folk ballads, also the Mexican folk music of Northern Mexico and Southwestern United States influenced the development of this genre, particularly corrido, ranchera, New Mexico and Tejano. Western music shares similar roots with Appalachian music (also called "country" or "hillbilly music"), which developed around the same time throughout Appalachia and the Appalachian Mountains. The music industry of the mid-20th century grouped the two genres together under the banner of "country and western music", later amalgamated into the modern name, "country music".
What genre is West? [SEP] Country music  Country (also called country and western) is a genre of popular music originating in the Southern and Southwestern United States. First produced in the 1920s, the genre primarily focuses on working class Americans and blue-collar American life.  Country music is known for its ballads and dance tunes (commonly known as "honky-tonk music") with simple form, folk lyrics, and harmonies accompanied by string instruments such as electric and acoustic guitars, steel guitars (such as pedal steels and dobros), banjos, fiddles, and harmonicas. Though it is primarily rooted in various forms of American folk music, such as old-time music and Appalachian music, many other traditions, including African-American, Mexican, Irish, and Hawaiian music, have also had a formative influence on the genre. Blues modes have been used extensively throughout its recorded history.  The term "country music" gained popularity in the 1940s in preference to "hillbilly music"; it came to encompass Western music, which evolved parallel to hillbilly music from similar roots, in the mid-20th century. Contemporary styles of Western music include Texas country, Red Dirt, and Spanish-language Tejano and New Mexico music. In 2009, in the United States, country music was the most listened to rush hour radio genre during the evening commute, and second most popular in the morning commute.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]  Does It Look Like I'm Here? contains the same new age, krautrock and kosmische styles that were a part of their previous albums. However, in the words of journalist Derek Miller, it is much more "sharp", concise and pop music-influenced than their previous works. In categorising the album's overall style, critic Rick Anderson of Allmusic labeled it a "slightly uneasy borderland between ambient music and avant-garde experimentation." He compared the album's soundscape to that of 1970s electronic pop and synthesized classical music, consisting of slightly cheesy-sounding keyboard arpeggiations," "waveform generators," and "sweet-and-sour analog synth sounds." He called some of the record's material, including "Candy Shoppe," a more enthusiastic
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]  The band are often filed under shoegazer and noise-pop music. The group's influences and inspiration range from the Beatles, Beach Boys, The Kinks, Velvet Underground and Love, through to more recent artists You Am I, Dinosaur Jr, Sebadoh, Spacemen3, Stereolab, Bailter Space, Flying Saucer Attack, Sonic Youth, The Cure, My Bloody Valentine and the Jesus and Mary Chain. The members' teenage/formative years share a collective love of punk & Death metal - which occasionally resurfaces, some might say at odds with the delicate melodic nature of the band's current output. Live shows are generally loud, densely layered and orchestrated guitar assaults.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]  Sanctus Real's main genre is typically labeled as Christian rock and alternative CCM. Their first three independent albums were described by Allmusic as power pop. Say It Loud was characterized by increased guitars and a powerful modern rock style. Their second release, Fight the Tide, was described as "melodic power rock" with similarities to Foo Fighters, Jimmy Eat World, Switchfoot, U2, and PFR. The band's music on The Face of Love blended the styles from their previous two albums, evolving into less of a heavier rock sound. With We Need Each Other, lead singer Matt Hammitt noted that he "just pushed the limits of what I can do vocally" during some songs, "whether it be on a soft, kind of rustic sounding vocal or whether it be this overdriven, rock high-range kind of vocal."
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]  Sounds of the Animal Kingdom is a studio album by grindcore band Brutal Truth. This album features a more varied style than previous albums, displaying the band's typical grindcore and death metal sound fused with elements of doom metal, stoner rock, crust punk, experimental rock, and elements of other genres. The album's closing track "Prey" is actually a 2-second snippet from "Average People" which repeats for 22 minutes, gradually becoming louder. On the vinyl release of the album, the song (instead of being stretched out to 22 minutes) is contained within a locked groove; which as a result makes the 2-second “song” loop infinitely until the listener lifts the record player’s needle. A remastered version that includes the 1996 mini-album Kill Trend Suicide was released in 2006. It is Brutal Truth's last album to feature Brent McCarthy.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]  The Sounds are a Swedish indie rock band. Formed in Helsingborg in 1998, the group's musical style has been compared to new wave acts such as Blondie, The Cars, the Epoxies and Missing Persons. Their debut album, Living in America, was released in 2002, with the follow-up Dying to Say This to You on March 21, 2006. Their third album, Crossing the Rubicon, was released on June 2, 2009, and their fourth, Something to Die For, was released on March 29, 2011. Their fifth album, Weekend, was released on October 29, 2013. On June 16, 2017, the band released a four-track EP, The Tales That We Tell.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP] Sounds Like Chicken  Sounds Like Chicken was a band from Melbourne, Australia, which formed in 1999 and disbanded in 2007. They were one of Australia's most well-known ska bands and one of the most popular Christian bands in the country. They were signed to Boomtown Records.  Sounds Like Chicken's musical style included a blend of ska, hardcore, reggae and rock. The band placed a high emphasis on touring and were known for their "high energy" live performances.  Sounds Like Chicken shared stages and toured with bands including Reel Big Fish, Mad Caddies, Crowned King, Hilltop Hoods, Kisschasy, Area-7, Gyroscope, Bodyjar, 28 Days, Killing Heidi, The O.C. Supertones, and Antiskeptic.  Sounds like Chicken also had rotation on the radio station Triple J, mainly with their double A-side single "Take a Bullet to the Grave"/"El Chupanebre" and their other single "Global Domination".  After their breakup, SLC released all their previous recordings under Creative Commons (by-nc-sa), for free online distribution.  The band reformed for a once-off show on 11 May 2014 as a benefit for independent record store Fist2face.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP] Sounds Like Violence  Sounds Like Violence are a four-piece emo/indie rock group from Ängelholm, Sweden. They are currently signed to Deep Elm Records (within the United States) and Burning Heart Records (in the rest of the world). Their debut album, With Blood On My Hands, was released on 12th Feb, 2007 to some critical acclaim. They previously released an EP, titled The Pistol, in 2004 and contributed songs to Deep Elm compilations including "Emo Diaries No. 10" and a "Split" EP.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP] List of electronic music genres  This is a list of electronic music genres, consisting of genres of electronic music, primarily created with electronic musical instruments or electronic music technology. A distinction has been made between sound produced using electromechanical means and that produced using electronic technology. Examples of electromechanical sound producing devices include the telharmonium, Hammond organ, electric piano, and the electric guitar. Purely electronic sound production can be achieved using devices such as the theremin, sound synthesizer, and computer. Genre, however, is not always dependent on instrumentation.  In its early development, electronic music was associated almost exclusively with Western art music, but from the late 1960s, the availability of affordable music technology—particularly of synthesizers—meant that music produced using electronic means became increasingly common in the popular domains of rock and pop music and classical music, resulting in major electronically based subgenres. After the definition of MIDI in 1982 and the development of digital audio, the creation of purely electronic sounds and their manipulation became much simpler. As a result, synthesizers came to dominate the pop music of the early 1980s. In the late 1980s, electronic dance music (EDM) records made using only electronic instruments became increasingly popular, resulting in a proliferation of electronic genres, subgenres, and scenes. In the new millennium, as computer technology became even more accessible and music software advanced, interacting with music production technology made it possible to create music that has some similarities and some differences to traditional musical performance practices, leading to further developments and rapidly evolving subgenres.
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP]
What genre is It Sounds Like? [SEP] Heavy metal genres  A number of heavy metal genres have developed since the emergence of heavy metal (often shortened to "metal") during the late 1960s and early 1970s. At times, heavy metal genres may overlap or are difficult to distinguish, but they can be identified by a number of traits. They may differ in terms of instrumentation, tempo, song structure, vocal style, lyrics, guitar playing style, drumming style, and so on.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP]  The Other Man is a 2008 British-American psychological thriller film directed by Richard Eyre. It stars Liam Neeson and Antonio Banderas as competitors for a woman's (Laura Linney) love. Released in 2008, the film was a box office bomb, earning just over $1 million against its $15 million budget.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP]  The Other Man received negative reviews from film critics. It currently holds a 15% rating on Rotten Tomatoes with the consensus: “Despite the best efforts of a talented cast, The Other Man is talky, witless and tension-free.” It was a box office bomb as well, earning just over $1 million against its $15 million budget.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP]  The Other Man (Egyptian Arabic: الرجل الآخر translit.: Al Rajul Al Akhar) is a 1973 Egyptian drama starring Salah Zulfikar and directed by Mohammed Bassiouny. The film features an ensemble cast that includes Shams El Baroudi, Zubaida Tharwat, Kamal El-Shennawi and Emad Hamdy.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP]  The Other Man is a 1916 short comedy film starring Fatty Arbuckle. The film was shot in Fort Lee, New Jersey.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP]  The Other is a psychological horror novel by American writer Thomas Tryon, published in 1971. It was his debut novel. Set in 1935, the novel focuses on the sadistic relationship between two 13-year-old identical twin boys, one of whom is well behaved; the other is a sociopath who wreaks havoc on his family's rural New England farm property. Tryon, who had been a working actor, retired from his Hollywood career to become a novelist. Upon its release, the novel received wide critical acclaim and became a surprise bestseller. The Other was adapted into a 1972 film of the same name directed by Robert Mulligan and starring Uta Hagen. The novel was reprinted in a commemorative edition in 2012 by New York Review Books with an afterword by Dan Chaon.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP] Ain't No Other Man  "Ain't No Other Man" is a song by the American singer Christina Aguilera from her fifth studio album "Back to Basics" (2006). Aguilera co-wrote the song with Kara DioGuardi, Charles Martin Roane, Harold Beatty and the producer DJ Premier. "Ain't No Other Man" is a pop, funk and R&B song that incorporates elements of soul, blues and jazz music. Lyrically, the song was inspired by her marriage to Jordan Bratman in 2005.  "Ain't No Other Man" was released as the lead single from "Back to Basics" on June 6, 2006, by RCA Records. It received generally favorable reviews from music critics, who complimented its musical style and deemed it a standout on the album. Commercially, the single peaked at number six on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, number one in Croatia, and peaked within the top five of record charts of several other countries including Brazil, Canada, Finland, Germany, Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Scotland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  The accompanying music video for "Ain't No Other Man" was directed by Bryan Barber. The music video goes back in time and depicts Aguilera as her then newly established alter ego "Baby Jane". The music video was praised for the "mature" image that Aguilera adopted.  "Ain't No Other Man" won Aguilera a Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI) Pop Award (2008), The music video received four nominations at the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards, including Video of the Year. The single was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for selling over two million units.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP] It's a Man's Man's Man's World  "It's a Man's Man's Man's World" is a song written by James Brown and Betty Jean Newsome. Brown recorded it on February 16, 1966, in a New York City studio and released it as a single later that year. It reached No. 1 on the "Billboard" R&B chart and No. 8 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Its title is a word play on the 1963 comedy film "It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World".
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP] The Third Man  The Third Man is a 1949 British film noir directed by Carol Reed, written by Graham Greene and starring Joseph Cotten, Alida Valli, Orson Welles, and Trevor Howard. Set in postwar Vienna, the film centres on American Holly Martins (Cotten), who arrives in the city to accept a job with his friend Harry Lime (Welles), only to learn that Lime has died. Viewing his death as suspicious, Martins elects to stay in Vienna and investigate the matter.  The atmospheric use of black-and-white expressionist cinematography by Robert Krasker, with harsh lighting and largely subtle "Dutch angle" camera technique, is a major feature of "The Third Man". Combined with the iconic theme music by zither player Anton Karas, seedy locations and acclaimed performances from the cast, the style evokes the atmosphere of an exhausted, cynical post-war Vienna at the start of the Cold War.  Greene wrote the novella of the same name as preparation for the screenplay. Karas's title composition "The Third Man Theme" topped the international music charts in 1950, bringing the previously unknown performer international fame; the theme would also inspire Nino Rota's principal melody in "La Dolce Vita" (1960). "The Third Man" is considered one of the great films of all time, celebrated for its acting, musical score and atmospheric cinematography.  In 1999, the British Film Institute voted "The Third Man" the greatest British film of all time. In 2011, a poll of 150 actors, directors, writers, producers and critics for "Time Out" ranked it the second best British film ever.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP] Why Don't You Do Right?  "Why Don't You Do Right?" (originally recorded as "Weed Smoker's Dream" in 1936) is an American blues and jazz-influenced pop song usually credited to Kansas Joe McCoy. A minor key twelve-bar blues with a few chord substitutions, it is considered a classic "woman's blues" song and has become a standard. Singer Lil Green recorded a popular rendition in 1941, which Peggy Lee recorded the next year — accompanied by Benny Goodman — and made one of her signature songs.
What genre is The Other Man? [SEP] Men at Work  Men at Work are an Australian rock band formed in Melbourne in 1978 and best known for breakthrough hits such as "Down Under", "Who Can It Be Now?", "Be Good Johnny", "Overkill", and "It's a Mistake". Its founding member and frontman is Colin Hay, who performs on lead vocals and guitar. After playing as an acoustic duo with Ron Strykert during 1978–1979, Hay formed the group with Strykert playing bass guitar and Jerry Speiser on drums. They were soon joined by Greg Ham on flute, saxophone, and keyboards and John Rees on bass guitar, with Strykert switching back to lead guitar. The group was managed by Russell Depeller, a friend of Hay, whom he met at La Trobe University. This line-up achieved national and international success during the early to mid 1980s.   In January 1983, they were the first Australian artists to have a simultaneous No. 1 album and No. 1 single on the United States "Billboard" charts: "Business as Usual" (released on 9 November 1981) and "Down Under" (1981), respectively. With the same works, they achieved the distinction of a simultaneous No. 1 album and No. 1 single on the Australian, New Zealand, and United Kingdom charts. Their second album "Cargo" (2 May 1983) was also No. 1 in Australia, No. 2 in New Zealand, No. 3 in the US, and No. 8 in the UK. Their third album "Two Hearts" (3 April 1985) reached the top 20 in Australia and top 50 in the US.  They won the Grammy Award for Best New Artist in 1983, they were inducted into the ARIA Hall of Fame in 1994, and they have sold over 30 million albums worldwide. In May 2001, "Down Under" was listed at No. 4 on the APRA Top 30 Australian songs and "Business as Usual" appeared in the book "100 Best Australian Albums" (October 2010).  In 1984, Speiser and Rees were asked to leave the group, leaving Hay, Ham, and Strykert. During the recording of the "Two Hearts" album, Strykert decided to leave. Soon after the release of "Two Hearts", Ham left also, leaving Hay as the sole remaining member. From 1996 until 2002 Hay and Ham toured the world as Men at Work. On 19 April 2012, Ham was found dead at his home from an apparent heart attack.  In 2019, Hay revived the Men at Work moniker and began touring with the assistance of a backing band including none of the other original members.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]  Waking Up is the second studio album by American rock band OneRepublic, released through Interscope Records on November 17, 2009. Despite being released to mixed reviews, the album peaked at number 21 on the Billboard 200. Lead singer Ryan Tedder has stated in an interview that Jerrod Bettis, OneRepublic's former drummer, had come up with the idea for the album cover while in Seattle.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]  Wake Up! (stylized as Wake UP!) is the debut studio album by Australian-American indie pop musician Hazel English released on April 24, 2020. The album is produced by Justin Raisen and Ben H. Allen.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]  Wake Up World is the debut album by Finnish pop singer Isac Elliot. It was produced by Joonas Angeria and released on 24 May 2013. In its first week of release, the album peaked at number one on the Finnish Album Chart.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]  Wake Up is the debut album by indie pop band Youngblood Hawke. It was released on April 23, 2013 exclusively on iTunes and then released to other digital retailers and stores on April 30, 2013.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]  Wake Up is the debut studio album from Christian hip hop musician Swoope. The album released on March 20, 2012 by Collision Records.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP] Wake Me Up (Avicii song)  "Wake Me Up" is a song by Swedish DJ and record producer Avicii, released as the lead single from his debut studio album "True", released on CD by PRMD Music and Island Records on 17 June 2013. "Wake Me Up" was written by Avicii, Mike Einziger, and American soul singer Aloe Blacc. Blacc also provides vocals for the track and Mike Einziger of Incubus provides acoustic guitar. Peter Dyer also provides keyboard on the song. Avicii introduced "Wake Me Up!" for the first time live on stage at the Ultra Music Festival in Miami. The experimental rendering (it was accompanied by a live band with instruments and vocalists, including Blacc, Einziger and Incubus members Ben Kenney on bass and José Pasillas on drums) reportedly confused and angered a section of the electronic dance festival community. Subsequently, Avicii achieved critical and commercial success with the release of the single worldwide. Avicii's "Wake Me Up" has been named as the highest charting dance track of the decade (2010-2019), sitting at No. 13 in the 100-strong list from the official UK Singles Chart. It is the only song to crack the "Billboard" Decade-End without making the top 3 during any week.  "Wake Me Up" reached number one in much of Europe and charted well in various countries. The song has been described as a "summer anthem" by "Variance Magazine" and, throughout the 2013 festival season, Avicii included it as part of the opening or closing sequence of his sets at EDC Las Vegas, EDC London, Tomorrowland, Creamfields, Electric Zoo and the iTunes Festival. Due to the success of the song, Blacc later released an acoustic version of "Wake Me Up" in his solo EP "Wake Me Up". It was also released as a promotional stand-alone single on Interscope Records, made available online for downloads via iTunes. A separate music video was also made. The Blacc single also charted on various charts.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP] Wake Up (Rage Against the Machine song)  "Wake Up" is a song by American rock band Rage Against the Machine. It is the seventh track from their self-titled debut album. While never released as a single, it remains a staple of their live shows and is usually played as the last song before the encore; the spoken word portion of the song, using a real memo from J. Edgar Hoover, is often replaced with a speech addressing contemporary issues, given by frontman Zack de la Rocha. It appears in the 1999 film "The Matrix" to punctuate the final scene, which has increased its exposure and cultural cachet.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP] Wake Up in the Sky  "Wake Up in the Sky" is a song by American rapper Gucci Mane, American singer-songwriter Bruno Mars, and American rapper Kodak Black. It was released by Guwop and Atlantic Records as the third single from Mane's twelfth studio album "Evil Genius" on September 14, 2018. The song was written by Mane, Black, Mars, Tarentino, DY, and Tre Pounds. The latter four handled the production. "Wake Up in the Sky" is a hip hop, pop and soul song with a trap beat, and lyrics about feeling good and enjoying life.  "Wake Up in the Sky" received mostly positive reviews from music critics who found its chorus catchy and appreciated it for eschewing the trap-indebted sound of "Evil Genius". The song reached number 11 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, and was certified five times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The track peaked at number one on the US Rhythmic chart and it also charted in the top 40 in Canada, Hungary, Norway and Slovakia. Mars and Florent Dechard directed the song's music video, in which Mane, Mars and Black perform as a 1980s soul music trio dressed in suits and jewelry.
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP]
What genre is Wake Up? [SEP] Wake Up Little Susie  "Wake Up Little Susie" is a popular song written by Felice and Boudleaux Bryant and published in 1957.  The song is best known in a recording by the Everly Brothers, issued by Cadence Records as catalog number 1337. The Everly Brothers record reached No. 1 on the "Billboard" Pop chart and the "Cash Box" Best Selling Records chart, despite having been banned from Boston radio stations for lyrics that, at the time, were considered suggestive, according to a 1986 interview with Don Everly. "Wake Up Little Susie" also spent seven weeks atop the "Billboard" country chart and got to No. 2 on the UK Singles Chart. The song was ranked at No. 318 on the "Rolling Stone" magazine's list of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time".
What genre is The Copper? [SEP]  On May 28, 2013, Valley Entertainment released Copper: Original Soundtrack, with music composed by Brian Keane, worldwide on CD and in digital formats.
What genre is The Copper? [SEP]   Copper Sunrise is a children's novel by Canadian author Bryan Buchan. It was first published in 1972. Copper Sunrise is a historical fiction that explores issues that surrounded interactions between Europeans and Native North Americans. This issue is presented to the reader through Jamie, a young boy from Scotland, who, during the early days of colonization in Canada, encounters the last of the Beothuk native people, and despite his father's warnings, befriends a native boy named Tethani. However, the settlers detest the natives and call them savages. They say that the natives are cannibals that eat each other and have
What genre is The Copper? [SEP]  The Copper Promise is a 2013 fantasy novella series by Jen Williams and her debut work. It was initially released between December 2013 and January 2014 as a set of four e-book novellas and has since been published in paperback format as a single volume through Headline (ISBN: 978-1472211118).
What genre is The Copper? [SEP]  The Copper Elephant is a young adult science fiction novel by Adam Rapp. It was published 2 November 1999 by Front Street, an imprint of Boyds Mills Press. The story is told from the perspective of an eleven-year-old girl, Whensday Bluehouse. She lives in a future ruled by a fascist regime that employs child slave labor. She is on the verge of starvation throughout most of the book, and the future is bleak. Library of Congress CPD Summary: "In a world where children under twelve are used as slave labor in subterranean lime mines, eleven-year-old Whensday Bluehouse struggles to survive the continuous poison rains and evade the ruthless Syndicate soldiers."
What genre is The Copper? [SEP]  Copper: Original Soundtrack is the soundtrack to the BBC America and Cineflix Studios television drama Copper. The original music score was composed by Brian Keane.
What genre is The Copper? [SEP] David Copperfield  David Copperfield  is a novel in the bildungsroman genre by Charles Dickens, narrated by the eponymous David Copperfield, detailing his adventures in his journey from infancy to maturity. It was first published as a serial in 1849 and 1850 and as a book in 1850.  "David Copperfield" is also an autobiographical novel: "a very complicated weaving of truth and invention", Called "the triumph of the art of Dickens",  At first glance, the work is modelled on 18th-century "personal histories" that were very popular, like Henry Fielding's "Joseph Andrews" or "Tom Jones", but "David Copperfield" is a more carefully structured work. It begins, like other novels by Dickens, with a bleak picture of childhood in Victorian England, followed by young Copperfield's slow social ascent, as he painfully provides for his aunt, while continuing his studies.  Dickens wrote without an outline, unlike his previous novel, "Dombey and Son". Some aspects of the story were fixed in his mind from the start, but others were undecided until the serial publications were underway.<ref name=Schlicke1999p151 /> The novel has a primary theme of growth and change, but Dickens also satirises many aspects of Victorian life. These include the plight of prostitutes, the status of women in marriage, class structure, the criminal justice system, the quality of schools, and the employment of children in factories.<ref name="British Library"/>
What genre is The Copper? [SEP] Copper Sun  Copper Sun is a 2006 young adult novel by Coretta Scott King Award-winning author Sharon Draper. It was a National Book Award winner.
What genre is The Copper? [SEP] Throwing Copper  Throwing Copper is the third studio album by American alternative rock band Live, released on April 26, 1994, on former MCA Records subsidiary Radioactive Records. It was produced by Jerry Harrison of Talking Heads and was recorded at Pachyderm Recording Studio.<ref name="credits"/> "Throwing Copper" has generally been regarded as Live's best album, having sold over 8 million copies and certified 8× platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.<ref name="RIAA"/>
What genre is The Copper? [SEP] Copper Blue  Copper Blue is the debut studio album by American alternative rock band Sugar. It was voted 1992 Album of the Year by the NME. All of the songs were written by guitarist/vocalist Bob Mould, who also co-produced with Lou Giordano. Musically, the band continues the thick punk guitar of Mould's previous band, Hüsker Dü, while slowing the tempo and emphasizing melody even more.
What genre is The Copper? [SEP] Copperhead Road  Copperhead Road is the third studio album by Steve Earle, released in 1988. The album is often referred to as Earle's first "rock record"; Earle himself calls it the world's first blend of heavy metal and bluegrass, and the January 26, 1989 review of the album by "Rolling Stone" suggested that the style be called "power twang".
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP]  A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy is a book about astronomy and cosmology, and is intended for a general audience. The book was written by Pierre-Yves Bely, Carol Christian, and Jean-Rene Roy, and published in English by Cambridge University Press in 2010. It was originally written in French. The content within the book is written using a question and answer format. It contains some 250 questions, which The Science Teacher states each are answered with a "concise and well-formulated essay that is informative and readable." The Science Teacher review goes on to state that many of the answers given in the book are "little gems of science writing". The Science Teacher summarizes by stating that each question is likely to be thought of by a student, and that "the answers are informative, well constructed, and thorough". The book covers information about the planets, the Earth, the Universe, practical astronomy, history, and awkward questions such as astronomy in the Bible, UFOs, and aliens. Also covered are subjects such as the Big Bang, comprehension of large numbers, and the Moon illusion.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP]  Question and Answer is a science fiction novel by American writer Poul Anderson. It originally appeared in the June and July 1954 issues of magazine  Astounding Science Fiction, and was later reprinted in 1956 as part of Ace Double D-199 under the title Planet of No Return, and again as a stand-alone Ace novel in February 1978 under the original title.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP]  by astrophotographer Nik Szymanek. There is also a regular section showcasing the work of the Faulkes Telescopes led by Daniel Duggan. ; Society News – News and information about UK astronomical societies, plus "Astrolistings" - an extensive programme of forthcoming events and lectures held by societies across the UK. ; Tech talk – Martin Mobberley's guide to overcoming technical problems for the hands-on observer. ; Ask Alan was a part of the magazine where readers had their astronomy questions answered by Dr. Alan Longstaff, (a freelance tutor at the Royal Observatory, Greenwich). Each issue contains a host of regular sections. These include:
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP] 10 Questions Science Can’t Answer (Yet!): A Guide to Science’s Greatest Mysteries (2007) ; The Science of the Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy (2006) ; The Real Mars (2004) ; Eternity:Our Next Billion Years (Macmillan Science) (2008) ; The Worlds of Galileo: A Jovian Odyssey (2001), co-authored with Arthur C. Clarke.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP]  Cheyenne had a similar legend. In addition to his regular duties at the observatory, Burnham spent almost all of his free time working on the Celestial Handbook. His writing and his book were never officially supported by Lowell Observatory. Subtitled "An Observer's Guide to the Universe Beyond the Solar System," the Celestial Handbook combines a lengthy introduction to astronomy with catalog information for every constellation in the sky. Thousands of stars and deep sky objects visible in small telescopes are covered in meticulous detail. Originally self-published in a loose-leaf serial format beginning in 1966, and with a revised edition by Dover
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP] A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy  A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy is a book about astronomy and cosmology, and is intended for a general audience. The book was written by Pierre-Yves Bely, Carol Christian, and Jean-Rene Roy, and published in English by Cambridge University Press in 2010. It was originally written in French. The content within the book is written using a question and answer format. It contains some 250 questions, which "The Science Teacher" states each are answered with a "concise and well-formulated essay that is informative and readable." "The Science Teacher" review goes on to state that many of the answers given in the book are "little gems of science writing". "The Science Teacher" summarizes by stating that each question is likely to be thought of by a student, and that "the answers are informative, well constructed, and thorough".  The book covers information about the planets, the Earth, the Universe, practical astronomy, history, and awkward questions such as astronomy in the Bible, UFOs, and aliens.<ref name=AstronomyNow/> Also covered are subjects such as the Big Bang, comprehension of large numbers, and the Moon illusion.<ref name=AstronomyNow/><ref name=SciTeacher/>
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP] Carol Christian  Carol Ann Christian (born 28 December 1950) is an American astronomer and science communicator, who works for the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI; the science operations center for the Hubble Space Telescope) as a scientist on the institute's outreach program.  Christian was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, and studied astronomy and physics at Boston University, from which she graduated with a PhD in 1979 with a thesis on "Investigations of distant field stars and clusters in the galactic anticenter". She then worked as an astronomer for University of California, Berkeley. In 1992, Christian and her colleagues decided to establish Eureka Scientific as a conduit for grant applications of non-tenure-track astronomers after UC Berkeley did not sponsor her NASA grant proposal due to the lack of any tenure-track faculty position.  In August 1995, Christian was selected as the first head of STScI's new Office of Public Outreach after a national search. She has continued to act as an outreach scientist for the institute as a media spokesperson, educator and author. From 2003 to 2006, she worked as a scientific policy advisor for the State Department. In 2010, she co-authored "A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy" with Pierre-Yves Bely and Jean-René Roy.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP] History of astronomy  Astronomy is the oldest of the natural sciences, dating back to antiquity, with its origins in the religious, mythological, cosmological, calendrical, and astrological beliefs and practices of prehistory: vestiges of these are still found in astrology, a discipline long interwoven with public and governmental astronomy. It was not completely separated in Europe (see astrology and astronomy) during the Copernican Revolution starting in 1543. In some cultures, astronomical data was used for astrological prognostication.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP] 42 (number)  42 (forty-two) is the natural number that follows 41 and precedes 43.
What genre is A Question and Answer Guide to Astronomy? [SEP]
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP]  Buono! was officially announced as a new girl group at the Nakayoshi Festival 2007 on July 21, 2007. The group was formed to sing both the opening ("Kokoro no Tamago") and ending ("Honto no Jibun") themes for the anime adaptation of the Shugo Chara! manga. The members consisted of Momoko Tsugunaga and Miyabi Natsuyaki from Berryz Kobo; and Airi Suzuki from Cute, who have worked together as labelmates in Hello! Project since joining the label in 2002 as Hello! Project Kids. Throughout their career, Buono! continued to record theme songs for Shugo Chara! and their works were featured in the anime's soundtrack. Buono! also partnered up with pizza chain, Pizza-La, and starred in their commercials. They also had a weekly radio show endorsed by Pizza-La called Pizza-La presents Cafe Buono! Buono! was to perform at the Japan Expo in Stockholm, Sweden, on May 24, 2009, but the convention was cancelled a month earlier on April 21, 2009, due to "the financial change in world economy, severe competition from other festivals/concerts as well as poor ticket sales."
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP]  Buono! (ボーノ) was a subgroup of the Japanese girl groups Berryz Kobo and Cute, formed in 2007 by Up-Front Promotion and associated with Hello! Project. The members consisted of Momoko Tsugunaga and Miyabi Natsuyaki from Berryz Kobo, and Airi Suzuki from Cute. Their vocals were backed by the band Dolce, which formerly went under name Busters! in 2008. Buono! was initially formed as an idol project group to perform theme songs for the Shugo Chara! anime series, which ran from 2007 to 2010. After the show's end, they moved labels from Pony Canyon to Zetima and starred in the horror film Ring of Curse. Buono! became inactive after 2012, but returned in 2016 before finally disbanding in 2017.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP]  In December 2010, Buono! moved labels from Pony Canyon to Zetima. Their 11th single, "Zassou No Uta", was released on February 2, 2011. On October 29, 2011, Buono! starred in the horror film, Ring of Curse, marking their first feature film together as a group. In February 2012, Buono! performed in Paris, France with a sold-out concert of 800 people. On June 25, 2012, Buono! took part in Yubi Matsuri, an idol festival produced by Rino Sashihara from AKB48 attended by 8,000 people.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP]  After spending four years inactive, Buono! returned in 2016 with the song "So La Ti Do (Hey, Hey)" and a sold-out live event titled ''Buono! Festa 2016'' held on August 25, 2016. Around the second half of 2016, both Tsugunaga and Suzuki announced that they were leaving Hello! Project in June 2017. On May 22, 2017, Buono! had their final concert, ''Buono! Live 2017: Pienezza'', at the Yokohama Arena. Performing guests included Cute, Country Girls, and Natsuyaki's new girl group Pink Cres. 15,000 people attended the concert. The event was also broadcast on Nico Nico Live.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP]  Author Yuka Hidaka originally published the story online on the website Maho no iLand in 2011 as a cell phone novel. Over 800,000 people subscribed to the story. ASCII Media Works announced in a press release on July 11, 2011 that the novel would receive a live-action adaptation starring the members of the Japanese idol girl group Buono!, consisting of Momoko Tsugunaga, Miyabi Natsuyaki, and Airi Suzuki, in their debut starring film. The film was directed by Mari Asato. The theme song of the film is "Deep Mind" by Buono!.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP] Buono! 2  Buono!2 (read as "Buono! Buono!") is the second album from the J-pop idol group, Buono!. The album was released on February 11, 2009, under the Pony Canyon label, in a regular version and a limited edition version. The regular edition (catalog number PCCA-02840) comes with a Buono! photocard, while the limited edition (PCCA-02839) includes a different photocard and a DVD. Its peak position on the Oricon weekly chart was #7.  The album includes several of Buono!'s previous singles– ""Kiss! Kiss! Kiss!", "Gachinko de Ikō!", "Rottara Rottara"" and ""Co-no-Mi-chi""– while also including the coupling tracks of ""Kiss! Kiss! Kiss!"" and ""Minna Daisuki"".
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP] Buono!  Buono! was initially formed as an idol project group to perform theme songs for the "Shugo Chara!" anime series, which ran from 2007 to 2010. After the show's end, they moved labels from Pony Canyon to Zetima and starred in the horror film "Ring of Curse". Between 2012 and 2016 Buono! became less active and only performed as guest at various Hello! project events. Their radio show "Trattoria Buono!" was still on air until February 2015. They returned in 2016 before finally disbanding in 2017.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP] Victor Buono  Victor Charles Buono (February 3, 1938January 1, 1982) was an American actor, comic, and briefly a recording artist. He was known for playing the villain King Tut in the television series "Batman" (1966–1968) and musician Edwin Flagg in "What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?" (1962), the latter of which earned him Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations. He was a busy actor from his late teens until his death at the age of 43 and, with his large size and sonorous voice, he made a career of playing men much older than he was.
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP] The Good, the Bad and the Ugly  The Good, the Bad and the Ugly (, literally "The good, the ugly, the bad") is a 1966 Italian epic spaghetti Western film directed by Sergio Leone and starring Clint Eastwood as "the Good", Lee Van Cleef as "the Bad", and Eli Wallach as "the Ugly". Its screenplay was written by Age & Scarpelli, Luciano Vincenzoni, and Leone (with additional screenplay material and dialogue provided by an uncredited Sergio Donati), based on a story by Vincenzoni and Leone. Director of photography Tonino Delli Colli was responsible for the film's sweeping widescreen cinematography, and Ennio Morricone composed the film's score, including its main theme. It was an Italian-led production with co-producers in Spain, West Germany, and the United States. Most of the filming took place in Spain.  The film is known for Leone's use of long shots and close-up cinematography, as well as his distinctive use of violence, tension, and highly stylised gunfights. The plot revolves around three gunslingers competing to find a fortune in a buried cache of Confederate gold amid the violent chaos of the American Civil War (specifically the Battle of Glorieta Pass of the New Mexico Campaign in 1862) while participating in many battles, confrontations, and duels along the way. The film was the third collaboration between Leone and Clint Eastwood, and the second with Lee Van Cleef.  "The Good, the Bad and the Ugly" was marketed as the third and final installment in the Dollars Trilogy, following "A Fistful of Dollars" and "For a Few Dollars More". The film was a financial success, grossing over $38 million at the worldwide box office, and is credited with having catapulted Eastwood into stardom. Due to general disapproval of the spaghetti Western genre at the time, critical reception of the film following its release was mixed, but it gained critical acclaim in later years, becoming known as the "definitive spaghetti Western".
What genre is Buono! 2? [SEP] Hillside Strangler  The Hillside Strangler, later the Hillside Stranglers, is the media epithet for one, later discovered to be two, American serial killers who terrorized Los Angeles, California, between October 1977 and February 1978, with the nicknames originating from the fact that many of the victims' bodies were discovered in the hills surrounding the city.   It was initially believed that only one person was responsible for the killings. The police, however, determined from the positions of the bodies that two criminals were working together, but withheld that information from the press. The perpetrators were eventually discovered to be cousins Kenneth Bianchi and Angelo Buono Jr., who were later convicted of kidnapping, raping, torturing and murdering 10 women and girls ranging in age from 12 to 28.  The Hillside Strangler murders began with the deaths of three sex workers who were found strangled and dumped naked on hillsides northeast of Los Angeles between October and early November 1977. It was not until the deaths of five young women who were not sex workers, but girls who had been abducted from middle-class neighborhoods, that the media attention and subsequent "Hillside Strangler" moniker came to prominence.   There were two more deaths in December and February before the murders abruptly stopped. An extensive investigation proved fruitless until the arrest of Bianchi in January 1979 for the murder of two more young women in Washington and the subsequent linking of his past to the Strangler case.   The most expensive trial in the history of the California legal system at that time followed, with Bianchi and Buono eventually being found guilty of those crimes and sentenced to life imprisonment.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP]  Blue is an opera in two acts with music by Jeanine Tesori and libretto by Tazewell Thompson. It premiered at the Glimmerglass Festival in 2019 and received the Music Critics Association of North America 2020 Award for Best New Opera.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP]  Aura is the eighth studio album by The Mission. Released in 2001, it was their first studio album since Blue in 1996. The album was also released as a slipcased limited edition 2-CD set. The bonus disc features the original version of "In Denial", two videos - "Evangeline" and "Deliverance" (live), interview footage and a weblink. The album was re-released in November 2014 together with its accompanying Aural Delight.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP]  Aura performed and wrote their own original material written by main songwriter Dave Small (Vocals) with input from various other band members, they also performed songs by artists who had inspired and influenced them in their band style of 1960s/1970s classic rock and blues. Achievements included sharing the bill with Walter Trout, Wishbone Ash, Hayseed Dixie and Rose Hill Drive; While supporting Stan Webb's Chicken Shack at Stourbridge Rock Café in 2000 they were spotted by a promoter who wanted a young act to support Status Quo. They played before 5,000 people at an open-air concert at Dudley Castle in 2007. They also toured Holland, Germany, Belgium and
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP]  Eternal Blue is the debut studio album by Canadian heavy metal band Spiritbox. It was released on September 17, 2021, through the band's own Pale Chord Records in partnership with Rise Records. Work began in 2018 and 2019 but was suspended due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which delayed the album release initially slated for April 2020. Spiritbox relocated to Joshua Tree, California, and completed the songwriting process for the album, which Dan Braunstein and the band's guitarist Mike Stringer produced. The recording was finished by Braunstein in February 2021. Eternal Blue contains an array of metal genres and subgenres with electronic elements as part of Spiritbox's dynamic, while singer Courtney LaPlante employs both screamed and clean vocals. In advance of the record's release, five songs became singles, "Holy Roller", "Constance", "Circle With Me", "Secret Garden", and "Hurt You", all of which have recorded entries on the American Billboard charts. Music critics reviewed the album positively, who generally praised its production, songwriting, and musicianship. Eternal Blue proved an immediate chart success for the band, recording entries in eight countries and debuting at number thirteen on the Billboard 200.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP]  Spiritbox employed several heavy metal-based musical styles on Eternal Blue. Critics have identified the style on the album as metalcore, post-metal, djent, progressive metal,  and alternative metal. The record was also labelled "post-metalcore" and a "nu-metal-meets-djent riff-fest". Near the release of the record, LaPlante herself defined the musical genre of Spiritbox as metalcore. LaPlante makes use of both screaming and singing throughout the record. The band's use of the digital synthesizer provided a unique sonic aspect to Eternal Blue, displaying aspects ranging from atmospheric to industrial. This approach led Guitar World to describe Spiritbox as "digitally infused metal" upon the release of what became the album's first single, "Holy Roller". Spiritbox said they derived inspiration related to this approach from the 1980s pop music scene, Nine Inch Nails, and early post-punk bands such as the Cure in an interview following the album's release; specifically, minimalist "airy" song structures characteristic of 1980s dark rock served as an important base to the music on Eternal Blue.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP] The Blue Aura  The Blue Aura is a juvenile science fiction novel, the nineteenth in Hugh Walters' "Chris Godfrey of U.N.E.X.A." series. It was published in the UK by Faber and Faber in 1979.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP] Indigo children  Indigo children, according to a pseudoscientific New Age concept, are children who are believed to possess special, unusual, and sometimes supernatural traits or abilities. The idea is based on concepts developed in the 1970s by Nancy Ann Tappe, who claimed to have been noticing indigo children beginning in the late 1960s. Her ideas were further developed by Lee Carroll and Jan Tober. The concept of indigo children gained popular interest with the publication of a series of books in the late 1990s and the release of several films in the following decade. A variety of books, conferences, and related materials have been created surrounding belief in the idea of indigo children and their nature and abilities. The interpretations of these beliefs range from their being the next stage in human evolution, in some cases possessing paranormal abilities such as telepathy, to the belief that they are more empathetic and creative than their peers.  No scientific studies give credibility to the existence of indigo children or their traits. Some parents choose to label their children who have been diagnosed with learning disabilities as an indigo child to alternatively diagnose them. Critics view this as a way for parents to avoid considering pediatric treatment or a psychiatric diagnosis. Some lists of traits used to describe indigo children have also been criticized for being vague enough to be applied to most people, a form of the Forer effect.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP] Aura Lea  "Aura Lea" (sometimes spelled "Aura Lee") is an American Civil War song about a maiden. It was written by W. W. Fosdick (lyrics) and George R. Poulton (music). The melody was used in Elvis Presley's 1956 hit song "Love Me Tender".
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP] S.C. Adelaide  Sportiva Calcio Adelaide commonly referred to as Adelaide or the abbreviation S.C. Adelaide, is a Ghanaian professional football club based in Tema, Greater Accra, who are competing in the Ghana Division Three League. The club has spent most of their history as a youth football team, but recently converted into a senior team in second tier of the Ghana Football Leagues. Adelaide was initially started as a football club, as a club oriented to multiple sports. Adelaide has departments for athletics, basketball, football, handball, swimming, volleyball, and others. Their motto is Deo Juvante (Latin) meaning with God's Help.
What genre is The Blue Aura? [SEP] Walter John Kilner  Walter John Kilner, M.D. B.A., M.B. (Cantab.) M.R.C.P., etc. (1847–1920) was a medical electrician at St. Thomas Hospital, London. There, from 1879 to 1893, he was in charge of electrotherapy. He was also in private medical practice, in Ladbroke Grove, London.   He wrote papers on a range of subjects but is today best remembered for his late study "The Human Atmosphere". In 1883, he became a Member of the Royal College of Physicians. In his spare time he was a keen chess player.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP]  Heaven is a 1987 documentary film about beliefs concerning the afterlife and heaven in particular. The film was written and directed by Diane Keaton, and features a soundtrack by Howard Shore.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP]  Heaven (ヘヴン) is a 2009 novel by Mieko Kawakami. Its English translation, released in 2021 and published by Europa Editions, had Sam Bett and David Boyd as the translators. This is the second work written by Kawakami to receive an English translation. The title refers to a painting in the story which one of the characters, a girl named Kojima, gave a new name.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP]  Bright Black Heaven is the second studio album by American electronica band Blaqk Audio, consisting of Davey Havok and Jade Puget of AFI, released on September 11, 2012 under Superball Music's imprint Big Death. The album title was first revealed in October 2009 in an interview with Jade on myYearbook, and the album itself had been completed as of December 2, 2011. The first single, "Faith Healer", was released on August 14.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP]  Heaven is the second studio album by Canadian alternative rock band Dilly Dally. It was released on September 14, 2018 by Partisan Records in the United States nd United Kingdom, and by Dine Alone Records in Canada.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP]  Heaven Will be Mine is a sci-fi romance visual novel developed by American studios Pillow Fight Games and Worst Girl Games for Windows, Mac, Linux, and iOS. The story is set in an alternate history post-Cold War universe wherein humanity has split into three warring factions, known as the Memorial Foundation, Cradle's Graces, and the Celestial Mechanics. Over the course of the game the player, through combat interactions with the other two faction pilots, can gradually push one of these three factions toward dominance over space and humanity's future. The player can follow the story by selecting one of three characters, each with her own unique backstory, personality, and faction alignment, though this alignment may change over the course of the narrative depending on player choices. Heaven Will Be Mine's gameplay is primarily text-based, with certain situations where the player can make decisions that will determine the outcome of the game.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP] Heaven (Bryan Adams song)  "Heaven" is a song by the Canadian singer and songwriter Bryan Adams recorded in 1983, written by Adams and Jim Vallance. It first appeared on the "A Night in Heaven" soundtrack album the same year and was later included on Adams' album "Reckless" in 1984. It was released as the third single from "Reckless" and reached number one on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 in June 1985, over a year and a half after the song first appeared on record. The single was certified Gold in Canada in 1985.  Heavily influenced by Journey's 1983 hit "Faithfully", the song was written while Adams served as the opening act on that band's Frontiers Tour, and features their drummer, Steve Smith.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP] Heaven 17  Heaven 17 are an English new wave and synth-pop band that formed in Sheffield in 1980. The band were a trio for most of their career, composed of Martyn Ware (keyboards) and Ian Craig Marsh (keyboards) (both previously of the Human League), and Glenn Gregory (vocals, keyboards). Although most of the band's music was recorded in the 1980s, they have occasionally reformed to record and perform, playing their first ever live concerts in 1997.<ref name="British Hit Singles & Albums"/> Marsh left the band in 2007 and Ware and Gregory continued to perform as Heaven 17.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP] Heaven Shall Burn  Heaven Shall Burn are a German extreme metal band from Saalfeld, formed in 1995. The band consists of vocalist Marcus Bischoff, guitarists Maik Weichert and Alexander Dietz, bassist Eric Bischoff and drummer Christian Bass. They are currently signed to Century Media. They have released eight studio albums, as well as a number of other records. One of their albums, "Veto", entered the German album charts at number 2 in 2013, with their latest, "Of Truth and Sacrifice", reaching number 1.  Heaven Shall Burn's musical style has been described as metalcore, melodic death metal Their lyrics often express heavy support for anti-racism and anti-fascism. They also have lyrics about resistance, oppression and animal rights. All members are vegans or vegetarians and most follow or followed a straight edge lifestyle.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP] Stairway to Heaven  "Stairway to Heaven" is a song by English rock band Led Zeppelin, released in late 1971. It was composed by the band's guitarist Jimmy Page and lead singer Robert Plant for their untitled fourth studio album (often titled "Led Zeppelin IV"). The song is widely regarded as one of the greatest rock songs of all time.  The song has three sections, each one progressively increasing in tempo and volume. The song begins in a slow tempo with acoustic instruments (guitar and recorders) before introducing electric instruments. The final section is an uptempo hard rock arrangement highlighted by Page's guitar solo (considered by many to be one of the greatest ever) accompanying Plant's vocals that end with the plaintive a cappella line: "And she's buying a stairway to heaven."  "Stairway to Heaven" was voted number three in 2000 by VH1 on its list of the 100 Greatest Rock Songs, in 2004 "Rolling Stone" magazine ranked "Stairway to Heaven" number 31 on its list of "500 Greatest Songs of All Time". It was the most requested song on FM radio stations in the United States in the 1970s, despite never having been commercially released as a single in the US. In November 2007, through download sales promoting Led Zeppelin's "Mothership" release, "Stairway to Heaven" reached number 37 on the UK Singles Chart.
What genre is Heaven? [SEP] Deafheaven  Deafheaven is an American post-metal band formed in 2010. Originally based in San Francisco, the group began as a two-piece with singer George Clarke and guitarist Kerry McCoy, who recorded and self-released a demo album together. Following its release, Deafheaven recruited three new members and began to tour. Before the end of 2010, the band signed to Deathwish Inc. and later released their debut album "Roads to Judah," in April 2011. They established a unique style blending black metal, shoegazing, and post-rock, among other influences, later called "blackgaze" by reviewers.  Deafheaven's second album, "Sunbather", was released in 2013 to wide critical acclaim, becoming one of the best reviewed albums of the year in the US. and in 2018 with "Ordinary Corrupt Human Love". Their 2021 fifth album, "Infinite Granite", drastically reduced the presence of screamed vocals.
What genre is Heist? [SEP]  While there is sometimes some confusion as to what counts as a heist film there are a set of characteristics that most films in the genre follow. The most basic of these is that films in the genre tend to follow the planning, execution and aftermath of one large robbery. While there can be smaller crimes leading up to the major crime, this major crime is the centerpiece of the film and is the event which informs much of the film's plot. As a result of this, heist films tend to focus on the process of the heist, often showing how the criminals
What genre is Heist? [SEP]  The Heist is the debut studio album by American hip hop duo Macklemore & Ryan Lewis. It was released on October 9, 2012, by Macklemore LLC, distributed under the Alternative Distribution Alliance. The album was independently self-produced, self-recorded and self-released by the duo, with no mainstream promotion or support. After the album's release, the duo hired Warner Music Group's radio promotion department to help the push with their singles for a small percentage of the sales. The album was recorded in Seattle, Washington between 2009 and 2012. Within each series of singles were released, before the album release from 2010 and onwards; the fourth single "Thrift Shop", which was the most commercially successful – peaking at number one on the Billboard Hot 100, number one in 17 other countries, including number one positions
What genre is Heist? [SEP]  The heist film or caper film is a subgenre of crime film, consisting of films that focus on the planning, execution and aftermath of a large robbery. One of the early defining heist films was The Asphalt Jungle (1950), which Film Genre 2000 wrote "almost single-handedly popularized the genre for mainstream cinema". It featured robbers whose personal failings ultimately led to the failure of their robbery. Similar films using this formula were Armored Car Robbery (1950), The Killing (1956), and The Getaway (1972). By the 1990s, heist films "experiment and play with these conventions" incorporating things like comedy into heist stories.
What genre is Heist? [SEP]  The Heist is a 2014 spy novel by Daniel Silva. It is the fourteenth in the Gabriel Allon series. It was released in July 2014 and within two weeks was a New York Times Bestseller. It focused on the recovery of stolen art work.
What genre is Heist? [SEP]  heist itself and involves a group of variously skilled criminals who are brought together to complete the crime. Two earlier films that some consider earlier examples of the genre are Criss Cross (1949) and The Killers (1946). While these films do follow the planning execution and aftermath of a single heist from the criminals perspective, critics argue that they devote too much time to the planning and aftermath of the heist and too little to the actual heist. As a result they are frequently cited as key films in the development of the genre but not the start of the genre itself. All of these
What genre is Heist? [SEP] Heist film  The heist film or caper film is a subgenre of crime film focused on the planning, execution, and aftermath of a significant robbery.  One of the early defining heist films was "The Asphalt Jungle" (1950), which "Film Genre 2000" wrote "almost single-handedly popularized the genre for mainstream cinema". It featured robbers whose personal failings ultimately led to the failure of their robbery. Similar films using this formula were "Armored Car Robbery" (1950), "The Killing" (1956), and "The Getaway" (1972). By the 1990s, heist films began to "experiment and play with these conventions," incorporating things like comedy into heist stories.
What genre is Heist? [SEP] Money Heist  Money Heist (, , ) is a Spanish heist crime drama television series created by Álex Pina. The series traces two long-prepared heists led by the Professor (Álvaro Morte), one on the Royal Mint of Spain, and one on the Bank of Spain, told from the perspective of one of the robbers, Tokyo (Úrsula Corberó). The narrative is told in a real-time-like fashion and relies on flashbacks, time-jumps, hidden character motivations, and an unreliable narrator for complexity.  The series was initially intended as a limited series to be told in two parts. It had its original run of 15 episodes on Spanish network Antena 3 from 2 May 2017 through 23 November 2017. Netflix acquired global streaming rights in late 2017. It re-cut the series into 22 shorter episodes and released them worldwide, beginning with the first part on 20 December 2017, followed by the second part on 6 April 2018. In April 2018, Netflix renewed the series with a significantly increased budget for 16 new episodes total. Part 3, with eight episodes, was released on 19 July 2019. Part 4, also with eight episodes, was released on 3 April 2020. A documentary involving the producers and the cast premiered on Netflix the same day, titled "" (). In July 2020, Netflix renewed the show for a fifth and final part, which was released in two five-episode volumes on 3 September and 3 December 2021, respectively. Similar to "Money Heist: The Phenomenon", a two-part documentary involving the producers and cast premiered on Netflix the same day, titled "Money Heist: From Tokyo to Berlin". The series was filmed in Madrid, Spain. Significant portions were also filmed in Panama, Thailand, Italy (Florence), Denmark and in Portugal (Lisbon). A loose remake/continuation set in the same world, "", was released on June 24, 2022, while a direct spin-off, "Berlin", with Pedro Alonso reprising his role, is in active development, forming a shared universe.  The series received several awards including the International Emmy Award for Best Drama Series at the 46th International Emmy Awards, as well as critical acclaim for its sophisticated plot, interpersonal dramas, direction, and for trying to innovate Spanish television. The Italian anti-fascist song "Bella ciao", which plays multiple times throughout the series, became a summer hit across Europe in 2018. By 2018, the series was the most-watched non-English-language series and one of the most-watched series overall on Netflix,<ref name=newstatesman_180824/> having particular resonance with viewers from Mediterranean Europe and the Latin American regions.
What genre is Heist? [SEP] The Heist (album)  The Heist is the debut studio album by American hip hop duo Macklemore & Ryan Lewis. It was released on October 9, 2012, by Macklemore LLC, distributed under the Alternative Distribution Alliance. The album was independently self-produced, self-recorded and self-released by the duo, with no mainstream promotion or support. After the album's release, the duo hired Warner Music Group's radio promotion department to help the push with their singles for a small percentage of the sales.  The album was recorded in Seattle, Washington between 2009 and 2012. Within each series of singles were released, before the album release from 2010 and onwards; the fourth single "Thrift Shop", which was the most commercially successful – peaking at number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100, number one in 17 other countries, including number one positions in New Zealand and Australia, as well as a successful run on the charts in many other countries. The album's second single "Can't Hold Us" was also largely commercially successful, peaking at number one in the United States, Australia, and Sweden.  The album sold 78,000 copies in its first week, debuting at number two on the "Billboard" 200, and at number one on the "Billboard" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, while entering the Canadian Albums Chart at number four. The album received generally positive reviews from critics. On January 26, 2014, it won the Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, where it was also nominated for Album of the Year and earned Macklemore and Ryan Lewis the award for Best New Artist. As of early 2016, the album has sold 1,490,000 copies in the United States.
What genre is Heist? [SEP] Heist (video game)  Heist (stylized as Hei$t) is a cancelled action-adventure video game that was developed by inXile Entertainment and would have been published by Codemasters for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. It was to be set in San Francisco, California, c. 1969, following a group of criminals as they performed various thefts.
What genre is Heist? [SEP] Heist (2015 film)  Heist (also called Bus 657), is a 2015 American heist action thriller film directed by Scott Mann and written by Stephen Cyrus Sepher and Max Adams, based on the original story by Sepher. The film stars Robert De Niro, Jeffrey Dean Morgan, Kate Bosworth, Morris Chestnut, Dave Bautista, Sepher, and Gina Carano. The plot of the film revolves around a casino heist by an employee who needs to pay for his sick daughter's treatment.  The film was released on November 13, 2015, by Lionsgate Premiere.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP]  Carl Falsen was born in Christiania, Norway. He was the son of Norwegian Chief Justice Enevold De Falsen (1755–1808) and Anna Henrike Petronelle Mathiesen (1762–1825). He was the brother of Christian Magnus Falsen. Both his father and grandfather were senior justice officials. He was trained in the law and took his examination as a Candidate of Law (''cand. Jur.'') at the University of Copenhagen in 1806. Falsen was the town clerk for Trondheim starting in 1809. He was hired as the town bailuff for Trondheim from 1821 until 1826. In 1826, he served as the magistrate judge for Eiker, Sigdal, and Modum. In 1839, he was appointed County governor for Bratsberg county (now called Telemark). He
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP]  Carl Valentin Falsen (27 May 1787&ndash;14 April 1852) was a Norwegian civil servant, a county governor, and Member of the Storting.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP]  The family descends from Falle Pedersen (1625–1702), who lived on the farm Østrup on Sealand, Denmark. The Falsen family share the same roots as the famous Scanian family Weibull. Falle Pedersen's son Enevold Falsen (1686–1769) was Mayor of Copenhagen. He was in 1758 ennobled under the name de Falsen. His son Christian Magnus de Falsen (1719–1799) became a justitiarius in Akershus, Norway. He was the father of the author and the official Enevold de Falsen (1755–1808). Enevold was the father of the statesman Christian Magnus Falsen (‘Father of the Constitution’), County Governor Carl Valentin Falsen, and Rear Admiral Jørgen Conrad de Falsen.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP]  Christian Magnus Falsen (14 September 1782 – 13 January 1830) was a Norwegian constitutional father, statesman, jurist, and historian. He was an important member of the Norwegian Constituent Assembly  and was one of the writers of the Constitution of Norway.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP]  in that job until 1846 when he was transferred to a new job. From 1846 until 1852, he served as the County Governor of Christianssand stiftamt as well as the County Governor of Lister og Mandals amt (one of the subordinate counties). Falsen was elected to the Norwegian Parliament in 1818 and 1821 as a representative from Trondheim, in 1830-1838 from Buskerud from 1842 and 1845 representing Bratsberg and 1848-1850 as representative from Kristiansand. He served as President of the Storting (Stortingspresidenter) during 1833, 1845, and 1848. Carl Falsen was honored as a Knight of the Order of the Polar Star in 1822. He was made a Commander in the Order of St. Olav in 1847.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP] Carl Valentin Falsen  Carl Valentin Falsen (27 May 1787–14 April 1852) was a Norwegian civil servant, a county governor, and Member of the Storting.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP] Falsen (noble family)  Falsen, also "de Falsen", is a Danish and Norwegian noble family.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP] Halvor Olaus Christensen  Halvor Olaus Christensen (18 February 1800 – 10 June 1891) was a Norwegian politician.
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP] Andreas Arntzen  Andreas Arntzen (18 February 1777 – 14 December 1837) was a Norwegian politician.  He was born in Grue, and graduated as cand.jur. in Copenhagen in 1802. He then worked as an attorney, chief of police of Christiania, Supreme Court judge and even a timber merchant.  He was elected to the Norwegian Parliament in 1814, 1818 and 1821, representing the constituency of Christiania.  On 1 December 1836 Arntzen was appointed Minister of Church Affairs and Education. He left on 1 June 1837, but returned a month later to become Minister of Justice and the Police.<ref name="nsd"/> He died before the end of the year.  Andreas Arntzen was the father of jurist Carl Arntzen (1801–1877) and County Governor Karelius August Arntzen (1802–1875).
Who is the father of Carl Valentin Falsen? [SEP] Enevold De Falsen  Enevold de Falsen (17 October 1755 – 16 November 1808) was a Danish-Norwegian lawyer, poet, actor and statesman.
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP]  Blue Peter is a British children's television magazine programme created by John Hunter Blair. It is the longest-running children's TV show in the world, having been broadcast since October 1958. It was broadcast primarily from BBC Television Centre in London until September 2011, when the programme moved to dock10 studios at MediaCityUK in Salford, Greater Manchester. It is currently shown live on the CBBC television channel on Thursdays at 5pm. Following its original creation, the programme was developed by a BBC team led by Biddy Baxter; she became the programme editor in 1965, relinquishing the role in 1988. Throughout the show's history there have been 40 presenters; currently, it is hosted by Richie Driss, Mwaksy
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP]  his daughter's diaries to Britain. From 1971 the summer expedition from the previous year was edited into special programmes broadcast under the title Blue Peter Flies The World, televised during the summer break when the team were recording the latest expedition. The first was shown in July 1971 and featured the expedition to Jamaica. In 1974, the Blue Peter Garden was officially opened in a green space outside the Television Centre restaurant block. By this time, Blue Peter had become an established children's programme, with regular features which have since become traditions. In 1978, the show celebrated its twentieth anniversary with a nationwide balloon launch
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP]  Christopher Trace and Leila Williams were the first presenters of Blue Peter in October 1958, and since then, there have been 37 subsequent presenters. Richie Driss, who was announced as the 38th presenter in April 2019 currently presents the program alongside Mwaksy Mudenda who was revealed as the 39th presenter in May 2020. The 40th presenter joined the team in September 2020, Adam Beales. Other personnel who have played roles on the show include the zoologist George Cansdale, who was the programme's first on-screen veterinarian, and Percy Thrower who was the show's gardening expert from 21 March 1974 to 23 November 1987 and was presented with a Gold Blue Peter badge shortly before he died in 1988. He was followed from 1988 until 1991 by Chris Crowder and
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP]  but agreed to have a live scan of her baby, something which had never been done on television before. Blue Peter was praised for this by the National Childbirth Trust who told the BBC that in 'five minutes, Blue Peter had done more to educate children about birth than they'd achieved in ten years of sending out leaflets'. Wenner decided to leave along with Heath on 23 June 1980. Sarah Greene and Peter Duncan both joined in 1980, and a new producer, Lewis Bronze, joined in 1982. The 1980s saw the Blue Peter studio become more colourful and bright, with the presenters gradually wearing more
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP]  In a list of the 100 Greatest British Television Programmes drawn up by the British Film Institute in 2000, voted for by industry professionals, Blue Peter was placed 6th. In 1992, Blue Peter won the BAFTA for Best Children's Programme (Factual): Lewis Bronze. In 2008, Blue Peter was nominated for the BAFTA Children's Kids Vote Award. Asteroid 16197 Bluepeter is named in its honour. The asteroid was discovered on 7 January 2000, the day that the Blue Peter time capsules from 1971 and 1984 were unearthed.
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP] Janet Ellis  Janet Ellis, (born 16 September 1955) is an English television presenter, actress and writer, who is best known for presenting the children's television programmes "Blue Peter" and "Jigsaw" between 1979 and 1987. She has published two novels, "The Butcher's Hook" (2016) and "How It Was" (2019). She has three children: the singer/songwriter Sophie Ellis-Bextor, the former child actor now drummer Jackson Ellis-Leach and the art historian Martha Ellis-Leach.
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP] Yvette Fielding  Yvette Paula Fielding (born 23 September 1968) is an English television presenter, producer and actress. She became the youngest presenter on "Blue Peter" aged 18, and one of her episodes was subsequently voted the "Favourite "Blue Peter" moment" ever. With her husband Karl Beattie, she presented the "Most Haunted" series on the Living channel, via their own production company, followed by "Ghosthunting With...", establishing Fielding as 'first lady of the paranormal'. She has appeared in a wide range of other programmes, from "The Wright Stuff" to "Through the Keyhole" and "I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!".
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP] Peter Purves  Peter John Purves (; born 10 February 1939) is an English television presenter and actor. He played Steven Taylor in "Doctor Who" under the First Doctor, a role he continued to play in audio dramas for Big Finish Productions. He later became a presenter on the BBC children's programme "Blue Peter" for eleven years. He has continued to make regular television appearances, including coverage of the Crufts dog show.
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP] Blue Peter  Blue Peter is a British children's television entertainment programme created by John Hunter Blair. It is the longest-running children's TV show in the world, having been broadcast since October 1958. It was broadcast primarily from BBC Television Centre in London until September 2011, when the programme moved to dock10 studios at MediaCityUK in Salford, Greater Manchester. It is currently shown live on the CBBC television channel on Fridays at 5pm. The show is also repeated on Saturdays at 11:30am, Sundays at 9:00am and a BSL version is shown on Tuesdays at 2:00pm.  Following its original creation, the programme was developed by a BBC team led by Biddy Baxter; she became the programme editor in 1965, relinquishing the role in 1988. Throughout the show's history there have been 41 presenters; currently, it is hosted by Richie Driss, Mwaksy Mudenda and Joel Mawhinney.  The show uses a nautical title and theme. Its content, which follows a magazine/entertainment format, features viewer and presenter challenges, competitions, celebrity interviews, popular culture, and sections on making arts and crafts items from household items. The show has had a garden in both London and Salford, known as the Blue Peter Garden, which is used during the summer and for outdoor activities. The programme has featured a number of pets including dogs, tortoises, cats, and parrots. The longevity of "Blue Peter" has established it as a significant part of British culture and British heritage.
Who is the father of Blue Peter? [SEP] Matt Baker  Matthew James Baker (born 23 December 1977) is a British television presenter. He co-presented the children's television show "Blue Peter" from 1999 until 2006, BBC One's "Countryfile" since 2009 and "The One Show" from 2011 to 2020, with Alex Jones.
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP]  He married Tora Gurstad in 1912. Their children include Professor of geology Hans Holtedahl (1917–2001).
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP]  Grotewohl married to Marie Martha Louise ( Ohst) from 1919 until 1949. The couple had two children, a son Hans and daughter Dorle. Hans Grotewohl (1924–1999), was an architect who was sent by his father to lead a German Work Team for rebuilding Hamhung, North Korea, in 1954 after the Korean War. Grotewohl married his secretary, Johanna Schumann (née Danielzik) the same year as his divorce from Ohst. He was an avid painter and amateur filmmaker.
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP]  Iwand was born in Schreibendorf, Silesia, German Empire (modern Pisary, Lower Silesian Voivodeship), the son of pastor Otto Iwand and his wife Lydia née Herrmann. In 1927 Hans married Ilse Ehrhardt; the couple had five children. Hans Iwand is buried in the village of Beienrode, Königslutter. Iwand's youngest daughter, the Veronika Geyer-Iwand (1943-1997), a popular religion teacher and the mayor of Beienrode, married pastor Klaus Geyer (1941-2003). The son-in-law was convicted in 1998 of manslaughter in her brutal murder (July 25, 1997); Geyer was the only German theologian ever to have been jailed after committing such a crime.
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP]  Holtermann was the son of the district physician Sven Ruud Holtermann (1854–1916) and his wife, née Lehmann. Dr. Holtermann served in Sokndal, and Hans Reidar Holtermann grew up there. He was a nephew of architect Ove Bjelke Holtermann and a grandnephew of architect Peter Høier Holtermann. On 29 November 1926, Holtermann married Helsingborg-born Elisabeth Jønsson (b. 25 January 1899) in Stockholm, Sweden. He remarried on 3 October 1947, when he married Maren Louise ("Vivi") Hertzberg.
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP]  Hans Egon Holthusen (15 April 1913 &ndash; 21 January 1997) was a German Nazi, lyric poet, essayist, and literary scholar. Holthusen was born in Rendsburg the Province of Schleswig-Holstein, the son of a Protestant clergyman. He studied German philology, history, and philosophy at the universities of Tübingen, Berlin, and Munich, gaining reputation as a Rilke scholar with the publication of his Rilkes Sonette an Orpheus: Versuch einer Interpretation in 1937, at the age of 24. Holthusen was a member of the SS (since 1933) and of the Nazi Party (since 1937). During the Second World War, between 1939 and 1944, he served in the German army. In the early 1960s, Holthusen worked at the Goethe-Institut in New York City, subsequently obtaining a professorship at Northwestern University in Evanston, Illinois, a post which he held until 1981. In 1960, Mascha Kaléko refused the Berlin Theodor Fontane
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP] Hans Holtedahl  Hans Holtedahl (8 December 1917 – 24 February 2001) was a Norwegian geologist. He was a professor of geology at the University of Bergen.<ref name="snl"/> Section::::Biography. He was born in Krisitania (now Oslo, Norway) a son of geologist Olaf Holtedahl (1885–1975) and Tora Gurstad (1889–1980). <ref name="snl"/>   In 1936, Holtedahl began studying chemistry and zoology at the University of Oslo.  In 1939, he joined a research expedition to Antarctica. Following the German occupation of Norway during spring 1940, he went to Great Britain. He became part of a Norwegian field unit in support of the Free Norwegian forces. Given six months leave in Edinburgh, he studied geology under geologist Arthur Holmes (1890–1965) at the University of Edinburgh.  In 1948 he took a master's degree at the University of Oslo and in 1957 he received his doctorate from the University of Bergen. He worked for the University of Bergen from 1949, and was appointed professor of Quaternary geology from 1967, and professor of marine geology from 1972. His doctor thesis treated the geomorphology and sediments on the continental shelf off the coast of Møre. He published a work on the geology of the Hardangerfjord in 1975. In 1952, Hans Holtedahl was honored by the Norwegian Geological Society with the Reusch Medal.  Section::::Personal life. During his studies in Edinburgh, he met the philology student Wendy Moira Lowe (1923–1978), who he married in 1946 and with whom he had three children.<ref name="nbl"/>
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP] Deaths in February 2001  The following is a list of notable deaths in February 2001.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP] Sandefjord  Sandefjord () is a city and the most populous municipality in Vestfold og Telemark county, Norway. The municipality of Sandefjord was established on 1 January 1838. The municipality of Sandar was merged into Sandefjord on 1 January 1969. On 1 January 2017, rural municipalities of Andebu and Stokke were merged into Sandefjord as part of a nationwide municipal reform. This merger was the first one to take place during the reform.  The city is known for its rich Viking history and the prosperous whaling industry, which made Sandefjord the richest city in Norway. Today, it has built up the third-largest merchant fleet in Norway. It is home to Europe's only museum dedicated to whaling, and is home to Gokstad Mound where the 9th century Gokstad Ship was discovered.  Sandefjord has numerous nicknames, including the Viking, Whaling "capital" of Norway or as the undisputed summer city of Norway. The city is also known as the "whaling capital of the world." It has also been dubbed the "Bathing City" (Badebyen), due to its many beaches and former resort spas. It is still considered a resort town, due to high numbers of visitors during summer months.  Sandefjord has become a transportation hub, home of Torp International Airport, one of Norway's largest airports. Daily ferry connections to Sweden are provided by "Fjord Line" and "Color Line" from the city harbor. European Route E18, one of Norway's most important roads, traverses the municipality.  Sandefjord is a stronghold for the Conservative Party; the Conservative coalition received over 70 percent of votes cast in 2011. Current mayor is Bjørn Ole Gleditsch from the Conservative Party, who has been mayor since 2004.
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP] Western Norway  Western Norway (; ) is the region along the Atlantic coast of southern Norway. It consists of the counties Rogaland, Vestland, and Møre og Romsdal. The region has no official or political-administrative function. The region has a population of approximately 1.4 million people. The largest city is Bergen and the second-largest is Stavanger. Historically the regions of Agder, Vest-Telemark, Hallingdal, Valdres, and northern parts of Gudbrandsdal have been included in Western Norway.  Western Norway, as well as other parts of historical regions of Norway, shares a common history with Denmark, the Faroe Islands and Iceland and to a lesser extent the Netherlands and Britain. For example, the Icelandic horse is a close relative of the Fjord horse and both the Faroese and Icelandic languages are based on the Old West Norse.  In early Norse times, people from Western Norway became settlers at the Western Isles in the Northern Atlantic, so that Orkney, Shetland, the Faroe Islands and Iceland. During the Viking Age settlements were made at the Hebrides, Man and Ireland proper.  In early modern time, Western Norway has had much emigration to the United States, Canada, and to a lesser extent to the United Kingdom. This applies particularly to the US states of Minnesota, North and South Dakota, Wisconsin, Montana, and the Canadian province of Manitoba. The Icelandic and Faroese people, and many people in the British Isles, are descendants of Norsemen and Vikings who emigrated from Western Norway during the Viking Age. On the other hand, thousands of Western Norwegians are descendants of Dutch and German traders who arrived in the 16th and the 17th centuries, especially in Bergen.   "Vestland" is also the name of a county consisting of two former counties, viz. Hordaland and Sogn og Fjordane. The two counties were re-merged after having been split in 1763 (then called Søndre Bergenhus and Nordre Bergenhus, respectively).
Who is the father of Hans Holtedahl? [SEP] the 1909-11 expeditions to Svalbard. Between 1914-17, he explored the geology of Lapland, and in 1918, he worked at Bear Island. In 1921 he led a Norwegian expedition to Novaya Zemlya. He joined the 1927-28 Antarctic expeditions of Lars Christensen, and he edited the scientific results from these expeditions . He was the doctoral advisor of Bjørn G. Andersen, whose subsequent works on Quaternary geology he greatly influenced. In the Second World War he was a member of the Norwegian resistance movement. Holtedahl died in Oslo on 26 August 1975. He married Tora Gurstad in 1912. Their children include Professor
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]  Richard III (died 10 June 1120) was count of Aversa and prince of Capua briefly in 1120 between his anointing on 27 May and his death; he was the only son and heir of Robert I of Capua. He was an infant when his father died, and he fell under the regency of his uncle, Jordan. Richard III died within a few months and, though no contemporary chronicler blames him, some modern historians have cast doubt on Jordan's innocence. Jordan did succeed unopposed to the diminished Capuan throne.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]  Richard II (died 1105/06), called the Bald, was the count of Aversa and the prince of Capua from 1090 or 1091. He was under the guardianship of Count Robert of Caiazzo until he came of age in 1093. The eldest son and successor of Jordan I of Capua and Gaitelgrima, daughter of Prince Guaimar IV of Salerno, he was named after his grandfather, Richard I of Capua. While digressing on this impressive lineage, the chronicler William of Apulia in his The Deeds of Robert Guiscard says that he "though now only a young man, already shows courage worthy of an adult." He succeeded to his father's dominions at a very young age and immediately he and his family were thrown
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]  Richard was the son of Count Bartholomew of Carinola, as attested by Peter the Deacon, who calls him Bartholomei de Caleno filius in his Chronicon Cassinense. Richard himself refers to his father in the grandiose title he used in charters in November 1123 and November 1127: "Richard, ordained by divine clemency consul and duke of the aforesaid city [of Gaeta], son of Lord Bartholomew of old, descended from the princes of Capua and the counts of Carinola of pious memory." Bartholomew was a brother of Prince Jordan I of Capua and Count Jonathan I of Carinola. Richard was thus a member of the extended Drengot family. Duke Jonathan, who preceded Richard at Gaeta, may have been the son of Count Jonathan. Graham Loud presents an alternate genealogy, making Richard a son of Count Jonathan and Duke Jonathan his nephew, being a son of an unnamed brother of Richard. Richard was married to a woman named Anna. Their son, Jonathan (died 1162×66), inherited the county of Carinola and was compensated for the loss of Gaeta, which passed to the crown after Richard's death, by the grant of the county of Conza.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]  Richard, who came from near Dieppe in the Pays de Caux in eastern Normandy, was the son of Asclettin I, count of Acerenza, younger brother of Asclettin II, count of Aversa, and nephew of Rainulf Drengot. Richard arrived in Southern Italy shortly after Rainulf's death in 1045, accompanied by forty Norman knights. When he first arrived in Aversa, according to Amatus of Montecassino Richard was well received by the people who followed him as if he were a count. He was described as strikingly handsome, a young man of open countenance who by design rode a horse so small his feet nearly touched
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]  Richard (flourished 1131–1148) was the Italo-Norman count of Rupecanina (today Raviscanina). Richard was a son of Count Robert of Alife and Gaitelgrima, younger brother of Count Rainulf II of Alife and brother-in-law of Duke William II of Apulia. He was also a distant cousin of Prince Robert II of Capua, as both belonged to the extended Drengot family. He had two sons: Andrew, who succeeded him at Rupecanina, and Roger, who later succeeded to the county of Alife. During Richard's time, feudal concepts like those of fiefs and aids were just being introduced into Capua. In 1131, Richard claimed to possess the town of Avellino and castle of Mercogliano as allods and
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP] Richard III of Capua  Richard III (died 10 June 1120) was count of Aversa and prince of Capua briefly in 1120 between his anointing on 27 May and his death; he was the only son and heir of Robert I of Capua. He was an infant when his father died, and he fell under the regency of his uncle, Jordan. Richard III died within a few months and, though no contemporary chronicler blames him, some modern historians have cast doubt on Jordan's innocence. Jordan did succeed unopposed to the diminished Capuan throne.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP] Richard III of Gaeta  Richard III (died 1140/1), also known as Richard of Caleno, was the Norman count of Carinola and last quasi-independent Duke of Gaeta, ruling from 1121 to his death. From 1113, he was regent of Gaeta for his cousin or nephew, Duke Jonathan; in 1121 he succeeded him. As duke he was a nominal vassal of the Princes of Capua, to whom he was related.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP] Richard II of Capua  Richard II (died 1105/06), called "the Bald", was the count of Aversa and the prince of Capua from 1090 or 1091. He was under the guardianship of Count Robert of Caiazzo until he came of age in 1093.  The eldest son and successor of Jordan I of Capua and Gaitelgrima, daughter of Prince Guaimar IV of Salerno, he was named after his grandfather, Richard I of Capua. While digressing on this impressive lineage, the chronicler William of Apulia in his "The Deeds of Robert Guiscard" says that he "though now only a young man, already shows courage worthy of an adult."  He succeeded to his father's dominions at a very young age and immediately he and his family were thrown out of their city by the capricious Capuans. The counts of Aquino rose in rebellion and attacked Soria, defended by Richard's uncle, Jonathan, Count of Carinola.  Richard was an exile for the next seven years (during which a Lombard named Lando IV reigned) until, upon reaching his majority, he requested the aid of his great uncle, the count of Sicily, Roger I, and his first cousin once removed, the duke of Apulia, Roger Borsa. The two Rogers came, the former in exchange for the city of Naples and the latter for Richard's recognition of Apulian suzerainty, in May 1098 and besieged Capua for forty days.  It was an interesting siege, for Pope Urban II, embroiled in a controversy with Count Roger, came down to discuss the legatine power in Sicily with him and Anselm of Aosta, the archbishop of Canterbury in self-exile from King William II of England, came to meet the pope. With the aid of Sicilian Saracens, the city fell and the prince was reinstated, Apulian suzerainty acknowledged, and the pope and the count withdrew to Salerno.  The final eight years of his reign were uneventful and he left no heir and was succeeded by his younger brother Robert when he died (in 1105 or, more probably, 1106). Though he had accepted doing homage to the Hauteville duke of Apulia, his successors did not and Capua returned to "de facto" independence under them. Richard's confessor was Bishop Bernard of Carinola.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP] Robert I of Capua  Robert I (died 1120), count of Aversa and prince of Capua from 1106, on the death of his elder and heirless brother Richard, was the second eldest son of Jordan I of Capua and Gaitelgrima, daughter of Guaimar IV of Salerno.  He tried to be the papal protector which his father and grandfather had been and he sent three hundred knights to rescue Pope Paschal II and his sixteen cardinals during their imprisonment by Emperor Henry V in 1111. However, his troops were turned back by the count of Tusculum, Ptolemy I, and never made it to their goal.  In 1114, he and Jordan of Ariano assaulted papal Benevento, but the Archbishop Landulf II made peace with them.  In 1117, Paschal fled to him and he hosted his successor, Gelasius II, later in 1118, even escorting him back to Rome with his army.  Though he did not recognise the Apulian suzerainty which his brother had been forced to acknowledge, he was nonetheless a petty and secondary power in the Mezzogiorno. He died in 1120, leaving a son and successor in the infant Richard III. An unnamed daughter of his was married to King Stephen II of Hungary in the same year.
Who is the father of Richard III of Capua? [SEP]
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP]  Ma's father is Ma Ho-ling, his mother is Chin Hou-hsiu and his wife is Christine Chow Ma. Apart from that, he has two daughters, Ma Wei-chung and Kelly Ma. Ma speaks Hunanese, Mandarin and English.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP]  Ma's son, Ma Qiwei, served as Vice President of Beijing Institute of Physical Education. His second daughter, Ma Peilun, married Mou Zuoyun, a pioneer of basketball in China. Both Ma Qiwei and Mou Zuoyun followed Ma's footsteps to study at Springfield College in the US.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP]  According to the Spring and Autumn Annals of the Ten Kingdoms, citing another work now lost, the Miscellaneous Records from a Blue Box (青箱雜記, Qingxiang Zaji), Ma Xichong was born in 912. His father was Chu's founder Ma Yin. HIs mother was not Ma Yin's wife, but was otherwise not named in historical sources, although it is known that Ma Yin's 30th son Ma Xi'e, who was older than he was, was born of the same mother. Ma Yin's 35th son Ma Xiguang, who was born of Lady Chen, was also older. In 947, then-Chu prince Ma Xifan (Ma Yin's
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Father ; Ma Yuanfeng (馬元豐), posthumously honored King Jingzhuang of Chu ; Wife ; Name unknown, mother of Ma Xizhen ; Major Concubines ; Consort Yuan, mother of Ma Xisheng and Ma Xiwang ; Lady Chen, mother of Ma Xifan ; Lady Hua, mother of Ma Xigao ; Children (Ma Yin had at least 35 sons, but the names of most of them were lost to history) ; Ma Xizhen (馬希振), became Taoist monk ; Ma Xisheng (馬希聲) (899–932), later prince ; Ma Xifan (馬希範) (899–947), later prince ; Ma Xiwang (馬希旺) (d. ~933) ; Ma Xigao (馬希杲) (poisoned by Ma Xifan 945) ; Ma Xi'e (馬希萼), later prince ; Ma Xiguang (馬希廣), later prince (died 950) ; Ma Xichong (馬希崇), later prince ; Ma Xizhan (馬希瞻) (died 949) ; Ma Xineng (馬希能) ; Ma Xiguan (馬希貫) ; Ma Xiyin (馬希隱) ; Ma Xijun (馬希濬) ; Ma Xizhi (馬希知) ; Ma Xilang (馬希朗) ; daughter, Empress Ma of Southern Han, wife of Liu Yan ; daughter, wife of Qian Chuansu (錢傳璛), son of Qian Liu the King of Wuyue
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP]  Ma Zhong had three sons: Ma Xiu (馬脩), Ma Hui (馬恢) and Ma Rong (馬融). Ma Hui's son, Ma Yi (馬義), served as the Administrator of Jianning County during the Jin dynasty.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Ma Teng  Ma Teng () (died June or July 212), courtesy name Shoucheng, was a Chinese military general and warlord who lived during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China. He controlled Liang Province (涼州; covering parts of present-day Shaanxi and Gansu) with another warlord, Han Sui. Ma Teng and Han Sui were involved in efforts to gain autonomy from the Han central government.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Xiu Xiu  Xiu Xiu ( ) is an American experimental band, formed in 2002 by singer-songwriter Jamie Stewart in San Jose, California. Currently, the line-up consists of Stewart (the only constant member since formation) and Angela Seo. The band's name comes from the film "", which has influenced the sound of their music, according to Stewart.  Xiu Xiu released their first two albums, "Knife Play" (2002) and "A Promise" (2003) on 5 Rue Christine to positive critical reception. In-between the two, the EP "Chapel of the Chimes" was released via Absolutely Kosher. The compilation album "Fag Patrol" was released shortly after, and their third studio album "Fabulous Muscles" was released in 2004. "La Forêt" was released in 2005 after Caralee McElroy joined the group, and "The Air Force" followed in 2006. 2008's "Women as Lovers" was released via the main Kill Rock Stars label in 2008, and McElroy departed the group shortly afterwards.  "Dear God, I Hate Myself" was released in 2010 and was the first Xiu Xiu album to feature longtime member Angela Seo. Following a signing to Polyvinyl and Bella Union, Xiu Xiu released "Always" (2012) and (2014). In between those two projects, the group released a Nina Simone tribute project, "Nina", in late 2013 via Graveface Records.  "Plays the Music of Twin Peaks" (2016) followed, an album consisting of covers from the "Twin Peaks" soundtracks originally as a Record Store Day exclusive release but re-released by Polyvinyl later that year. "Forget" (2017) and "Girl with Basket of Fruit" (2019) were released afterwards, and Xiu Xiu released their latest and twelfth album "Oh No" in 2021. Xiu Xiu has confirmed their thirteenth studio album has been sent off to mixing and mastering via their Instagram profile.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Cao Xiu  Cao Xiu (died 29 September 228?), courtesy name Wenlie, was a Chinese military general of the state of Cao Wei in the Three Kingdoms period of China. A distant younger relative of the warlord Cao Cao, Cao Xiu started his career in the late Eastern Han dynasty as a military officer under Cao Cao. In the early stages of the Hanzhong Campaign of 217–219, he outwitted Zhang Fei and defeated his subordinate officer Wu Lan (吳蘭). Later in his career, he became a provincial-level military commander and fought in various battles against Wei's rival state, Eastern Wu. He died in 228 shortly after the Wei defeat at the Battle of Shiting.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Mo Dao Zu Shi  Mo Dao Zu Shi () is a donghua series based on the novel of the same name written by Mo Xiang Tong Xiu (). It is produced by Tencent Penguin Pictures and B.C May Pictures. The series depicts a fictional Xianxia world where humans attempt to cultivate to a state of immortality, known as Xian (). The protagonist of the series, Wei Wuxian, due to certain circumstances, deviated from the conventional cultivation path to Xian, and eventually created Modao (the Demonic Path).  The first season, titled "Qian Chen Pian" (), aired from July 9 to October 6, 2018, on Tencent Video for 15 episodes. The second season, titled "Xian Yun Pian" (), aired from August 3 to August 31, 2019, for 8 episodes. A chibi series, titled "Mo Dao Zu Shi Q", aired from July 31, 2020, to January 29, 2021, and ran for 30 episodes. The third and final season, titled "Wán Jié Piān" (), aired from August 7 to October 16, 2021, for 12 episodes.
Who is the father of Ma Xiu? [SEP] Ma Sui  Ma Sui () (726 – September 4, 795), courtesy name Xunmei (), formally Prince Zhuangwu of Beiping (), was a Chinese military general, monarch, and politician during the Tang dynasty. He was known mostly for his battles against the rebel generals Li Lingyao (), Tian Yue, Zhu Tao, and Li Huaiguang.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP]  Theodelap or Theudelapius was one of the sons of Faroald, the first Duke of Spoleto. After the death of Ariulf in 601 or 602, Theodelap and his brother fought for the throne. Theodelap won and was crowned duke. He held the dukedom for more than half a century, until his death. His reign was nevertheless uneventful and he appears to have been largely or completely independent of royal authority throughout. He was succeeded by Atto.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] Paul the Deacon. Historia Langobardorum.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP]  Atto (or Hatto) was the Duke of Spoleto from 653 to 663, the successor of Theodelap. Nothing is known of his reign except that he was replaced by Thrasimund, Count of Capua.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] Pope John XI (b.910) ; Alberic II, who was later prince of Rome ; Constantino (d. after January 14, 945) ; Sergio, bishop of Nepi (d. before 963) ; David or Deodatus, who was the father of Pope Benedict VII He first appears as a page to Guy III of Spoleto at the Battle on the Trebbia in 889. He may have later been the count of Fermo, but whatever the case, he succeeded to Spoleto after murdering Duke Guy IV. He was recognised soon by King Berengar I, with whom he fought the Magyars in 899 or 900. Theophylact, Count of Tusculum, in the Alban Hills southeast of Rome served as palatine iudex (or
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP]  Theodicius was the Duke of Spoleto from 763 to 773. Though it is often stated that he died at the Siege of Pavia (774), he was still alive on 9 June 776, when Charlemagne confirmed the properties of the monastery of Farfa and Abbot Ingoald in the reign of his successor Hildeprand.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] Duke of Spoleto  The Duke of Spoleto was the ruler of Spoleto and most of central Italy outside the Papal States during the Early and High Middle Ages (c. 500 – 1300). The first dukes were appointed by the Lombard king, but they were independent in practice. The Carolingian conquerors of the Lombards continued to appoint dukes, as did their successors the Holy Roman Emperors. In the 12th century, the dukes of Spoleto were the most important imperial vassals in Italy.  They usually bore the title "dux et marchio", "duke and margrave" as rulers of both Spoleto and Camerino.
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] known as ""tou Satyrou"". Theophylact (son of Michael I) Theophylact or Theophylaktos (; – 15 January 849) was the eldest son of the Byzantine emperor Michael I Rhangabe () and grandson, on his mother's side, of Nikephoros I (). He was junior co-emperor alongside his father for the duration of the latter's reign, and was tonsured, castrated, and exiled to Plate Island after his overthrow, under the monastic name Eustratius. Theophylact was born to Michael Rhangabe and Prokopia . He was the couple's oldest child, but the list of his siblings given in the hagiography of Patriarch Ignatius I of
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] Theobald II of Spoleto Theobald II (923/925 – July 957/961 or 964) was the Duke of Spoleto and Margrave of Camerino from 953. He was the son of Boniface II of Spoleto and Waldrada. He married a woman also named Waldrada and was the father of Adalbert, Count of Bologna, and possibly of Willa, the wife of Tedald of Canossa. In 959, Berengar and Guy of Ivrea led an expedition against Theobald. They defeated him and captured both Spoleto and Camerino. Duke Theobald was deposed by Emperor Otto I around the year 964 because of his support for the deposed
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] Roman episode. He died besieging that city in 880. He was succeeded by his son Guy II. His brother Guy became king and emperor, as did his nephew and namesake Lambert II. The Archbishop of Rheims Fulk the Venerable, cautioned Lambert II against following his eponymous uncle's example. Lambert I of Spoleto Lambert I (died 880) was the duke and margrave ("dux et marchio") of Spoleto on two occasions, first from 859 to 871 and then from 876 to his death. Lambert was the eldest son of Guy I of Spoleto and Itta, daughter of Sico of Benevento. He married
Who is the father of Theodelap of Spoleto? [SEP] to attain prominence was Lambert's son Guy I, who was made duke of Spoleto by the Emperor Lothair I in 842. He was active in Lotharingia and Italy, even marrying a local Lombard woman, Itta (or Itana), the daughter of Sico of Benevento. His descendants continued to rule Spoleto until 897. The most famous Guidoni were Guy III and his son Lambert II. Both became kings of Italy and Holy Roman Emperors. Guy IV of Spoleto also became Duke of Benevento. One member, Fulk the Venerable, was even archbishop of Rheims, assisting Guy III in making a claim on the
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]  Ramm was conceived from the Repository for Germinal Choice, otherwise known as the Genius Sperm Bank. Born in Roosevelt Island, New York, a small island in Manhattan's East River, she was brought up by her parents Adrienne and David Ramm. Her biological father, known as "Donor Clear," is a scientist who works at a university and has published major research in his field. Ramm has been featured in performances and interviews on many media outlets, including television appearances on Anderson Cooper 360°, The View, 60 Minutes, and Good Morning America.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]  Some children conceived by IVF using anonymous donors report being troubled over not knowing about their donor parent as well any genetic relatives they may have and their family history. Alana Stewart, who was conceived using donor sperm, began an online forum for donor children called AnonymousUS in 2010. The forum welcomes the viewpoints of anyone involved in the IVF process. Olivia Pratten, a donor-conceived Canadian, sued the province of British Columbia for access to records on her donor father's identity in 2008. "I'm not a treatment, I'm a person, and those records belong to me," Pratten said. In May 2012, a court ruled in Pratten's favour, agreeing that the laws at the time discriminated against donor children and making anonymous sperm and egg donation in British Columbia illegal. In the U.K., Sweden, Norway, Germany, Italy, New Zealand, and some Australian states, donors are not paid and cannot be anonymous. In 2000, a website called Donor Sibling Registry was created to help biological children with a common donor connect with each other. In 2012, a documentary called Anonymous Father's Day was released that focuses on donor-conceived children.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]  Even sperm donors who have chosen anonymity and not to contact their offspring through a registry are now increasingly being traced by their children. Improved DNA technology has brought into question the possibility of assuring a donor's anonymity. Due to an increase in popularity of DNA testing, it has become relatively easy to identify one's sperm donor. Even matches at a 3rd or 4th cousin level can provide clues which enable one to identify their biological father. It has become common practice for donor conceived people (who were conceived via an anonymous sperm donor) to ascertain who their biological father is via this method. For example, at least one child found his biological father using his own DNA test and internet research and was able to identify and contact his anonymous donor.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]  The characters of donors are numerous. Fairy godmothers were added to Sleeping Beauty by Perrault; no such figures appeared in his source, Sole, Luna, e Talia by Giambattista Basile. In the Grimm Brothers' variant of Cinderella, the protagonist is aided not by her fairy godmother but by her dead mother, as is the heroine of the Finnish variant, The Wonderful Birch. A great variety of other figures may also take this place. In Vasilissa the Beautiful, the heroine is aided by a wooden doll that her dying mother had given her; in Rushen Coatie, by a red calf sent to her by her dead mother, a calf that
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]  musician and record producer Dave Hanner, from the country-rock duo Corbin/Hanner; they met Churton while he was recording at their dad's studio with another band. The band is named after Donora, a town nearly 30 miles south of Pittsburgh, although the band is from Gibsonia, in Pittsburgh's North Hills, nearly 20 miles north of the city. Bethany Hanner, the wife of drummer Jake, saw a road sign for the town and suggested it as the band's name. The band had never been to the town until they performed there as part of a town celebration. The band released their second album, Boyfriends, Girlfriends, in 2011, followed by their Play Nice EP in 2013, 2014's  Ha Ha Heart, and 2017's Sun to Me.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP] Sperm donation  Sperm donation is the provision by a man of his sperm with the intention that it be used in the artificial insemination or other 'fertility treatment' of a woman or women who are not his sexual partners in order that they may become pregnant by him. Where pregnancies go to full term, the sperm donor will be the biological father of every baby born from his donations.  The man is known as a sperm donor and the sperm he provides is known as 'donor sperm' because the intention is that the man will give up all legal rights to any child produced from his sperm, and will not be the legal father.  Sperm donation may also be known as 'semen donation'. A man provides his semen but the purpose of the donation is that his gametes contained within the semen, i.e. the sperm cells, be used to provide pregnancies for third parties.  Sperm donation enables a man to father a child for third-party women and is therefore categorized as a form of third-party reproduction.  The process of inseminating a woman with the sperm of a donor to enable her to have a baby is known as donor insemination or DI.  Sperm may be donated by the donor directly to the intended recipient woman or through a sperm bank or fertility clinic. Pregnancies are usually achieved by using donor sperm in assisted reproductive technology (ART) techniques which include artificial insemination (either by intracervical insemination (ICI) or intrauterine insemination (IUI) in a clinic, or intravaginal insemination at home). Less commonly, donor sperm may be used in in vitro fertilization (IVF). See also "natural insemination" below. The primary recipients of donor sperm are single women, lesbian couples, and heterosexual couples with male infertility.<ref name = TheTimes/>  Donor sperm and 'fertility treatments' using donor sperm may be obtained at a sperm bank or fertility clinic. Sperm banks or clinics may be subject to state or professional regulations, including restrictions on donor anonymity and the number of offspring that may be produced, and there may be other legal protections of the rights and responsibilities of both recipient and donor. Some sperm banks, either by choice or regulation, limit the amount of information available to potential recipients; a desire to obtain more information on donors is one reason why recipients may choose to use a known donor or private donation ("i.e.," a de-identified donor).
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP]
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP] Donald Cline  Donald Lee Cline (born December 10, 1938) is a former American medical doctor of obstetrics & gynecology, a United States Air Force veteran, and a felon. It is believed that between 1974 and 1987, Cline conceived numerous children without disclosing himself as the sperm donor to his patients. In 2017, he was convicted on six obstruction of justice felonies connected to a fertility fraud investigation. As of May 11, 2022, Cline has been confirmed as the biological father of 94 doctor-conceived offspring.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP] Suleman octuplets  The Suleman octuplets are six male and two female children conceived via in vitro fertilization (IVF) and subsequently born to Nadya Suleman on January 26, 2009, in Bellflower, California. Residing in Lancaster, California, they are the first known octuplets to survive their infancy. The extremely controversial circumstances of their high-order multiple birth has led to debates in the field of assisted reproductive technology and an investigation by the Medical Board of California of the fertility specialist involved in the case.
Who is the father of Donor? [SEP] Bertold Wiesner  Bertold Paul Wiesner (1901–1972) was an Austrian Jewish physiologist noted firstly for coining the term 'Psi' to denote parapsychological phenomena; secondly for his contribution to research into human fertility and the diagnosis of pregnancy; and thirdly for being biological father to upwards of 600 offspring by anonymously donating sperm used by his wife the obstetrician Mary Barton to perform artificial insemination on women at her private practice in the Harley Street area of London.<ref name="Fricker"/>
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP]  In 1998, he founded Skyline Developers. Together with his father, he owns 5-10% of the New York Yankees. Wilf is a member of the board of trustees of the Hun School of Princeton.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP]  Jarrod and his wife Elaine arrive in Los Angeles, California for Jarrod's best friend Terry's birthday party. They celebrate with Terry's wife, Candice, and his assistant, Denise. During a private argument about whether or not they should move, Elaine reveals she is pregnant. The next morning, blue lights descend from the sky, hypnotizing anyone who looks at them. The light causes people to become zombie-like and immobilized; they are then collected by the light machines. Jarrod and Elaine's friend Ray is taken, but Jarrod is saved when Terry tackles him. He and Terry go to the condominium roof to investigate
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP]  Composer Matthew Margeson is a colleague of Brian Tyler, who served as one of the film's executive producers.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP]  In 1912, Nicholas Lambrinides emigrated to Cincinnati from Kastoria, Greece, and brought his favorite family recipes with him. To save up the money to bring his wife to America as well, he first worked as a cook for a railroad crew and in a hotel kitchen, then opened a short-order diner. After nearly a decade, his wife was able to join him in Cincinnati and they raised five sons. By World War II, Lambrinides was working as a chef for the original Empress Chili restaurant, where he continued to tinker with a recipe which he had been developing for years. In 1949, he and three of his sons opened their own place on Glenway Avenue,
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP]  kill her. Thooku Durai arrives at the nick of time to save her. It is then revealed that Gautham Veer is the one behind this as his daughter Neha had been paralyzed while attempting suicide. Gautham is the CEO of Skyline exports and owns a range of multinational companies, and expects the first position in everything, as he used to achieve the same in his earlier days, including academics and sports. He expects the same of Neha, who is slower than Swetha by milliseconds. After Gautham threatens Neha that she would find no affection in him if she loses, she resorts to doping, which helps
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP] Beyond Skyline  Beyond Skyline is a 2017 American science fiction action film written, co-produced and directed by Liam O'Donnell in his directorial debut. It stars Frank Grillo, Bojana Novakovic, Jonny Weston, Iko Uwais, Callan Mulvey, Yayan Ruhian, Pamelyn Chee, Betty Gabriel, and Antonio Fargas. It is a sequel to the 2010 film "Skyline", set concurrently with the events of the first film.  The film was released on December 15, 2017 in the United States by Vertical Entertainment. Unlike its critically panned predecessor, "Beyond Skyline" received mixed reviews, with several critics calling it an improvement over the original.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP] Keiichi Tsuchiya  The car he drives, a Toyota AE86 Sprinter Trueno, has become one of the most popular sports cars; the car is also known as "Hachi-Roku" in Japan ("hachi-roku" meaning "eight six"); his car is also called "The Little Hachi that could." A 2-part video known as 'The Touge' produced by Pluspy documents Tsuchiya's touge driving with his AE86.  He was a consultant for the popular manga and anime series, "Initial D", of which the main character Takumi Fujiwara is a character which describes him. He also served as a stunt coordinator and stuntman on "", where he also made a cameo appearance.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP] Gary Payton  Gary Dwayne Payton Sr. (born July 23, 1968) is an American former professional basketball player who played the point guard position. Widely considered one of the greatest point guards of all time, he is best known for his 13-year tenure with the Seattle SuperSonics, where he holds franchise records in points, assists, and steals. He also played with the Milwaukee Bucks, Los Angeles Lakers, Boston Celtics, and Miami Heat. Payton won an NBA championship with the Heat in 2006. Nicknamed "the Glove" for his defensive abilities, Payton was inducted into the Naismith Basketball Hall of Fame in 2013. In October 2021, Payton was named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team.  Payton is the first point guard to win the NBA Defensive Player of the Year award, and the only point guard winner in the award's first 39 years, until Marcus Smart was selected in 2022. He was selected to the NBA All-Defensive First Team nine times, an NBA record he shares with Michael Jordan, Kevin Garnett, and Kobe Bryant. He was also a nine-time NBA All-Star and a nine-time All-NBA Team member. Payton was called "probably as complete a guard as there ever was" by Basketball Hall of Famer Gail Goodrich.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP] Larry Johnson (basketball, born 1969)  Larry Demetric Johnson (born March 14, 1969) is an American former professional basketball player who spent his career as a power forward with the Charlotte Hornets and the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). In 2008, Johnson was inducted into the Southern Nevada Sports Hall of Fame. He was then inducted into the College Basketball Hall of Fame on November 24, 2019.
Who is the father of Skyline? [SEP] Skyline (2010 film)  Skyline is a 2010 American science fiction disaster film directed by Greg and Colin Strause and co-produced and written by Liam O'Donnell. It stars Eric Balfour, Scottie Thompson, Brittany Daniel, Crystal Reed, David Zayas, and Donald Faison as a group of Los Angeles residents who witness an alien invasion while in a condominium.  The film was released on November 12, 2010, in the United States. Despite negative reviews from critics, "Skyline" was a box office success, grossing $68 million worldwide against its $10–20 million budget.  "Skyline" was followed by two sequels: "Beyond Skyline" (2017) and "Skylines" (2020). Both subsequent films were written and directed by O'Donnell, and produced by O'Donnell, the Strause brothers and Matthew E. Chausse.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]  Regal Embrace (foaled 1975 in Ontario) was a Canadian Thoroughbred racehorse. Bred by E. P. Taylor and raced under the name of his Windfields Farm, he was out of the mare Close Embrace, a daughter of Nentego who was a son of Never Say Die, winner of the 1954 Epsom Derby and St. Leger Stakes. Regal Embrace was sired by Vice Regent, a Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame inductee and a son of Northern Dancer who is regarded as the 20th century’s best sire of sires. Regal Embrace did not race as a two-year-old. At age three in 1978, he was conditioned for racing by future Canadian Horse Racing Hall of Fame trainer Mac Benson who had joined Windfields Farm that year. Ridden by another Hall of Fame inductee, Sandy Hawley, Regal Embrace defeated the great Overskate to win the 1978 Queen's Plate, Canada's most prestigious race and North America's oldest annually run stakes race. In winning, Regal Embrace equaled the stakes record set by Victoria Park in 1960. Standing at stud in 1979, Regal Embrace eventually stood at Blue Sky Farms in New York State. As a sire, he met with modest success.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]  Daughter of Regals is a fantasy novella by Stephen R. Donaldson. It tells of a young woman called Chrysalis, the nominal ruler of three kingdoms who is about to come of age. To claim her throne, Chrysalis must exhibit the magical abilities of her ancestors the Regals - who combined the attributes of human men and mythical creatures - or else her dominions will collapse into civil war. While the kings of the individual kingdoms plot against her, Chrysalis struggles to release the magic inherent within her and claim her inheritance. It was published in a stand-alone volume in 1984 by Donald M. Grant, Publisher, Inc. in an edition of 1,075 copies. All copies were signed by the author and artist. The novella first appeared in Donaldson's collection Daughter of Regals and Other Tales published earlier in 1984.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]  Regal is the son-in-law of wrestler Wilbur Snyder. Currently he is an executive with General Motors in their vehicle remarketing division.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]  Regal grew up in Newark's Ironbound neighborhood, in a Catholic family. He developed an early interest for science and the mysterious, which he attributes to television series such as Jonny Quest and later In Search of.... Discouraged from pursuing higher education by a high school guidance counselor ("kids like you don't go to college"), Regal joined the Armed Forces, serving as a tank commander.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]  Regal was born on 9 February 1992 in Takapuna, a suburb of North Shore. Aged 5, she joined the Red Beach Surf Life Saving & Squash Club on the Hibiscus Coast north of Auckland, where she later competed in surf competition. By age 14, she had qualified as a life guard. She has won numerous titles at the New Zealand Surf Life Saving Championships.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP] Regal Academy  Regal Academy is an Italian animated series co-created by Iginio Straffi and Joanne Lee. The series was produced by the Rainbow studio, which is co-owned by Straffi and Viacom. Viacom's Nickelodeon channels broadcast "Regal Academy" worldwide, while Rai YoYo aired the series in Italy. It premiered on Rai YoYo on May 22, 2016, and on Nickelodeon U.S. on August 13, 2016.  The series is a comedic reimagining of a few fairy tale characters. It originated as a dark comedy concept called "Twisted Fairy Tales" that the Rainbow team designed in 2009. After several years of changes, the show was previewed in 2013, under the working title "Royal Academy".
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP]
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP] Farseer trilogy  The "Farseer" trilogy is a series of fantasy novels by American author Robin Hobb, published from 1995 to 1997. It is often described as epic fantasy, and as a character-driven and introspective work. Set in and around the fictional realm of the Six Duchies, it tells the story of FitzChivalry Farseer (known as Fitz), an illegitimate son of a prince who is trained as an assassin. Political machinations within the royal family threaten his life, and the kingdom is beset by naval raids. Fitz possesses two forms of magic: the telepathic Skill that runs in the royal line, and the socially despised Wit that enables bonding with animals. The series follows his life as he seeks to restore stability to the kingdom.  The story contains motifs from Arthurian legend and is structured as a quest, but focuses on a stereotypically minor character in Fitz: barred by birth from becoming king, he nonetheless embraces a quest without the reward of the throne. It is narrated as a first-person retrospective. Through her portrayal of the Wit, a form of magic Fitz uses to bond with the wolf Nighteyes, Hobb examines otherness and ecological themes. Societal prejudice against the ability causes Fitz to experience persecution and shame, and he leads a closeted life as a Wit user, which scholars see as an allegory for queerness. Hobb also explores queer themes through the Fool, the gender-fluid court jester, and his dynamic with Fitz.  The "Farseer" trilogy was Margaret Astrid Lindholm Ogden's first work under the pen name Robin Hobb and met with critical and commercial success. Hobb received particular praise for her characterization of Fitz: the "Los Angeles Review of Books" wrote that the story offered "complete immersion in Fitz's complicated personality",<ref name=LA-review/> and novelist Steven Erikson described its first-person narrative as a "quiet seduction".<ref name=tor-2016/> The "Farseer" trilogy is the first of five series set in the "Realm of the Elderlings": it is followed by the "Liveship Traders" trilogy, the "Tawny Man" trilogy, the "Rain Wild" chronicles, and the "Fitz and the Fool" trilogy, which the series concluded with in 2017.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP] Scientific racism  Scientific racism, sometimes termed biological racism, is the pseudoscientific belief that empirical evidence exists to support or justify racism (racial discrimination), racial inferiority, or racial superiority. Historically, scientific racism received credence throughout the scientific community, but it is no longer considered scientific.  Scientific racism misapplies, misconstrues, or distorts anthropology (notably physical anthropology), anthropometry, craniometry, evolutionary biology, and other disciplines or pseudo-disciplines, in proposing anthropological typologies supporting the classification of human populations into physically discrete human races, some of which might be asserted to be superior or inferior to others. Scientific racism was common during the period from the 1600s to the end of World War II. Since the second half of the 20th century, scientific racism has been criticized as obsolete and discredited, yet has persistently been used to support or validate racist world-views, based upon belief in the existence and significance of racial categories and a hierarchy of superior and inferior races.  After the end of World War II, scientific racism in theory and action was formally denounced, especially in UNESCO's early antiracist statement, "The Race Question" (1950): “The biological fact of race and the myth of 'race' should be distinguished. For all practical social purposes, 'race' is not so much a biological phenomenon as a social myth. The myth of 'race' has created an enormous amount of human and social damage. In recent years, it has taken a heavy toll in human lives, and caused untold suffering.” Since that time, developments in human evolutionary genetics and physical anthropology have led to a new consensus among anthropologists that human races are a sociopolitical phenomenon rather than a biological one.  The term "scientific racism" is generally used pejoratively when applied to more modern theories, such as those in "The Bell Curve" (1994). Critics argue that such works postulate racist conclusions, such as a genetic connection between race and intelligence, that are unsupported by available evidence. Publications such as the "Mankind Quarterly", founded explicitly as a "race-conscious" journal, are generally regarded as platforms of scientific racism, because they publish fringe interpretations of human evolution, intelligence, ethnography, language, mythology, archaeology, and race.
Who is the father of Regal Embrace? [SEP] History of Protestantism  Protestantism originated from the Protestant Reformation of the 16th century. The term "Protestant" comes from the Protestation at Speyer in 1529, where the nobility protested against enforcement of the Edict of Worms which subjected advocates of Lutheranism to forfeit of all their property. However, the theological underpinnings go back much further, as Protestant theologians of the time cited both Church Fathers and the Apostles to justify their choices and formulations. The earliest origin of Protestantism is controversial; with some Protestants today claiming origin back to people in the early church deemed heretical such as Jovinian and Vigilantius.  Since the 16th century, major factors affecting Protestantism have been the Catholic Counter-Reformation which opposed it successfully especially in France, Spain and Italy. Then came an era of confessionalization followed by Rationalism, Pietism, and the Great Awakenings. Major movements today include Evangelicalism, mainline denominations, and Pentecostalism.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP]  Bertomeu is the father of Marc Bertomeu Goixens, who is a Catalan political scientist.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP]  Bertrand Albert ("Bert") Andrews Jr. was born on June 2, 1901, in Colorado Springs. His father was Bertrand A. Andrews and mother Laura Whitaker. When still a boy, the family moved to San Diego. Andrews studied at Stanford University but dropped out in 1924.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP]  Bert's son, Roberto, is a professional baseball player.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP]  The son of René Bertrand and Olive Bocandé, Emmanuel Bertrand-Bocandé was born in Nantes on July 3, 1812. He had control of Carabane from 1849–1857. He was replaced by Bourdeny. He died in Paris on November 28, 1881.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP]  eventually graduated with a B.S. and M.S. from the New York University, and later as Doctor of Education from the Columbia University. He finished sixth in the 1962 NCAA championship. At the 1963 Pan American Games he won two bronze medals; in the 400 metres and the 4 x 100 metres relay with teammates Anthony Jones, Irving Joseph and Cipriani Phillip. He competed at the 1964 Olympic Games without reaching the final, and finally at the 1966 Commonwealth Games he finished eighth in the 4 x 110 yards relay with teammates Henry Noel, Cipriani Phillip and Winston Short. In 2008, Bertrand was inducted into the Trinidad and Tobago Hall of Fame along with other well respected and deserving Trinidadian athletes. His wife Phoebe Yuille Bertrand died in 2003. His daughter, Lisa Bertrand Brathwaite, is a lawyer in New York.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP] Bertrand Russell  Bertrand Arthur William Russell, 3rd Earl Russell,  (18 May 1872 – 2 February 1970) was a British mathematician, philosopher, logician, and public intellectual. He had a considerable influence on mathematics, logic, set theory, linguistics, artificial intelligence, cognitive science, computer science and various areas of analytic philosophy, especially philosophy of mathematics, philosophy of language, epistemology, and metaphysics.  He was one of the early 20th century's most prominent logicians,  Russell was a pacifist who championed anti-imperialism and chaired the India League. He went to prison for his pacifism during World War I. Later, Russell concluded that the war against Adolf Hitler's Nazi Germany was a necessary "lesser of two evils" and also criticized Stalinist totalitarianism, condemned the United States' war on Vietnam and was an outspoken proponent of nuclear disarmament. In 1950, Russell was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature "in recognition of his varied and significant writings in which he champions humanitarian ideals and freedom of thought". He was also the recipient of the De Morgan Medal (1932), Sylvester Medal (1934), Kalinga Prize (1957), and Jerusalem Prize (1963).
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP] John Bertrand Johnson  John Bertrand Johnson (October 2, 1887 – November 27, 1970) ("né" Johan Erik Bertrand) was a Swedish-born American electrical engineer and physicist. He first explained in detail a fundamental source of random interference with information traveling on wires.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP] Bertrand Halperin  Bertrand I. Halperin (born December 6, 1941) is an American physicist, former holder of the Hollis Chair of Mathematicks and Natural Philosophy at the physics department of Harvard University.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP] Marcheline Bertrand  Marcia Lynne "Marcheline" Bertrand (May 9, 1950 – January 27, 2007) was an American actress. She was the former wife of actor Jon Voight, and the mother of actress Angelina Jolie and actor James Haven.
Who is the father of Bert Bertrand? [SEP] Plastic Bertrand  Roger François Jouret (born 24 February 1954), better known as Plastic Bertrand, is a Belgian musician, songwriter, producer, editor and television presenter, best known for the 1977 international hit single "Ça plane pour moi".
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP]  Diarmait was born around 1110, a son of Donnchadh mac Murchada, King of Leinster and Dublin. His father's paternal grandmother, Derbforgaill, was a daughter of Donnchad, King of Munster and thus a granddaughter of Brian Boru. In 1115 his father attacked Domnall Gerrlámhach, King of Dublin, but died in the ensuing battle. The citizens of Dublin buried him with the carcass of a dog, considered to be a huge insult. He had two wives (as allowed under the Brehon laws), the first of whom, Sadhbh Ní Faeláin, was mother of a daughter named Órlaith who married Domnall Mór, King of Munster. His second wife, Mór ingen Muirchertaig, was mother of Aoife / Eva of Leinster and his youngest son Conchobar Mac Murchada. He also had two other sons, Domhnall Caomhánach mac Murchada and Énna Cennselach mac Murchada (blinded 1169). Diarmait is buried in the Cathedral graveyard of Ferns village.
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP]  In 1186, a certain Adam son of Domnall, "the king's outlaw", was killed by Máel Coluim, Mormaer of Atholl, in the sanctuary of the church at Cupar, and the church burnt with 58 of Adam's associates within. It may be that this Adam mac Domnaill was a son of Domnall mac Uilleim. However, his identification is not certain. One reading would give his name as Áed mac Domnaill, and it may be that he should be counted among the MacHeths.
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP]  She was the fourth wife of Brian Boru and is thought to have been the mother of his son, Domnall, who died in 1010 or 1011. He was survived by a son, Diarmait, who died in 1051. Brian had three known daughters but it is unknown if Dub Chablaigh was the mother of any of them.
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP]  Donnchad mac Domnaill Remair (died 1089), also known as Donnchadh mac Domhnall Reamhair, was a late-eleventh-century ruler of the kingdoms of Leinster and Dublin. He was a son of Domnall Remar mac Máel na mBó. Donnchad was slain in 1089.
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP] Domhnaill Mór ; Muircheartach (succeeded his father) ; Brian ; Diarmaid ; Consaidin, Bishop of Killaloe (died 1194) (ancestor of the MacConsaidín family) He married firstly a daughter of the Mac Carthaigh Mór who died without issue. He married secondly Sadb MacGillapatrick, daughter of Donnchad mac Gilla Pátraic, King of Ossory (died 1039) and had six sons:
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP] Colcu  Colcu may refer to:
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP]
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP] Buidhe O'Neill, founder of the Clanaboy branch of the O'Neill dynasty. He was succeeded as king of Tír Chonaill by his son, Aodh. Domhnall Óg was married at least twice and had at least one son by each wife. His successor, Aodh, was the son of the daughter of Eoin Mac Suibhne, grandson of Maol Mhuire an Sparáin. Domhnall Óg's son, Toirdhealbhach, who later contested the kingship with Aodh, was the son of a daughter of Aonghus Mór, the founder of the Mac Donald dynasty who were later Lords of the Isles. Domhnall Óg's reign was marked by a great
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP] Maol Seachlainn Ó Domhnaill Maol Seachlainn Ó Domhnaill (died 1247) was King of Tír Chonaill and a member of the Uí Domhnaill. He was a son of Domhnall Mór Ó Domhnaill, King of Tír Chonaill (died 1241), a man who was married to Lasairfhíona, daughter of Cathal Crobhdhearg Ó Conchobhair, King of Connacht. Maol Seachlainn had two brothers: Gofraidh (died 1257) and Domhnall Óg (died 1281). In 1245, Maol Seachlainn ravaged North Connacht. The following year, Maurice fitz Gerald invaded Tír Chonaill, seizing several hostages and secured them within Sligo Castle. The year afterwards, Maol Seachlainn counter-attacked Maurice, and the
Who is the father of Colcu mac Domnaill? [SEP] Maol Seachlainn Ó Domhnaill Maol Seachlainn Ó Domhnaill (died 1247) was King of Tír Chonaill and a member of the Uí Domhnaill. He was a son of Domhnall Mór Ó Domhnaill, King of Tír Chonaill (died 1241), a man who was married to Lasairfhíona, daughter of Cathal Crobhdhearg Ó Conchobhair, King of Connacht. Maol Seachlainn had two brothers: Gofraidh (died 1257) and Domhnall Óg (died 1281). In 1245, Maol Seachlainn ravaged North Connacht. The following year, Maurice fitz Gerald invaded Tír Chonaill, seizing several hostages and secured them within Sligo Castle. The year afterwards, Maol Seachlainn counter-attacked Maurice, and the
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]  Isaac Bledsoe Desha (January 1, 1802 &ndash; August 13, 1828) was a 19th-century American tanner who was convicted of murdering one man in Kentucky, and confessed to murdering another in Texas. He was notable as the son of the Kentucky Governor, Joseph Desha. Shortly after his father's election as governor in 1824, Desha was accused of robbing and killing a man named Francis Baker, who was passing through Kentucky. Circumstantial evidence implicated Desha, who denied the crime. Given the heated political environment of the Old Court-New Court controversy, allies of his father claimed that the governor's political enemies had framed
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]  Isaac Bledsoe Desha was born January 1, 1802; he was one of thirteen children of Margaret (Bledsoe) and Joseph Desha. He was named for his maternal grandfather. Educated mostly in the local (Maysville, Kentucky) schools, for a time Isaac attended a school run by Mr. Bailey and boarded with Bailey's father. In October 1817, he was apprenticed to Archibald Logan, a tanner. He lived and studied with Logan until May 1821.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]  son. The governor's legislative allies passed legislation providing for a favorable change of venue for the trial, and the governor used his appointment power to ensure that sympathetic judges would hear the case. Isaac Desha was twice convicted, but both times, the judge in the case set aside the verdict on procedural grounds. While awaiting a third trial, Desha attempted suicide by slitting his throat, but doctors saved his life, reconnecting his severed windpipe with a silver tube. Shortly after the suicide attempt, Governor Desha issued a pardon for his son. Isaac Desha left Kentucky and assumed an alias. He
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]  In November 1823, the young man married Cornelia Pickett. Desha's sister Ellen had previously married Pickett's brother James.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]  session of the court, but Governor Desha, who was present at the proceedings, stood and issued a pardon for his son, as well as lambasting the judge in a lengthy impromptu speech. Some accounts hold that the governor immediately resigned upon granting the pardon, but the official records reflect no such action. Following his release, Isaac Desha traveled to Texas under an alias, where he robbed and killed another man. He was identified based on family resemblance and the silver pipe that had earlier saved his life. After being arrested, he confessed to both murders. He died of a fever the day before his trial in August 1828.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP] Isaac B. Desha  Isaac Bledsoe Desha (January 1, 1802 – August 13, 1828) was a 19th-century American tanner who was convicted of murdering one man in Kentucky, and confessed to murdering another in Texas. He was notable as the son of the Kentucky Governor, Joseph Desha. Shortly after his father's election as governor in 1824, Desha was accused of robbing and killing a man named Francis Baker, who was passing through Kentucky. Circumstantial evidence implicated Desha, who denied the crime.  Given the heated political environment of the Old Court-New Court controversy, allies of his father claimed that the governor's political enemies had framed his son. The governor's legislative allies passed legislation providing for a favorable change of venue for the trial, and the governor used his appointment power to ensure that sympathetic judges would hear the case. Isaac Desha was twice convicted, but both times, the judge in the case set aside the verdict on procedural grounds. While awaiting a third trial, Desha attempted suicide by slitting his throat, but doctors saved his life, reconnecting his severed windpipe with a silver tube. Shortly after the suicide attempt, Governor Desha issued a pardon for his son.  Isaac Desha left Kentucky and assumed an alias. He went to New Orleans. From there, he traveled with a man named Thomas Early to San Antonio, Texas. When Early went missing during their travels, Desha fell under suspicion. A former Kentuckian living in Texas recognized Desha. Arrested soon after Early's body was found, Desha confessed to the murder after being recognized by a second man from Kentucky. A day before his trial was to start, Desha died of a fever. A legend soon arose that he had faked his death and fled to Hawaii, where he married a native woman and fathered several children. Later historians have debunked that myth.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP] List of children of presidents of the United States  The following people are children of U.S. presidents, including stepchildren and alleged illegitimate children. All full names with married names are given except for Theodore Roosevelt III and Herbert Charles Hoover. Currently there are 33 confirmed, known living presidential children, the oldest Lynda Bird Johnson Robb, the youngest Barron Trump. Two presidential children, John Quincy Adams and George W. Bush, have become president in their own right.  Presidential children have been studied individually and as a class. As individuals they are more often notable in their own right than most individuals: They disproportionately circulate among political and social leaders and the wealthier classes, and they are more likely to be scrutinized as part of celebrity culture. Additionally, as individuals they frequently have significant influence on other family members. For instance, a child may have had a significant influence on the child's parent: acting as a sounding board, or having behavioral issues that affected the parent's beliefs or performance. John Scott Harrison is the only person to be both a child of a U.S. president and a parent of another U.S. president, being a son of William Henry Harrison and the father of Benjamin Harrison.  As a class, the children of presidents have also occasioned significant study. Study has generally followed two paths: The issue of what access and inclusion within the circles of power does to individuals' lives, aspirations, and outcomes; and the issue of their influence on society and politics.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP] Kamehameha I  Kamehameha I (; Kalani Paiea Wohi o Kaleikini Kealiikui Kamehameha o Iolani i Kaiwikapu kaui Ka Liholiho Kūnuiākea;  – May 8 or 14, 1819), also known as Kamehameha the Great, was the conqueror and first ruler of the Kingdom of Hawaii. The state of Hawaii gave a statue of him to the National Statuary Hall Collection in Washington, D.C. as one of two statues it is entitled to install there.
Who is the father of Isaac B. Desha? [SEP]
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  Jackson is the single father of three sons.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  public profile. His father distrusted or was jealous of George's popularity, which contributed to the development of a poor relationship between them. The birth in 1717 of George's second son, Prince George William, proved to be a catalyst for a family quarrel; the king, supposedly following custom, appointed Lord Chamberlain Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, as one of the baptismal sponsors of the child. The king was angered when George, who disliked Newcastle, verbally insulted the duke at the christening, which the duke misunderstood as a challenge to a duel. George and Caroline were temporarily confined to their apartments
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  she was pregnant with George. George said of his father, "He was a terrible father and a terrible husband." In 1995, George's youngest brother Gerald, who suffers from schizophrenia, was convicted of killing his wife in an episode of paranoia. George was a follower of the New Romantic movement, which was popular in the UK in the early 1980s. He lived in various squats around Warren Street in Central London. He and his friend Marilyn were regulars at Blitz, a London nightclub run by Steve Strange and Rusty Egan. The pop artists that inspired him were Siouxsie and the Banshees,
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  1893, George became the managing editor of the Florida Citizen at Jacksonville, Florida. He returned to New York City in 1895. Upon the death of his father on October 29, 1897, he was nominated to succeed his father as the candidate of the Jefferson Democracy Party for mayor of New York City, but he was unsuccessful. He married Marie Morelle Hitch (born January 22, 1879 ) from Orleans Parish, Louisiana on December 2, 1897 and was a special correspondent in Japan in 1906. George was elected as a Democrat to the Sixty-second and Sixty-third Congresses (March 4, 1911 &ndash; March 4, 1915). However, he was not a candidate for reelection in 1914. He engaged in literary pursuits until his death in Washington, D.C. and was interred in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  George Banks is the owner of a successful athletic shoe company called Side Kicks in San Marino, California. George narrates what he had to go through with his daughter's wedding. His 22-year-old daughter Annie, freshly graduated from college, returns home from Europe and announces that she is engaged to Bryan MacKenzie, despite their only having known each other for three months. The sudden shock turns the warm reunion into a heated argument between George and Annie, but they quickly reconcile in time for Bryan to arrive and meet them. Despite Bryan's good financial status and likeable demeanor, George takes an immediate
Who is the father of George? [SEP] George VI  George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death in 1952. He was also the last Emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949. The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stammer, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.  In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.
Who is the father of George? [SEP] Jerry Stiller  Gerald Isaac Stiller (June 8, 1927 – May 11, 2020) was an American actor and comedian. He spent many years as part of the comedy duo Stiller and Meara with his wife, Anne Meara, to whom he was married for over 60 years until her death in 2015. Stiller saw a late-career resurgence starting in 1993, playing George Costanza's father Frank on the sitcom "Seinfeld", a part which earned him an Emmy nomination. The year "Seinfeld" went off the air, Stiller began his role as the eccentric Arthur Spooner on the CBS comedy series "The King of Queens", another role that garnered widespread acclaim.  Stiller appeared together with his son Ben Stiller in films such as "Zoolander", "Heavyweights", "Hot Pursuit", "The Heartbreak Kid", and "Zoolander 2". He also performed voice-over work for films and television, including "The Lion King 1½" and "". In his later career, Stiller became known for portraying grumpy and eccentric characters who were nevertheless beloved.
Who is the father of George? [SEP] George V  George V (George Frederick Ernest Albert; 3 June 1865 – 20 January 1936) was King of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions, and Emperor of India, from 6 May 1910 until his death in 1936.  Born during the reign of his grandmother Queen Victoria, George was the second son of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, and was third in the line of succession to the British throne behind his father and his elder brother, Prince Albert Victor. From 1877 to 1892, George served in the Royal Navy, until the unexpected death of his elder brother in early 1892 put him directly in line for the throne. On Victoria's death in 1901, George's father ascended the throne as Edward VII, and George was created Prince of Wales. He became king-emperor on his father's death in 1910.  George's reign saw the rise of socialism, communism, fascism, Irish republicanism, and the Indian independence movement, all of which radically changed the political landscape of the British Empire, which itself reached its territorial peak by the beginning of the 1920s. The Parliament Act 1911 established the supremacy of the elected British House of Commons over the unelected House of Lords. As a result of the First World War (1914–1918), the empires of his first cousins Nicholas II of Russia and Wilhelm II of Germany fell, while the British Empire expanded to its greatest effective extent. In 1917, George became the first monarch of the House of Windsor, which he renamed from the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha as a result of anti-German public sentiment. He appointed the first Labour ministry in 1924, and the 1931 Statute of Westminster recognised the Empire's dominions as separate, independent states within the British Commonwealth of Nations.  George suffered from smoking-related health problems throughout much of his later reign. On his death in January 1936, he was succeeded by his eldest son, Edward VIII. Edward abdicated in December of that year and was succeeded by his younger brother Albert, who took the regnal name George VI.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]
Who is the father of George? [SEP] Father Figure (George Michael song)  "Father Figure" is a song by English singer George Michael from his debut studio album, "Faith" (1987). It was released on 28 December 1987 as the album's fourth single by Columbia Records. The song reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 11 on the UK Singles Chart. Additionally it was a top 5 hit in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands and Spain.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP]  Levan, son of Bakar (ლევან ბაქარის ძე) or Leon Bakarovich Gruzinsky (Леон Бакарович Грузинский) (6 September 1728 &ndash; 23 June 1763) was a Georgian prince of the Mukhrani branch of the royal Bagrationi dynasty. In Russia he bore the surname of Gruzinsky.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Iakob Gruzinsky ; Dimitri Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Leon Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Alexander Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Marta Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Daria Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Maria Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Sofia Bagration-Gruzinsky ; Anastasia Bagration-Gruzinsky In 1752 Levan married Princess Aleksandra Yakovlevna Sibirsky (1728-1793), whose grandmother was sister of the Tsaritsa of Russia Agafya Grushetskaya. After the marriage Prince Levan moved to the village of Brynkovo, a dowry of his wife. Prince Levan lived 13 years in marriage and left a widowed 35-year-old wife. The couple had nine children, of whom, Princess Anna married Alexander Dadiani of the Georgian noble House of Dadiani. The children of Prince Levan with Princess Aleksandra Sibirsky were:  The 19th-century artist Pyotr Gruzinsky was Levan's descendant through his son, Iakob. He was the last direct male descendant of King Vakhtang VI of Kartli and the last in the Gruzinsky line.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Петров П.Н. Князья Сибирские // История российской геральдики / Н. Дубенюк. — М: Эксмо, 2009. — С. 508. — 576 с. — (Российская императорская библиотека)
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP]  David (დავითი) (30 April 1819 – 24 September 1888) was a Georgian royal prince (batonishvili) of the Bagrationi dynasty. Son of Prince Bagrat of Georgia, grandson of King George XII of Georgia. He was known in Russia as the tsarevich David Bagratovich Gruzinsky. He was married to Anna Alekseyevna Mazurina with whom he had one son, Spiridon, who died in infancy. David died in Moscow.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP]  Prince Levan was the son of Prince Bakar of Kartli who had followed his father Vakhtang VI of Kartli, the king of Kartli, into exile to Russia in 1724. Levan was educated at the University of Moscow and, beyond Georgian and Russian, commanded Latin, French, and German languages. Like many of his family members and relatives, he then pursued a military career. He served in the elite Izmaylovsky Regiment, attaining to the rank of second major of the Imperial Russian Army. Levan was keenly interested in history and authored one of the first Georgian textbooks in world history, outlining the history of about 50 countries and peoples. Prince Levan died on 23 June 1763. He was buried at the Donskoy Monastery in Moscow.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Levan Gruzinsky  Levan, son of Bakar () or Leon Bakarovich Gruzinsky () (6 September 1728 – 23 June 1763) was a Georgian prince of the Mukhrani branch of the royal Bagrationi dynasty. In Russia he bore the surname of Gruzinsky.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Alexander Bagratovich Gruzinsky  Prince Alexander (), known in Russia as the "tsarevich" Alexander Bagratovich Gruzinsky () (1820–1865) was a Georgian prince ("batonishvili"), a descendant of the Kartli-Kakhetian branch of Bagrationi dynasty, the former royal house of Georgia. Alexander was a son of Prince Bagrat of Georgia, the 4th son of king George XII of Georgia.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Prince Bakar of Kartli  Bakar () (June 11, 1699 or April 7, 1700 – February 1, 1750) was a Georgian royal prince ("batonishvili") of the Mukhrani branch of the Bagrationi dynasty and served as regent of the Kingdom of Kartli (eastern Georgia) from September 1716 to August 1719.  He was the son of King Vakhtang VI of Kartli by his wife, Rusudan of Circassia. Vakhtang left him in charge of the government of Kartli (eastern Georgia) during his absence at the Safavid court of Persia from September 1716 to August 1719. His position was recognized by the Shah of Persia who invested him, in 1717, with the title of "janishin", a crown, sword, gold insignia, and robe of honor. At the same time, he had to nominally embrace Islam and assumed the name of Shah-Nawaz. On this occasion, he was appointed by the Shah the commander-in-chief of the Persian army and governor-general of Azerbaijan. In 1722, he was appointed as commander of the élite "gholam" corps ("qollar-aghasi"). When the Ottoman armies invaded Georgia in 1723, Bakar attempted to negotiate, but eventually followed his father in a Russian exile in July 1724. He permanently settled in Moscow where he came to be known as Tsarevich Bakar Vakhtangovich Gruzinsky (). The prince engaged in cultural enterprises initiated by his father; he helped revive the Georgian printing house in Moscow and sponsored publication of The Bible in Georgian in 1743.   Bakar was also involved in the Russian diplomatic and military service. In 1724, he was granted the village Lyskovo in hereditary possession. In November 1729, Bakar was promoted to lieutenant-general and appointed commander of artillery in the Moscow region. He died in Moscow in 1750 and was interred at the Donskoy Monastery.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] House of Mukhrani  The House of Mukhrani is a Georgian princely family that is a branch of the former royal dynasty of Bagrationi, from which it sprang early in the 16th century, receiving in appanage the domain of Mukhrani, in the Kingdom of Kartli. The family — currently the seniormost genealogical line of the entire Bagrationi dynasty — has since been known as Mukhranbatoni (), that is, "Princes ("batoni") of Mukhrani".  An elder branch of the house of Mukhrani, now extinct, furnished five royal sovereigns of Kartli between 1658 and 1724. Its descendants bore the Imperial Russian titles of Prince Gruzinsky (Грузи́нский, გრუზინსკი) and Princes Bagration (Багратион, ბაგრატიონი). Another branch, presiding in Mukhrani as "tavadi" and received among the princely nobility of Russia under the name of Bagration of Mukhrani (Bagration-Mukhransky; Багратион-Мухранский; Bagration-Mukhraneli, ბაგრატიონ-მუხრანელი), still flourishes and has, since 1957, claimed to be the Royal House of Georgia by virtue of being the genealogically eldest surviving line of the Bagrationi dynasty. David Bagration of Mukhrani has been the head of this house since January 16, 2008.
Who is the father of Levan Gruzinsky? [SEP] Giorgi Bagrationi (born 2011)  Giorgi Bagrationi (; (born 27 September 2011), is a Georgian prince of the Bagrationi dynasty which reigned until the early 19th century in Georgia and its successive realms.
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP]  Fathers have also been known to manage their children in this way, such as Joseph Jackson (patriarch of the Jackson family), Murry Wilson (father of three of The Beach Boys), Joe Simpson (father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson), Jeff Archuleta (father of American Idol runner-up David Archuleta), Mathew Knowles (father of Beyoncé and Solange Knowles), Ira David Wood III (father of Evan Rachel Wood) and Kit Culkin (father of Macaulay and Kieran Culkin). A historical example of such a father was Leopold Mozart, who recognized his son's musical ability at an early age and made the most of it. Abraham Quintanilla, Jr., father of Tejano superstar Selena, is credited with having discovered Selena's gift of singing; he rounded
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP]  it significant that the Gospels do not record that Jesus saying his mother had conceived him without a human father. Weatherhead's theory that Jesus was the son of Zechariah later became part of the teachings of Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church. Encountering it in Weatherhead's The Christian Agnostic, Unificationist theologian Young Oon Kim adopted it as the best explanation of the birth of Jesus in her work Unification Theology, a standard textbook of the church. Christian author Ruth A. Tucker comments in her book Another Gospel: "Kim's Christology is a prime example of liberal theology.... By diminishing the role of Jesus, Kim paves the way for the exaltation of Sun Myung Moon."
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP]  Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and any one to whom the Son chooses to reveal him." In Christianity, God the Father's relationship with humanity is as a father to children—in a previously unheard-of sense—and not just as the creator and nurturer of creation, and the provider for his children, his people. Thus, humans, in general, are sometimes called children of God. To Christians, God the Father's relationship with humanity is that of Creator and created beings, and in that respect he is the father of all. The New Testament says, in this sense, that the very idea of
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP]  fact, the Son of God, and Joseph is, thus, not actually Jesus' father. Legally, however, Joseph is Jesus' father and some scholars contend legal parentage is of the most importance. Ra McLaughlin argues that the central event in this passage is actually the adoption of Jesus by Joseph (signified by his naming of the child), which alone makes Jesus eligible to be the messiah from the line of David. The section begins with Abraham, who is traditionally regarded as the ancestor of all the families of the Earth. It then runs through the prominent Old Testament figures of Isaac, Jacob, and Judah. The passage also references Judah's brothers
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP]  of a visible creation. That the voice is that of the Father only is manifest from the words, This is my Son. Hilary of Poitiers: He witnesses that He is His Son not in name merely, but in very kindred. Sons of God are we many of us; but not as He is a Son, a proper and true Son, in verity, not in estimation, by birth, not adoption. Augustine: The Father loves the Son, but as a father should, not as a master may love a servant; and that as an own Son, not an adopted; therefore He adds, in
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP] Trinity  The Christian doctrine of the Trinity (, from 'threefold') In this context, the three persons define God is, while the one essence defines God is.<ref name="thelogy-sanity"/><ref> </ref> This expresses at once their distinction and their indissoluble unity. Thus, the entire process of creation and grace is viewed as a single shared action of the three divine persons, in which each person manifests the attributes unique to them in the Trinity, thereby proving that everything comes "from the Father," "through the Son," and "in the Holy Spirit."  This doctrine is called Trinitarianism and its adherents are called Trinitarians, while its opponents are called antitrinitarians or nontrinitarians. Christian nontrinitarian positions include Unitarianism, Binitarianism and Modalism.  While the developed doctrine of the Trinity is not explicit in the books that constitute the New Testament, the New Testament possesses a triadic understanding of God and contains a number of Trinitarian formulas.<ref> </ref> The doctrine of the Trinity was first formulated among the early Christians and fathers of the Church as they attempted to understand the relationship between Jesus and God in their scriptural documents and prior traditions.  Though the Trinity is mainly a Christian concept, Judaism has had parallel views, especially among writings from the kabbalah tradition.
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP] Paternity fraud  Paternity fraud, also known as misattributed paternity or paternal discrepancy, Paternity fraud is related to the historical understanding of adultery.
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP] Parable of the Two Sons  The Parable of the Two Sons is a parable told by Jesus in the New Testament, found in "Matthew" (). It contrasts the tax collectors and prostitutes who accepted the message taught by John the Baptist with the "religious" people who did not.
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP] Father figure  A father figure is usually an older man, normally one with power, authority, or strength, with whom one can identify on a deeply psychological level and who generates emotions generally felt towards one's father. Despite the literal term "father figure", the role of a father figure is not limited to the biological parent of a person (especially a child), but may be played by uncles, grandfathers, elder brothers, family friends, or others. The similar term mother figure refers to an older woman.  Several studies have suggested that positive father figures and mother figures (whether biological or not) are generally associated with healthy child development, both in boys and in girls.
Who is the father of But Why Not? [SEP] Who is a Jew?  "Who is a Jew?" ( ) is a basic question about Jewish identity and considerations of Jewish self-identification. The question pertains to ideas about Jewish personhood, which have cultural, ethnic, religious, political, genealogical, and personal dimensions. Orthodox Judaism and Conservative Judaism follow Jewish law (Halakha), deeming people to be Jewish if their mothers are Jewish or if they underwent a halakhic conversion. Reform Judaism and Reconstructionist Judaism accept both matrilineal and patrilineal descent as well as conversion. Karaite Judaism predominantly follows patrilineal descent as well as conversion.  Jewish identity is also commonly defined through ethnicity. Opinion polls have suggested that the majority of Jews see being Jewish as predominantly a matter of ancestry and culture, rather than religion.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]  The Match King is a 1932 American Pre-Code drama film made by First National Pictures, directed by William Keighley and Howard Bretherton. The film starred Warren William and Lili Damita, and follows the rise and fall of Swedish safety match tycoon Ivar Kreuger. Based on the novel by Einar Thorvaldson, the film was released in December 31, 1932.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]  Samuel Match (January 3, 1923 – January 23, 2010) was an American tennis player. He was born in Los Angeles, California. Match was ranked among the top ten amateur players in the United States in 1948, 1949, and 1950 in both singles and doubles play. Lawn Tennis and Badminton magazine ranked him as the 12th-best professional player for the year 1955.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]  Match is a 2014 American drama film written and directed by Stephen Belber, based on his 2004 play of the same name. The film stars Patrick Stewart, Carla Gugino and Matthew Lillard. The film was released on January 14, 2015, by IFC Films.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]  On January 17, 2013, Patrick Stewart, Carla Gugino, and Matthew Lillard joined the cast.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]  Match was inducted into the University of San Francisco Athletic Hall of Fame. In 1991, Match was inducted into the Rice Athletic Hall of Fame. Match was inducted in 2000 into the Southern California Jewish Sports Hall of Fame. In 2005, he was honored as one of the University of San Francisco's 75 greatest athletic legends.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP] Charlotte Flair  Ashley Elizabeth Fliehr (born April 5, 1986) is an American professional wrestler. She is currently signed to WWE, where she performs on the SmackDown brand under the ring name Charlotte Flair. She is the current SmackDown Women's Champion in her record-setting seventh reign.  She is a second-generation professional wrestler, being the daughter of Ric Flair. Flair made her first appearance in professional wrestling alongside her father in World Championship Wrestling in 1993. In 2012, she began training with WWE, and debuted in NXT the following year. and was promoted to WWE's main roster in 2015. In 2016, "PWI" readers voted Flair Woman of the Year and Top Female Professional Wrestler.  Flair is a 14-time women's world champion, having held the WWE Divas Championship once, the Raw Women's Championship a record six times, and the SmackDown Women's Championship a record seven times. She has also held the NXT Women's Championship twice and the WWE Women's Tag Team Championship once, making her a Triple Crown Champion and Grand Slam Champion. Flair also won the Royal Rumble match in 2020. In October 2016, she became the first woman (alongside Sasha Banks) to headline a WWE pay-per-view event. Her match with Becky Lynch and Ronda Rousey at 2019's WrestleMania 35 was the first time that a women's match had headlined WWE's flagship event.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP] Henry II of France  Henry II (; 31 March 1519 – 10 July 1559) was King of France from 31 March 1547 until his death in 1559. The second son of Francis I and Duchess Claude of Brittany, he became Dauphin of France upon the death of his elder brother Francis in 1536.  As a child, Henry and his elder brother spent over four years in captivity in Spain as hostages in exchange for their father. Henry pursued his father's policies in matters of art, war, and religion. He persevered in the Italian Wars against the Habsburgs and tried to suppress the Reformation, even as the Huguenot numbers were increasing drastically in France during his reign.  Under the April 1559 Peace of Cateau-Cambrésis which ended the Italian Wars, France renounced its claims in Italy, but gained certain other territories, including the Pale of Calais and the Three Bishoprics. These acquisitions strengthened French borders while the abdication of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor in January 1556 and division of his empire between Spain and Austria provided them with greater flexibility in foreign policy. Nostradamus also served King Henry as physician and astrologer.   In July 1559, Henry was injured in a jousting tournament held to celebrate the treaty and died ten days later after his surgeon, Ambroise Paré, was unable to cure the wound inflicted by Gabriel de Montgomery, the captain of his Scottish Guard. Though he died early, the succession appeared secure as he left four young sons, as well as a wife in Catherine de' Medici, to lead a capable regency during their minority. Three of those sons would all live long enough to be king themselves, but their ineffectual reigns, and the unpopularity of Catherine's regency, helped to spark the French Wars of Religion between Catholics and Protestants, and an eventual end to the House of Valois as France's ruling dynasty.
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP]
Who is the father of Match II? [SEP] Big Show  Paul Donald Wight II (born February 8, 1972) is an American professional wrestler and actor. He is signed to All Elite Wrestling (AEW) as an in-ring performer, and as a commentator for its web television show, "," under his real name of Paul Wight. He is best known for his tenure with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1995 to 1999 as The Giant and with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, later WWE) from 1999 to 2021 under the ring name (The) Big Show.  Wight played college basketball at Wichita State University before transferring to other schools. Wight began his wrestling career in 1994. In 1995 he signed with WCW, where, due to his very large frame, he was known by the ring name The Giant (and was initially introduced as "the son of André the Giant"). In early 1999, he left WCW to join the World Wrestling Federation (WWF). Between WWF/WWE and WCW, he is a seven-time world champion, having held the WCW World Heavyweight Championship twice, the WWF/WWE Championship twice, WWE's World Heavyweight Championship twice and the ECW World Heavyweight Championship once, making him the only wrestler who has won all four titles. He is also an 11-time world tag team champion, holding the WWF/World, WWE and WCW World Tag Team Championships multiple times with various partners. Having also won the Intercontinental, United States and Hardcore championships, he is the 24th Triple Crown and 12th Grand Slam winner in WWE history. He also won the 60-man battle royal at World War 3 and the 30-man André the Giant Memorial Battle Royal at WrestleMania 31. He has headlined multiple pay-per-view events for WCW and WWF/WWE since 1995, including the 2000 edition of WWE's premier annual event, WrestleMania.  Outside of professional wrestling, Wight has appeared in feature films and television series such as "Jingle All the Way", "The Waterboy", "", and two USA Network's comedy-dramas "Royal Pains", "Psych" and the action-drama "Burn Notice". He had lead roles in the WWE Studios comedy film "Knucklehead" and the Netflix sitcom "The Big Show Show".
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP]  Matthew Henry Richey (June 10, 1828 &ndash; February 21, 1911) was a Canadian politician in the 19th century. Richey was the son of Matthew Richey, Methodist minister from Nova Scotia. The family was of Ulster-Scottish ancestry, his father having immigrated to Canada. Richey studied law in Windsor, Ontario and Upper Canada, was called to the bar in 1850 and practised law in Halifax. He served on the city council and was twice elected mayor of Halifax. Richey was a Conservative politician and in 1878 he was elected to the Parliament of Canada. In 1883, he became the fifth Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, a position he held until 1888.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP]  Matthew Richey, (May 25, 1803 &ndash; October 30, 1883) was a Wesleyan Methodist minister, an educator, and an important leader in the Methodist community in Nova Scotia. He was born in Ramelton, a small town in the north of County Donegal in Ulster, Ireland, and became a Methodist at the age of 14. In 1819 he emigrated with his brother to Saint John, New Brunswick, where he was persuaded to become a candidate for the Methodist ministry. In 1820 he was appointed an assistant at St. David's in New Brunswick by the Nova Scotia District and in 1825 was admitted as a Methodist minister. He earned an M.A. degree from Wesleyan University in Middletown, Connecticut, in 1836 and was awarded an honorary doctorate of divinity (D.D.) degree from the same institution in 1847. In
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP]  Joseph Richey (October 5, 1843 – September 21, 1877) was an Anglo-Irish priest of Episcopal Church in the United States. He was known for his work among the African-American community of Baltimore and for his high church Anglicanism. His feast day, September 23, is included in the Lesser Feasts and Fasts of the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP]  1956), American singer-songwriter ; Matthew Richey (1803–1883), Irish-Canadian Methodist ; Matthew Henry Richey (1828–1911), Canadian politician ; Mary Anne Richey (1917–1983), United States federal judge ; Michael Richey (sailor) (1917–2009), English sailor, winner of the John Llewellyn Rhys Prize 1942 ; Michael Richey (scholar) (1678–1761), German scholar and poet, set the verses to Telemanns Admiralitätsmusik ; Nancy Richey (born 1942), American tennis player ; Ronald K. Richey (1926–2010), CEO of Torchmark Corporation ; Wade Richey, American football player Richey Edwards (born 1967, disappeared 1995, presumed dead 2008), Welsh musician, lyricist and rhythm guitarist of the alternative rock band Manic Street Preachers ; Richey V. Graham (1886-1972), American politician ; Richey Reneberg (born 1965), American tennis player Richey is a surname and a given name, and may refer to: Surname: Given name:
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP]  Richey married the elder daughter of Major-general Henry Smith of Bathboys, County Wicklow, who survived him with three sons and two daughters.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP] Matthew Henry Richey  Matthew Henry Richey (June 10, 1828 – February 21, 1911) was a Canadian politician in the 19th century.  Richey was the son of Matthew Richey, Methodist minister from Nova Scotia. The family was of Ulster-Scottish ancestry, his father having immigrated to Canada.  Richey studied law in Windsor, Ontario and Upper Canada, was called to the bar in 1850 and practised law in Halifax. He served on the city council and was twice elected mayor of Halifax.  Richey was a Conservative politician and in 1878 he was elected to the Parliament of Canada. In 1883, he became the fifth Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, a position he held until 1888.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP] Guy Ritchie  Guy Stuart Ritchie (born 10 September 1968)<ref name="b" /> is an English film director, producer and screenwriter. His work includes British gangster films, and the "Sherlock Holmes" films starring Robert Downey Jr.  Ritchie left school at age 15 and worked entry-level jobs in the film industry before going on to direct television commercials. In 1995, he directed a short film, "The Hard Case", followed by the crime comedy "Lock, Stock and Two Smoking Barrels" (1998), his feature-length directorial debut. He gained recognition with his second film, "Snatch" (2000), which found critical and commercial success. Following "Snatch", Ritchie directed "Swept Away" (2002), a critically panned box-office bomb starring Madonna, to whom Ritchie was married between 2000 and 2008. He went on to direct "Revolver" (2005) and "RocknRolla" (2008), which were less successful and received mixed reviews. In 2009 and 2011, he directed two box-office hits, "Sherlock Holmes" and its sequel, "", respectively. The former was nominated for Academy Awards in Best Original Score and Best Art Direction.  His other directed motion pictures are "The Man From U.N.C.L.E." (2015), which is a remake of a 1960s spy series, "" (2017) and the live-action adaptation of Disney's "Aladdin" (2019). "Aladdin" earned more than $1 billion worldwide, becoming one of the highest-grossing films in 2019, and the 34th highest-grossing film of all-time during its theatrical run. In 2020, he returned to crime comedy with "The Gentlemen" (2019), which was mostly well received and a commercial success. In 2021, he directed Jason Statham in the action film "Wrath of Man".
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP] The Gentlemen (2019 film)  The Gentlemen is a 2019 action comedy film written, directed and produced by Guy Ritchie, who developed the story along with Ivan Atkinson and Marn Davies. The film stars Matthew McConaughey, Charlie Hunnam, Henry Golding, Michelle Dockery, Jeremy Strong, Eddie Marsan, Colin Farrell, and Hugh Grant. It follows an American cannabis wholesaler in England who is looking to sell his business, setting off a chain of blackmail and schemes to undermine him.  "The Gentlemen" premiered at the Curzon Mayfair Cinema on December 3, 2019, and was released theatrically in the United Kingdom on January 1, 2020, by Entertainment Film Distributors, and in the United States on January 24, 2020, by STXfilms. It received generally positive reviews from critics and was also a commercial success, grossing $115 million worldwide against its $22 million budget. A spin-off television series is in development at Netflix with Theo James starring in a lead role, alongside Vinnie Jones, Kaya Scodelario, Giancarlo Esposito, Daniel Ings, Joely Richardson and Peter Serafinowicz as the rest of the cast.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP] Archibald McLelan  Archibald Woodbury McLelan (20 December 1824 – 26 June 1890) was a Canadian shipbuilder and politician, the sixth Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia.  McLelan was born in Londonderry, Nova Scotia, the son of member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly member Gloud Wilson McLelan. Archibald McLelan was educated in Great Village and joined his father's shipping and retail business. On his father's death in 1858 he succeeded him in the House of Assembly.  Strongly opposed to confederation with Canada, McLelan was elected as the first federal member of parliament for Colchester as an Anti-Confederate.  He reconciled himself to Confederation and was summoned to the Senate of Canada in 1869 where he sat as a Liberal-Conservative.  He resigned from the Upper House to run again for the House of Commons of Canada in an 1881 by-election and was returned to parliament as a Conservative.  McLelan served from 10 December 1885–26 January 1887 as the Minister of Finance in the second administration of Sir John A. Macdonald.  In 1842, he married Caroline Metzler. McLelan died in Halifax at the age of 65.
Who is the father of Matthew Henry Richey? [SEP] The Man from U.N.C.L.E. (film)  The Man from U.N.C.L.E. is a 2015 spy film directed by Guy Ritchie and written by Ritchie and Lionel Wigram. It is based on the 1964 MGM television series of the same name, which was created by Norman Felton and Sam Rolfe. The film stars Henry Cavill, Armie Hammer, Alicia Vikander, Elizabeth Debicki, and Hugh Grant. The film was produced by RatPac-Dune Entertainment, and Davis Entertainment, while Turner Entertainment Co., the original TV series current holder, was also involved.  In 1993, John Davis obtained the rights for a film adaptation based on the original series. However, the film fell into development limbo due to multiple script rewrites. Over the years, Matthew Vaughn, David Dobkin, and Steven Soderbergh were optioned for directing until Ritchie signed on in March 2013. The film premiered at Barcelona on August 2, 2015 and was released on August 14, 2015, by Warner Bros. It received mixed reviews from critics and was a box office bomb, grossing only $107 million worldwide on a $75–84 million budget. "Rolling Stone" listed this movie 50th on the best action movies of all time.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP]  Wang Yuankui was born in 812, during the reign of Emperor Xianzong, when his father Wang Tingcou was probably serving as an officer under Wang Chengzong, then the military governor of Chengde, whose family Wang Tingcou was related to by adoption — as Wang Tingcou's great-grandfather Wang Wugezhi (王五哥之) was an adoptive son of Wang Chengzong's grandfather Wang Wujun. After Wang Chengzong's death in 820, the imperial government briefly took over control of Chengde, but in 821, soldiers led by Wang Tingcou mutinied and killed the imperially-commissioned military governor Tian Hongzheng, and Wang Tingcou subsequently took over as military governor, with the imperial government eventually capitulating and allowing him to do so. Sometime during Wang Tingcou's rule, he made Wang Yuankui one of the military commanders at Chengde's capital Zhen Prefecture (鎮州), as well as the commander of Chengde army. When Wang Tingcou died in 834, the soldiers supported Wang Yuankui to succeed him, and in 835, then-reigning Emperor Wenzong (Emperor Xianzong's grandson) commissioned Wang Yuankui military governor. It was said that Wang Yuankui changed Wang Tingcou's defiant stance toward the imperial government, and was respectful to the imperial government, often offering tributes to the emperor.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP]  Wang Yuankui (812–854 ), formally Duke Zhong of Taiyuan (太原忠公), was a general of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty. Like his father Wang Tingcou, Wang Yuankui ruled Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) in de facto independence from the imperial government, but unlike Wang Tingcou, he was respectful to the imperial government and often followed its orders.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP]  Wang Ting-son's father Wang Ching-feng served as the magistrate of Hualien County between 1993 and 2001. The younger Wang studied mathematics at Soochow University before attending George Washington University in the United States, where he earned a master's and doctoral degree in international business. Wang returned to Taiwan, joining the National Dong Hwa University faculty.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP]  Wang was married to Chen Bijun and had six children with her, five of whom survived into adulthood. Of those who survived into adulthood, Wang's eldest son, Wenjin, was born in France in 1913. Wang's eldest daughter, Wenxing, was born in France in 1915, worked as a teacher in Hong Kong after 1948, retired to the US in 1984 and died in 2015. Wang's second daughter, Wang Wenbin, was born in 1920. Wang's third daughter, Wenxun, was born in Guangzhou in 1922 and died in 2002 in Hong Kong. Wang's second son, Wenti, was born in 1928 and was sentenced in 1946 to 18 months' imprisonment for being a hanjian. After serving his sentence, Wang Wenti settled in Hong Kong and has been involved in many education projects with the mainland since the 1980s.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP]  supplies ran out. Tingcou aided the rebel Li Tongjie against Tang forces. After the defeat of Li Tongjie in 829, Tingcou was pardoned. He died in 834 and was succeeded by his son Wang Yuankui. Although still maintaining independence, Yuankui offered tribute to the Tang court, a change from his father's stance of outright defiance. To reward Yuankui, Emperor Wenzong of Tang sent his cousin, Princess Shouan the daughter of Li Wu (sixth son of Emperor Xianzong), to marry Yuankui in 837. Yuankui participated in the Tang campaign against Zhaoyi (Changzhi). He died in 854 and was succeeded by his son Wang Shaoding. Shaoding exhibited inappropriate behavior such as heavy
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP] Wang Yuankui  Wang Yuankui (; 812–854), formally Duke Zhong of Taiyuan (), was a general of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty. Like his father Wang Tingcou, Wang Yuankui ruled Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) in "de facto" independence from the imperial government, but unlike Wang Tingcou, he was respectful to the imperial government and often followed its orders.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP] Wang Jingchong (Tang dynasty)  Wang Jingchong (; 847–883), courtesy name Meng'an (), formally Prince Zhongmu of Changshan (), was a general of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty who followed a line of his ancestors in ruling Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) as its military governor ("Jiedushi") in "de facto" independence from the imperial government.
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP] Wang Shaoyi  Wang Shaoyi (; died 866), formally the Count of Taiyuan (), was a general of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty who ruled Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) in "de facto" independence from the imperial government as its military governor ("Jiedushi").
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP] Wang Shaoding  Wang Shaoding (; died 857), courtesy name Sixian (), was a general of the Chinese dynasty Tang Dynasty, briefly ruling Chengde Circuit (成德, headquartered in modern Shijiazhuang, Hebei) in "de facto" independence from the imperial government as military governor ("Jiedushi").
Who is the father of Wang Yuankui? [SEP] He Hongjing  He Hongjing () (806?/807?-865?/866?), né He Chongshun (), formally the Duke of Chu (), was a general of the Chinese Tang Dynasty, who ruled Weibo Circuit (魏博, headquartered in modern Handan, Hebei) as its military governor ("Jiedushi") in "de facto" independence from the imperial government.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  Jackson is the single father of three sons.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  public profile. His father distrusted or was jealous of George's popularity, which contributed to the development of a poor relationship between them. The birth in 1717 of George's second son, Prince George William, proved to be a catalyst for a family quarrel; the king, supposedly following custom, appointed Lord Chamberlain Thomas Pelham-Holles, 1st Duke of Newcastle, as one of the baptismal sponsors of the child. The king was angered when George, who disliked Newcastle, verbally insulted the duke at the christening, which the duke misunderstood as a challenge to a duel. George and Caroline were temporarily confined to their apartments
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  she was pregnant with George. George said of his father, "He was a terrible father and a terrible husband." In 1995, George's youngest brother Gerald, who suffers from schizophrenia, was convicted of killing his wife in an episode of paranoia. George was a follower of the New Romantic movement, which was popular in the UK in the early 1980s. He lived in various squats around Warren Street in Central London. He and his friend Marilyn were regulars at Blitz, a London nightclub run by Steve Strange and Rusty Egan. The pop artists that inspired him were Siouxsie and the Banshees,
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  1893, George became the managing editor of the Florida Citizen at Jacksonville, Florida. He returned to New York City in 1895. Upon the death of his father on October 29, 1897, he was nominated to succeed his father as the candidate of the Jefferson Democracy Party for mayor of New York City, but he was unsuccessful. He married Marie Morelle Hitch (born January 22, 1879 ) from Orleans Parish, Louisiana on December 2, 1897 and was a special correspondent in Japan in 1906. George was elected as a Democrat to the Sixty-second and Sixty-third Congresses (March 4, 1911 &ndash; March 4, 1915). However, he was not a candidate for reelection in 1914. He engaged in literary pursuits until his death in Washington, D.C. and was interred in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]  George Banks is the owner of a successful athletic shoe company called Side Kicks in San Marino, California. George narrates what he had to go through with his daughter's wedding. His 22-year-old daughter Annie, freshly graduated from college, returns home from Europe and announces that she is engaged to Bryan MacKenzie, despite their only having known each other for three months. The sudden shock turns the warm reunion into a heated argument between George and Annie, but they quickly reconcile in time for Bryan to arrive and meet them. Despite Bryan's good financial status and likeable demeanor, George takes an immediate
Who is the father of George? [SEP] George VI  George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death in 1952. He was also the last Emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949. The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stammer, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.  In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.
Who is the father of George? [SEP] Jerry Stiller  Gerald Isaac Stiller (June 8, 1927 – May 11, 2020) was an American actor and comedian. He spent many years as part of the comedy duo Stiller and Meara with his wife, Anne Meara, to whom he was married for over 60 years until her death in 2015. Stiller saw a late-career resurgence starting in 1993, playing George Costanza's father Frank on the sitcom "Seinfeld", a part which earned him an Emmy nomination. The year "Seinfeld" went off the air, Stiller began his role as the eccentric Arthur Spooner on the CBS comedy series "The King of Queens", another role that garnered widespread acclaim.  Stiller appeared together with his son Ben Stiller in films such as "Zoolander", "Heavyweights", "Hot Pursuit", "The Heartbreak Kid", and "Zoolander 2". He also performed voice-over work for films and television, including "The Lion King 1½" and "". In his later career, Stiller became known for portraying grumpy and eccentric characters who were nevertheless beloved.
Who is the father of George? [SEP] George V  George V (George Frederick Ernest Albert; 3 June 1865 – 20 January 1936) was King of the United Kingdom and the British Dominions, and Emperor of India, from 6 May 1910 until his death in 1936.  Born during the reign of his grandmother Queen Victoria, George was the second son of Albert Edward, Prince of Wales, and was third in the line of succession to the British throne behind his father and his elder brother, Prince Albert Victor. From 1877 to 1892, George served in the Royal Navy, until the unexpected death of his elder brother in early 1892 put him directly in line for the throne. On Victoria's death in 1901, George's father ascended the throne as Edward VII, and George was created Prince of Wales. He became king-emperor on his father's death in 1910.  George's reign saw the rise of socialism, communism, fascism, Irish republicanism, and the Indian independence movement, all of which radically changed the political landscape of the British Empire, which itself reached its territorial peak by the beginning of the 1920s. The Parliament Act 1911 established the supremacy of the elected British House of Commons over the unelected House of Lords. As a result of the First World War (1914–1918), the empires of his first cousins Nicholas II of Russia and Wilhelm II of Germany fell, while the British Empire expanded to its greatest effective extent. In 1917, George became the first monarch of the House of Windsor, which he renamed from the House of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha as a result of anti-German public sentiment. He appointed the first Labour ministry in 1924, and the 1931 Statute of Westminster recognised the Empire's dominions as separate, independent states within the British Commonwealth of Nations.  George suffered from smoking-related health problems throughout much of his later reign. On his death in January 1936, he was succeeded by his eldest son, Edward VIII. Edward abdicated in December of that year and was succeeded by his younger brother Albert, who took the regnal name George VI.
Who is the father of George? [SEP]
Who is the father of George? [SEP] Father Figure (George Michael song)  "Father Figure" is a song by English singer George Michael from his debut studio album, "Faith" (1987). It was released on 28 December 1987 as the album's fourth single by Columbia Records. The song reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and number 11 on the UK Singles Chart. Additionally it was a top 5 hit in Australia, Belgium, Canada, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands and Spain.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] A Version of Now (2016)
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP]  Now, Now, formerly known as Now, Now Every Children, is an American indie rock duo formed in Blaine, Minnesota, United States, and based in Minneapolis. The band is composed of Cacie Dalager (vocals, guitar, keyboard) and Bradley Hale (drums, backing vocals).
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] Katherine Cunningham
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP]  Fathers have also been known to manage their children in this way, such as Joseph Jackson (patriarch of the Jackson family), Murry Wilson (father of three of The Beach Boys), Joe Simpson (father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson), Jeff Archuleta (father of American Idol runner-up David Archuleta), Mathew Knowles (father of Beyoncé and Solange Knowles), Ira David Wood III (father of Evan Rachel Wood) and Kit Culkin (father of Macaulay and Kieran Culkin). A historical example of such a father was Leopold Mozart, who recognized his son's musical ability at an early age and made the most of it. Abraham Quintanilla, Jr., father of Tejano superstar Selena, is credited with having discovered Selena's gift of singing; he rounded
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP]  Father is an American rapper and producer. He is the head of independent record label Awful Records.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] Lisa Marie Presley  Lisa Marie Presley (born February 1, 1968) is an American singer-songwriter. She is the only child of singer and actor Elvis Presley and actress Priscilla Presley, as well as the sole heir to her father's estate. Presley has developed a career in the music business and has issued three albums: "To Whom It May Concern" in 2003, "Now What" in 2005, and "Storm & Grace" in 2012. Her first album reached Gold certification with the Recording Industry Association of America. Presley has also released non-album singles, including duets with her father using tracks he had released before he died.  Presley has been married to musician Danny Keough, singer Michael Jackson, actor Nicolas Cage, and music producer Michael Lockwood.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] Thomas Markle  Thomas Wayne Markle (born July 18, 1944) is an American retired television lighting director and director of photography.  He received a Chicago/Midwest Emmy Award for work on the television program "Made in Chicago" in 1975 and was a co-recipient of two Daytime Emmy Awards for work on the television soap opera "General Hospital" in 1982 and 2011. His youngest child is Meghan, Duchess of Sussex.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] John Bennett Ramsey  John Bennett Ramsey (born December 7, 1943) is an American businessman, author, and father of JonBenét Ramsey, who was murdered in her Boulder, Colorado, home on December 26, 1996.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] Marvin Gay Sr.  Marvin Pentz Gay Sr. (October 1, 1914 – October 10, 1998) was an American Pentecostal minister. He was the father of American recording artists Marvin Gaye and Frankie Gaye and gained notoriety after shooting and killing his son Marvin on April 1, 1984, following an argument at their home.
Who is the father of Now What? [SEP] Father Knows Best  Father Knows Best is an American sitcom starring Robert Young, Jane Wyatt, Elinor Donahue, Billy Gray and Lauren Chapin. The series, which began on radio in 1949, aired as a television show for six seasons and 203 episodes. Created by Ed James, "Father Knows Best" follows the lives of the Andersons, a middle-class family living in the town of Springfield. The state in which Springfield is located is never specified, but it is generally accepted to be located in the Midwestern United States.  The television series debuted on CBS in October 1954. It ran for one season and was canceled by CBS but picked up by NBC, where it remained for three seasons. After cancellation by NBC in 1958, the series returned to CBS, where it aired until May 1960.
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP]  He was born in London, where his parents, Zanetta Farussi, an actress, and Gaetano Casanova, an actor and dancer, had a theatrical engagement. It was rumoured that his father was actually the Prince of Wales (who shortly after became King George II); whether for scurrilous motives or publicity is unclear. They returned to Venice when he was still young and, after his father's death in 1733, he and his siblings were placed in the care of the Grimani family. His career began in the workshops of Giovanni Antonio Guardi, a very unpleasant time for him, according to the memoirs of his brother Giacomo. Later, he moved to the studios of Antonio Joli,
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP]  in this period included both landscapes and figure compositions. His early vedutas show influence both from Canaletto and Luca Carlevarijs. On 15 February 1757, he married Maria Mattea Pagani, the daughter of painter Matteo Pagani. In 1760 his brother Gian Antonio died and his first son, Vincenzo, was born. His second son, Giacomo, was born in 1764. In 1763 he worked in Murano, in the church of San Pietro Martire, finishing a Miracle of a Dominican Saint clearly influenced by Alessandro Magnasco in its quasi-expressionistic style. Francesco Guardi's most important later works include the Doge's Feasts, a series of twelve canvases celebrating the ceremonies held in 1763 for the election of Doge Alvise IV Mocenigo. In his later years, Canaletto's influence on his art diminished, as shown by
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP]  Francesco Guardi was born in Venice into a family of nobility from Trentino. His father Domenico (born in 1678) and his brothers Niccolò and Gian Antonio were also painters, later inheriting the family workshop after the father's death in 1716. They probably all contributed as a team to some of the larger commissions later attributed to Francesco. His sister Maria Cecilia married the pre-eminent Veneto-European painter of his epoch, Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. In 1735, Guardi moved to the workshop of Michele Marieschi, where he remained until 1743. His first certain works are from 1738, for a parish at Vigo d'Anuania, in Trentino. In this period he worked alongside his older brother, Gian Antonio. The first work signed by Francesco is a Saint Adoring the Eucharist (c. 1739). His
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP]  He was born in Vienna into a family of nobility from Trentino. His father Domenico (born in 1678) was a Baroque painter. Gianantonio and his brothers Niccolò and Francesco (also painters), later inherited the family workshop after their father's death in 1716. They probably all contributed as a team to some of the larger commissions later attributed to his brother Francesco Guardi. His sister Maria Cecilia married the pre-eminent Veneto-European painter of his epoch, Giovanni Battista Tiepolo. He may have received his artistic training in Vienna, where he is first recorded in 1719, but had established a workshop in Venice by 1730. Among his first important clients was the connoisseur and collector Johann Matthias von der Schulenburg, for whom Guardi
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP]  Giacomo was born and (according to Giacomo's memoirs) Gaetano suspected that Michele Grimani (1697–1775), the theater's proprietor, was actually the father. The following year, they accepted a theatrical engagement in London. It was there they had their second son, Francesco, who became a well-known painter. It was rumored that his father was actually the Prince of Wales (who shortly after became King George II); whether for scurrilous motives or publicity is unclear. They returned to Venice in 1728 and eventually had four more children; Giovanni, who also became a painter, Faustina Maddalena (1731–1736), Maria Maddalena (1732–1800) and Gaetano Alvise (1734–1783), who became a priest; born two months after his father died of an infected abscess in
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP] Giacomo Guardi  Giacomo Guardi (13 April 1764 – 3 November 1835) was an Italian painter from Venice. The son of famous veduta painter Francesco Guardi, he continued his father's line of work, though without the same level of renown. The majority of his works are quite small views of only minor artistic interest, more akin to postcards than to his father's grand scenes, but he produced several paintings showcasing a notable level of artistic skill as well. Evaluating his legacy is somewhat complicated due to the frequency with which paintings are misattributed to him.
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP] Francesco Guardi  Francesco Lazzaro Guardi (; 5 October 1712 – 1 January 1793) was an Italian painter, nobleman, and a member of the Venetian School. He is considered to be among the last practitioners, along with his brothers, of the classic Venetian school of painting.  In the early part of his career he collaborated with his older brother Gian Antonio in the production of religious paintings. After Gian Antonio's death in 1760, Francesco concentrated on "vedute". The earliest of these show the influence of Canaletto, but he gradually adopted a looser style characterized by spirited brush-strokes and freely imagined architecture.
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP] Casanova (2005 film)  Casanova is a 2005 American romance film directed by Lasse Hallström starring Heath Ledger and loosely based on the life of Giacomo Casanova. The film premiered September 3, 2005, at the Venice Film Festival.  It received mixed reviews and flopped at the box office.
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP] Palazzo Leoni Montanari, Vicenza  The Palazzo Leoni Montanari is a late Baroque palace located in Contra’ San Corona number 25 in central Vicenza in the Veneto region of Italy. It now houses exhibition rooms, meeting places, and art collections owned by the bank Intesa Sanpaolo.
Who is the father of Giacomo Guardi? [SEP] Gian Giacomo Poldi Pezzoli  Gian Giacomo Poldi Pezzoli (Milan 27 July 1822 – 6 April 1879) was an Italian count who gathered art from Italian Renaissance and left Italy one of the first private museum which bears his name, the Museo Poldi Pezzoli.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP]  Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet PC (Ire) (1717 – August 1797) was an Irish politician. Capel was the son of Sir Thomas Molyneux, 1st Baronet and his second wife Catherine Howard,  daughter of Professor Ralph Howard. In 1738 he succeeded his brother Daniel to the title of Baronet and to all the  family estates except Castle Dillon, which he did not inherit until 1759, when the former wife of his late first cousin died. Capel graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in 1737 and received an honorary LLD in 1768. He was appointed High Sheriff of Armagh in 1744 and sat for Clogher in the Irish House of Commons from 1761 to 1768. Subsequently, he represented Dublin University to 1776 and then again for Clogher to 1783. He was invested to the Privy Council of Ireland in 1776.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP]  His first marriage was in 1747 to Elizabeth East, sister of Sir William East, 1st Baronet, they had two sons, of whom only the second, Capel, survived to adulthood. In 1757 his first wife died and in 1766 he married Elizabeth, a daughter of Lt. Gen. John Aldercron, formerly Commander in Chief in the East Indies. By her he had two sons, Thomas and John.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP]  sister of the first Earl of Wicklow, with issue of a son and daughter. The son must have died as a child. He married secondly in 1694 Catherine Howard, daughter of Ralph Howard, at that time Regius Professor of Physic at Trinity College. They had four sons and eight daughters, of whom Daniel and Capel both succeeded to the baronetcy. Thomas died in 1733 at the age of 72. He was buried in St. Audoen's Church, Dublin, and there is a fine monument to him in Armagh Cathedral by the sculptor Roubiliac, with an elaborate description of his honours and genealogy. His portrait is in Armagh Museum.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP]  Molyneux was the son of Sir Richard Molyneux, 1st Baronet of Sefton and his wife Frances, the daughter of Sir Gilbert Gerard and Anne Radcliffe. He was educated in Brazen Nose College, Oxford, he matriculated (entered) on 24 November 1609, aged 14, and was awarded his B.A. on 1 July 1612. He was admitted to Grays Inn on 2 February 1612. He was entered on the roll of the Preston Guild in 1602, 1622 and 1642. He travelled in foreign countries and became a Roman Catholic while in Rome (having been brought up a puritan). He returned to England and was knighted on 27 July 1639 by King Charles I at Berwick. In 1640 he was a Lieutenant-Colonel in the English army commanded by Earl of Northumberland (during the Second Bishops' War with Scotland). In the Civil War he suffered for the Royalist cause.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] Sir Thomas Molyneux, 1st Baronet (1661–1733) ; Sir Daniel Molyneux, 2nd Baronet ; Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet, PC (1717–1797) ; Sir Capel Molyneux, 4th Baronet ; Sir Thomas Molyneux, 5th Baronet ; Sir George King Adlercron Molyneux, 6th Baronet ; Sir Capel Molyneux, 7th Baronet ; Sir John William Henry Molyneux, 8th Baronet ; Sir John Charles Molyneux, 9th Baronet ; Sir Ernest Molyneux, 10th Baronet (died 1940) ; Extinct on the 10th baronet's death
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] George William Molyneux  George William Molyneux (28 October 1751 – 27 July 1806) was an Irish politician.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] Brabazon baronets  The Brabazon Baronetcy, of Newpark in the County of Mayo, was a title in the Baronetage of Ireland. It was created on 16 December 1797 for Anthony Brabazon. He was the eldest son and heir of George Brabazon, of New Park in County Mayo, fourth in descent from Sir Anthony Brabazon of Ballinasloe Castle, younger brother of Edward Brabazon, 1st Baron Ardee, ancestor of the Earls of Meath. His son, the second Baronet, represented County Mayo in Parliament. The title became extinct on his death in 1840. Brabazon Park was eventually inherited by Hugh Brabazon Higgins, only son of Luke Higgins of Castlebar by his second wife Catherine, sister of Sir Anthony Brabazon. He was a Captain in the 15th Hussars, and adopted the surname of Brabazon by royal licence of 15 September 1852. He died in 1864, leaving issue.
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] William St Julien Arabin  William St Julien Arabin (177315 December 1841) was a British lawyer and judge who served as the Judge-Advocate-General of the Army for a three-and-a-half-month period (6 November 183821 February 1839).
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] List of British generals and brigadiers  This is a list of people who have held general officer rank or the rank of brigadier (together now recognized as starred officers) in the British Army, Royal Marines, British Indian Army or other British military force since the Acts of Union 1707.  See also – note that a "Brigadier" is "not" classed as a "general" in the British Army, despite being a NATO 1-star equivalent rank. Prior to the mid to late-1990s, British ranks used a hyphen.  Hence, in the lists below:
Who is the father of Sir Capel Molyneux, 3rd Baronet? [SEP] John Astley (painter)  John Astley (24 June 1724 – 14 November 1787) was an English portrait painter and amateur architect, known for his "patronage among a vast circle of fashion" as well as a fortune acquired through marriage.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP]  Leif "Dodo" Claesson (born Leif John Claesson on 4 November 1959) is a Swedish photographer and actor. Born in Quebec, he currently lives and works in Stockholm. Studying at the Academy for Photography at the School of Industrial Arts in Stockholm, his first project outside of school assignments was his exhibition Parken (The Park). Claesson has participated in solo exhibitions throughout Sweden and in group exhibitions in Sweden, other parts of Europe, and the United States. He is the son of Stig Claesson.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Åke Claesson (1889–1967), Swedish film actor ; Emma Claesson (born 1977), Swedish orienteering competitor from Borlänge ; Fredrik Claesson (born 1992), Swedish professional ice hockey player ; Johan Claesson (born 1981), Swedish footballer ; Leif Claesson (born 1959), Swedish photographer and actor ; Mattias Claesson (born 1986), Swedish middle-distance runner who specializes in the 800 metres ; Michael Claesson (born 1965), Swedish Army officer ; Stig Claesson (1928–2008), Swedish writer, visual artist, and illustrator ; Viktor Claesson (born 1992), Swedish footballer Claesson may refer to:
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP]  In 1952 he married Kristina Bergenstråhle (born 1929), the daughter of Gunnar Bergenstråhle and Ebba (née de Besche). He was the father of Ulrik (born 1955), Flemming (born 1958) and Christer (born 1960).
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP]  In 1988, he married Åsa, a nurse, with whom he has three children.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP]  John Stig Claesson (2 June 1928 – 4 January 2008), also known under his signature Slas, was a Swedish writer, visual artist, and illustrator. Claesson was born on 2 June 1928 in Huddinge, south of Stockholm. He attended the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts between 1947 and 1952, during which time he began to illustrate Swedish literature such as the novels of Per Anders Fogelström. Claesson is the father of actor Leif Claesson. His son, artist Nils Claesson, published a revealing portrait of his father in the book Blåbärsmaskinen (The Blueberry Machine, 2009) which was much discussed in Sweden on its publication. Stig Claesson died on 4 January 2008 in Stockholm.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Stig Claesson  John Stig Claesson (2 June 1928 – 4 January 2008), also known under his signature Slas, was a Swedish writer, visual artist, and illustrator. Claesson was born on 2 June 1928 in Huddinge, south of Stockholm. He attended the Royal Swedish Academy of Arts between 1947 and 1952, during which time he began to illustrate Swedish literature such as the novels of Per Anders Fogelström. Claesson is the father of actor Leif Claesson. His son, artist Nils Claesson, published a revealing portrait of his father in the book "Blåbärsmaskinen" (The Blueberry Machine, 2009) which was much discussed in Sweden on its publication. Stig Claesson died on 4 January 2008 in Stockholm.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Ericsson  Ericsson has been a major contributor to the development of the telecommunications industry and is one of the leaders in 5G.  The company was founded in 1876 by Lars Magnus Ericsson and is jointly controlled by the Wallenberg family through its holding company Investor AB, and the universal bank Handelsbanken through its investment company Industrivärden. The Wallenbergs and the Handelsbanken sphere acquired their voting-strong A-shares, and thus the control of Ericsson, after the fall of the Kreuger empire in the early 1930s.  Ericsson is the inventor of Bluetooth technology.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Gothenburg  Gothenburg (; abbreviated Gbg; ) is the second-largest city in Sweden, fifth-largest in the Nordic countries, and capital of the Västra Götaland County. It is situated by the Kattegat, on the west coast of Sweden, and has a population of approximately 590,000 in the city proper and about 1.1 million inhabitants in the metropolitan area.  Gothenburg was founded as a heavily fortified, primarily Dutch, trading colony, by royal charter in 1621 by King Gustavus Adolphus. In addition to the generous privileges (e.g. tax relaxation) given to his Dutch allies from the ongoing Thirty Years' War, the king also attracted significant numbers of his German and Scottish allies to populate his only town on the western coast. At a key strategic location at the mouth of the Göta älv, where Scandinavia's largest drainage basin enters the sea, the Port of Gothenburg is now the largest port in the Nordic countries.  Gothenburg is home to many students, as the city includes the University of Gothenburg and Chalmers University of Technology. Volvo was founded in Gothenburg in 1927. The original parent Volvo Group and the now-separate Volvo Car Corporation are still headquartered on the island of Hisingen in the city. Other key companies are SKF and AstraZeneca.  Gothenburg is served by Göteborg Landvetter Airport southeast of the city center. The smaller Göteborg City Airport, from the city center, was closed to regular airline traffic in 2015.  The city hosts the Gothia Cup, the world's largest youth football tournament, and the , Europe's largest youth basketball tournament, alongside some of the largest annual events in Scandinavia. The Gothenburg Film Festival, held in January since 1979, is the leading Scandinavian film festival, with over 155,000 visitors each year.<ref name=filmfestival/> In summer, a wide variety of music festivals are held in the city, including the popular Way Out West Festival.  During 2020, Gothenburg's population increased by 3,775 inhabitants.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Bommersvik  Bommersvik is a Union college ( from Förbund meaning "union" or "association" and skola meaning "school" or "college") built by the Swedish Social Democratic Youth League (SSU) and is situated outside the municipality of Södertälje in Sweden. Parts of the college grounds encompass a conference centre and recreational facilities that are extensively used by social democratic organizations both in Sweden and abroad. An art gallery can also be found on the grounds.
Who is the father of Leif Claesson? [SEP] Hans Alfredson  Hans Folke "Hasse" Alfredson (28 June 1931 – 10 September 2017) was a Swedish actor, film director, writer, and comedian. He was born in Malmö, Sweden. He is known for his collaboration with Tage Danielsson as the duo Hasse & Tage and their production company AB Svenska Ord ("Swedish Words Ltd"). His most celebrated contribution to their brand of "humorist humanism" was his ability to extemporize wildly absurd comic situations, for example in the Lindeman dialogues.  Towards the end of his life, Alfredson made it clear that he preferred his real name, Hans, over the commonly used nickname "Hasse".  He was the father of directors Daniel and Tomas Alfredson.
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Adolf Erman (1854-1937), German Egyptologist ; Cem Erman (born Süleyman Faik Durgun in 1947–2011), Turkish film actor ; Georg Adolf Erman (1806-1877), German physicist, father of Adolf and Wilhelm Erman ; John Erman (1935–2021), American television and film director, actor and producer ; Paul Erman (1764-1851), German physicist, father of Georg Adolf Erman ; Verda Erman (1944–2014), Turkish classical pianist
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP]  Born in Berlin, he was the son of Georg Adolf Erman and grandson of Paul Erman and Friedrich Bessel. Educated at Leipzig and Berlin, he became associate professor of Egyptology at the University of Berlin in 1883 and full professor in 1892. In 1885 he was appointed director of the Egyptian department at the royal museum. In 1934 he was excluded from the faculty of the university because he was, according to the Nazi ideology, one quarter Jewish. As his family had converted to Protestantism in 1802 he and his family were not persecuted by the Nazis, but they all lost their positions. Erman and his school at Berlin had the difficult task of
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Ivo Hauptmann (1886-1973), painter, oldest son of Gerhart Hauptmann ; Horst Seeger (1926-1999), musicologist, intended
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] 22 January – Emil Erlenmeyer, chemist (born 1825) ; 2 February – Adolf Stoecker, German pastor and politician (born 1835) ; 26 February – Hermann Ebbinghaus, psychologist (born 1850) ; 24 March – Alfred Messel, German architect (born 1853) ; 28 March – Charles Gonthier, Prince of Schwarzburg-Sondershausen, nobleman (born 1830) ; 30 April – Albert Langen, German publisher (born 1869) ; 9 May – Margarete Steiff, German seamstress and company founder (born 1847) ; 13 May – Heinrich Limpricht, German chemist (born 1827) ; 19 May - Gustav zu Bentheim-Tecklenburg, German politician (born 1849) ; 24 May – Georg von Neumayer, German polar explorer (born 1826) ; 3 June - Theodor Barth, German politician and publicis (born 1849) ; 8 June – Fritz Overbeck, German painter (born 1869) ; 3 July – Hermann Johannes Pfannenstiel, German gynecologist (born 1862) ; 13 October – Julius Ruthardt, German violinist and composer (born 1841) ; 30 October – Leopold Sonnemann, German newspaper publisher (born 1831) ; 16 December – Ludwig Friedländer, German philologist (born 1824)
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP]  the Upper Saxony Region, Johann Georg Schomburg (born about 1672; died October 1745 at Dresden, interred on 9 October 1745 in the Sophienkirche in Dresden) husband of Magdalena Sophia née Erndel.  Christian Friedrich Erndel (also Erndl, Erndtel) was the last to be born of his parents' twelve children, born in Dresden in 1683. His parents were Dr. Heinrich_III._Erndel (born 17 June 1638 in Dresden, died 13 September 1693 in Dresden, buried in the Kirche zu unser lieben Frauen there), lord of the manors of Berreuth near Dippoldiswalde and Mulda near Freiberg, Royal Polish and Electoral Saxon Personal Physician, married since 4 September 1665 in Dresden to Sophia Elisabeth Erndel née Ratke (born 8 July 1642 in Dresden; died 10 June 1685
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Georg Adolf Erman  Georg Adolf Erman (12 May 1806 – 12 July 1877) was a German physicist.  Erman was born in Berlin as the son of Paul Erman. He studied natural science at the universities of Berlin and Königsberg, spent from 1828 to 1830 in a journey round the world, an account of which he published in "Reise um die Erde durch Nordasien und die beiden Ozeane" (1833-1848). The magnetic observations he made during his travels were utilized by Carl Friedrich Gauss in his theory of terrestrial magnetism. He was appointed professor of physics at Berlin in 1839, and died there in 1877.  From 1841 to 1865 he edited the "Archiv für wissenschaftliche Kunde von Russland", and in 1874 he published, with H. J. R. Petersen, "Die Grundlagen der Gauss'schen Theorie und die Erscheinungen des Erdmagnetismus" im Jahre 1829.  Erman married, Marie Bessel, daughter of Friedrich Bessel, and they were the parents of Johann Peter Adolf Erman.
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Erman  Erman Rašiti may refer to:
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Michael Ventris  Michael George Francis Ventris, (; 12 July 1922 – 6 September 1956) was an English architect, classicist and philologist who deciphered Linear B, the ancient Mycenaean Greek script. A student of languages, Ventris had pursued decipherment as a personal vocation since his adolescence. After creating a new field of study, Ventris died in a car crash a few weeks before the publication of "Documents in Mycenaean Greek", written with John Chadwick.
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Friedrich Bessel  Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel (; 22 July 1784 – 17 March 1846) was a German astronomer, mathematician, physicist, and geodesist. He was the first astronomer who determined reliable values for the distance from the sun to another star by the method of parallax. A special type of mathematical functions were named Bessel functions after Bessel's death, though they had originally been discovered by Daniel Bernoulli and then generalised by Bessel.
Who is the father of Georg Adolf Erman? [SEP] Christopher Hansteen  Christopher Hansteen (26 September 1784 – 11 April 1873) was a Norwegian geophysicist, astronomer and physicist, best known for his mapping of Earth's magnetic field.
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]  Born in Catania, Louis was the son of King Peter II and Elisabeth of Carinthia. On the day of his birth, his father announced him as his heir in a proclamation to the municipal governments (universitates) of the realm. Louis was the first male child of Peter since the death of the firstborn, Frederick, in 1325. On 12 February, Peter issued a privilege to the city of Catania exempting it from the payment of the customary hospitality to the royal court. He also credited the intervention of Catania's patron saint, Agatha, on whose feast the child was born, for the successful delivery of a boy. Louis was
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]  of Anne Errard d'Avaugour; ; Charlotte de Fleury (6 February 1697 – 1750) – wife of Gérard Michel de La Jonchère. Louise Émilie de Vautedard (1694–1719) – wife of Nicolas Mesnager.  Thus, through his two older sons Burgundy and Anjou, Louis ensured respectively the continuation of the senior Bourbon line on the throne of France and the establishment of the Spanish Bourbon dynasty. Besides his unnamed child with Mme de Choin, Louis had two illegitimate daughters with Françoise Pitel: With another mistress, Marie Anne Caumont de La Force, he had one daughter: Legend has it that a prophecy told at his birth said that Louis would be "son of a king, father of a king, but never a king". This was thought to be fulfilled as he was the son of Louis XIV of France and father of Philip V of Spain, but did not himself become king.
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]  Louis Gaston was born August 25, 1825 in Pointe-à-Pitre (Guadeloupe), and came to France in 1832, where he studied for the military, following in his father's footsteps. At age 10, he lost his mother, and at age 19, his father. This double wound marked the beginning of his conversion. In 1848, as a young officer—the only practicing Catholic in his class—he discerned a call to become a monk of Solemes, but realized that it was in the world that he was called to serve God. At age 23, he married Anaïs, a girl of 17 years, with whom he began a family that would grow to include 12 children. He was a loving husband and father, showed great love for the Eucharist, and shone especially in
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]  him, took care of him, dressed him, comforted him, and scolded him. Many times, more than Marie Antoinette, she was a true mother for him'." Some have suggested that Axel von Fersen, who was romantically linked with Marie Antoinette, was the father of her son. The fact that Louis Charles was born exactly nine months after he returned to court was noted, but this theory was debunked by most scholars, who reject it, observing that the time of his conception corresponded perfectly in the time that Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette had spent a lot of time together. Marie Antoinette, who gained
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]  Louis Stanislas Xavier, styled Count of Provence from birth, was born on 17 November 1755 in the Palace of Versailles, a younger son of Louis, Dauphin of France, and his wife Maria Josepha of Saxony. He was the grandson of the reigning King Louis XV. As a son of the Dauphin, he was a Fils de France. He was christened Louis Stanislas Xavier six months after his birth, in accordance with Bourbon family tradition, being nameless before his baptism. By this act, he also became a Knight of the Order of the Holy Spirit. The name of Louis was bestowed because
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP]
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP] Louis XV  Louis XV (15 February 1710 – 10 May 1774), known as Louis the Beloved (), was King of France from 1 September 1715 until his death in 1774. He succeeded his great-grandfather Louis XIV at the age of five. Until he reached maturity (then defined as his 13th birthday) on 15 February 1723, the kingdom was ruled by his grand-uncle Philippe II, Duke of Orléans, as Regent of France. Cardinal Fleury was chief minister from 1726 until his death in 1743, at which time the king took sole control of the kingdom.  His reign of almost 59 years (from 1715 to 1774) was the second longest in the history of France, exceeded only by his predecessor, Louis XIV, who had ruled for 72 years (from 1643 to 1715). In 1748, Louis returned the Austrian Netherlands, won at the Battle of Fontenoy of 1745. He ceded New France in North America to Great Britain and Spain at the conclusion of the disastrous Seven Years' War in 1763. He incorporated the territories of the Duchy of Lorraine and the Corsican Republic into the Kingdom of France. Historians generally criticize his reign, citing how reports of his corruption embarrassed the monarchy, while his wars drained the treasury and produced little gain. A minority of scholars dispute this view, arguing that it is the result of revolutionary propaganda. His grandson and successor Louis XVI would inherit a kingdom in need of financial and political reform which would ultimately lead to the French Revolution of 1789.
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP] Louis Hennepin  Father Louis Hennepin, O.F.M. baptized Antoine, (; 12 May 1626 – 5 December 1704) was a Belgian Roman Catholic priest and missionary of the Franciscan Recollet order (French: "Récollets") and an explorer of the interior of North America.
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP] Louis, Dauphin of France (1729–1765)  Louis, Dauphin of France (Louis Ferdinand; 4 September 1729 – 20 December 1765) was the elder and only surviving son of King Louis XV of France and his wife, Queen Marie Leszczyńska. As a son of the king, Louis was a "fils de France". As heir apparent, he became Dauphin of France. However, he died before he could ascend the throne. Three of his sons became kings of France: Louis XVI (reign in 1774–1792), Louis XVIII (1814–1815, again in 1815–1824) and Charles X (1824–1830).
Who is the father of Louis? [SEP] Louis Gigante  Louis Robert Gigante (March 19, 1932October 19, 2022) was an American priest of the Catholic Church and a Bronx community activist, serving as one of the borough's New York City Council members. He founded the South East Bronx Community Organization (SEBCO).
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP]  Source:
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP]  John Donkin (1802–1854) was a British engineer. He was a son of Bryan Donkin and worked in this father's company in Bermondsey, primarily on paper-making equipment. He married Caroline Hawes, granddaughter of William Hawes, notable as founder of the Royal Humane Society. Caroline Hawes was the sister of Sir Benjamin Hawes, brother-in-law of Isambard Kingdom Brunel. John Donkin was the father of Bryan Donkin Junior and grandfather of Sydney Donkin. He was first cousin of William Fishburn Donkin.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP]  Raised in Sandhoe, Northumberland, his father was a surveyor and land agent. Donkin initially began work in the same business, and worked from September 1789 to February 1791 as bailiff at Knole House and estate for the Duke of Dorset.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP]  in 1898, resigning from his hospital posts. He was a member of the Royal Commission on Control of the Feeble-Minded in 1904–1908 and, upon retiring as commissioner, became medical adviser to the Prison Commission. He was interested in the psychology of crime, and viewed prisoners as if they were patients. He presented the Harveian Oration at the Royal College of Physicians in 1910, on the topic of "Inheritance of Mental Characters". He was appointed a knight bachelor in 1911, the honour being conferred by George V at St James's Palace on 23 February. A prominent member of the Savile Club, Donkin was also a rationalist and was involved with Ray Lankester in investigating and exposing spiritualists. He was friends with Karl Marx, and treated Marx, his wife Jenny von Westphalen, and their daughter Eleanor Marx. He died on 26 July 1927 in London.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP]  Michael Charles Donkin (29 August 1951 &ndash; 6 December 2007) was an English reporter and journalist for BBC News. Donkin was born in Southend-on-Sea, Essex in 1951. He went to school at the Northern Grammar School for Boys, in North End, Portsmouth. He landed his first job with the East Anglian Daily Times in Ipswich. In 1975, he joined the BBC as a freelancer. Shortly after he joined The Today Programme on BBC Radio 4, he was praised for good work and quickly progressed to television. He worked on both the 6 O'clock and 10 O'clock news as a world affairs correspondent. During his time with the BBC, Donkin made several short 5 to 6 minute films. He was most pleased with the film about a bed and breakfast farm. One year after Donkin started with the BBC, he married his wife Catriona. They had three daughters and one son together. Donkin had a short battle with cancer. On 6 December 2007 he died from the illness.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP] John Donkin  John Donkin (1802–1854) was a British engineer. He was a son of Bryan Donkin and worked in this father's company in Bermondsey, primarily on paper-making equipment. He married Caroline Hawes, granddaughter of William Hawes, notable as founder of the Royal Humane Society. Caroline Hawes was the sister of Sir Benjamin Hawes, brother-in-law of Isambard Kingdom Brunel.  John Donkin was the father of Bryan Donkin Junior and grandfather of Sydney Donkin. He was first cousin of William Fishburn Donkin.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP] Bryan Donkin  Bryan Donkin FRS FRAS (22 March 1768 – 27 February 1855) developed the first paper making machine and created the world's first commercial canning factory. These were the basis for large industries that continue to flourish today. Bryan Donkin was involved with Thomas Telford's Caledonian Canal, Marc and Isambard Brunel's Thames Tunnel, and Charles Babbage's computer. He was an advisor to the government and held in high esteem by his peers.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP] Sydney Donkin  Sydney Bryan Donkin (24 June 1871 – 12 November 1952) was a British civil engineer. His parents were Bryan Donkin Junior and Georgina Dillon. Donkin was educated at University College, London before beginning work for Sulzer Brothers, mechanical engineers, later the Sulzer company. Whilst based at this company's headquarters in Switzerland he became interested in Alpine climbing and spent much of his spare time climbing the nearby peaks. He was a founding member of the Climbers' Club and served on their committee in 1908 and later as vice-president and president.  He later became an assistant to Alexander Kennedy, the electrical engineer, and worked on several large hydro-electric dams including the first Lower Aswan Dam and the Owen Falls Dam. He also sat on the general board of the National Physical Laboratory, as chairman of the Association of Consulting Engineers, president of the Association of Supervisory Electrical Engineers, president of the Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) and president of the Smeatonian Society of Civil Engineers. He was a proponent of social housing and built the first houses for the ICE Benevolent fund at Haywards Heath.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP] The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild  The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild is a 2022 computer-animated adventure comedy film directed by John C. Donkin, in his feature directorial debut, with a screenplay by Jim Hecht, Ray DeLaurentis, and William Schifrin. It serves as a spin-off of the "Ice Age" franchise and is set after the events of "". The film stars the voices of Simon Pegg (reprising his role as Buck Wild), Vincent Tong, Aaron Harris, Utkarsh Ambudkar, and Justina Machado also starring in the film.  It follows the two opossum brothers Crash and Eddie and their adventure to becoming independent possums alongside the titular character Buck Wild. Originally planned to be a television series, "The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild" was redeveloped into a feature-length film. Produced by 20th Century Animation and released under the Walt Disney Pictures label, it was released on January 28, 2022, as a Disney+ original film.  It received generally negative reviews from critics who felt that it lacked a primary focus on the titular character and criticized its recasting of voice actors, animation quality, the absence of Scrat, and the decision to produce the film without the involvement of Blue Sky Studios. The possibility of a sequel to the film was discussed by executive producer Lori Forte.
Who is the father of John Donkin? [SEP] Jack Dormand  John Donkin Dormand, Baron Dormand of Easington (27 August 1919 – 18 December 2003) was a British educationist and Labour Party politician from the coal mining area of Easington in County Durham, in the north-east of England. He was Member of Parliament (MP) for the Easington constituency from 1970 until his retirement in 1987.  Described as an "old-style centre-right socialist", Dormand was a working-class child who progressed through grammar school education to study at Oxford and Harvard to a career as an educational administrator before entering Parliament at the age of 50, where he was noted as an advocate for education and for mining areas. He never achieved ministerial office, but as a skilled administrator he played a significant role as a government whip in the 1970s, and as Chair of the Parliamentary Labour Party when the party was in opposition in the 1980s. and a staunch republican, he reluctantly accepted a life peerage when he retired from the House of Commons and was an active working peer until his death 16 years later.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP]  Searching is a 2018 American mystery thriller computer screen film directed by Aneesh Chaganty in his feature debut and written by Chaganty and Sev Ohanian. Set entirely on computer screens and smartphones, the film follows a father (John Cho) trying to find his missing 16-year-old daughter (Michelle La) with the help of a police detective (Debra Messing). It is the first mainstream Hollywood thriller headlined by an Asian-American actor. The film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018, and was theatrically released in the United States on August 31, 2018, by Screen Gems. The film was a financial and critical success, grossing over $75 million worldwide against a $880,000 budget and receiving praise for its direction, acting, unique visual presentation and unpredictable storyline. At the Independent Spirit Awards, Cho was nominated for Best Male Lead. A sequel is in development.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP]  In Search of My Father: The Journey of a Child Holocaust Survivor  is a 2010 book by a Holocaust survivor Paul Drexler. The book chronicles the author's research about his father's death during a British bombardment days before German capitulation.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP]  The original Arabic title is الطريق which means "the way" or "the quest" and is very close to the word used by Muslim sufists [called Sufist Ways الطرق الصوفية] for the different "ways" or "schools" by which to approach God. The name of the hero's father in the novel "Sayed Sayed Al-Rehaimi" is reminiscent of an omnipotent supreme being, the name in Arabic means literally "Master Master the Compassionate", his last name being very close to al-Rahim, one of the 99 names of God in the Quran. Saber's search for him seems to be a thinly disguised search for God or Meaning. This theme of search for meaning or way of existence is comparable to other novels by Mahfouz, notably Children of Gebelawi (1959), The Beggar (1965),  Heart of the Night (1975)  and The Harafish (1977).
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP]  The Search is a 2014 French drama film written and directed by Michel Hazanavicius and produced by Hazanavicius and Thomas Langmann. The film is a reiteration of the Oscar-winning post-Holocaust drama also called The Search, directed by Fred Zinnemann, in which a compassionate westerner helps a lost child find what is left of his family amidst the chaotic flood of post-war civilian refugees. In the 1948 film, the backdrop is post-war Berlin; The Search (2014) takes place in the "front lines of the Russian invasion of Chechnya" during the first year of the Second Chechen War (1999-2009). The Search was selected to compete for the Palme d'Or in the main competition section at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP]  Fathers have also been known to manage their children in this way, such as Joseph Jackson (patriarch of the Jackson family), Murry Wilson (father of three of The Beach Boys), Joe Simpson (father of Jessica and Ashlee Simpson), Jeff Archuleta (father of American Idol runner-up David Archuleta), Mathew Knowles (father of Beyoncé and Solange Knowles), Ira David Wood III (father of Evan Rachel Wood) and Kit Culkin (father of Macaulay and Kieran Culkin). A historical example of such a father was Leopold Mozart, who recognized his son's musical ability at an early age and made the most of it. Abraham Quintanilla, Jr., father of Tejano superstar Selena, is credited with having discovered Selena's gift of singing; he rounded
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP] Searching (film)  Searching is a 2018 mystery thriller film directed by Aneesh Chaganty in his feature debut, written by Chaganty and Sev Ohanian and produced by Timur Bekmambetov. Set entirely on computer screens and smartphones, the film follows a father (John Cho) trying to find his missing 16-year-old daughter (Michelle La) with the help of a police detective (Debra Messing). This was the first mainstream Hollywood thriller headlined by an Asian-American actor.  A co-production between the United States and Russia, the film premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 21, 2018, and was theatrically released in the United States on August 24, 2018, by Sony Pictures Releasing. The film was a financial and critical success, grossing over $75 million worldwide against a $880,000 budget and receiving praise for its direction, acting, unique visual presentation and unpredictable storyline. At the Independent Spirit Awards, Cho was nominated for Best Male Lead.  A sequel, "Missing", is set to release on January 20, 2023.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP] Father Christmas (film series)  The Father Christmas film series is an American/Canadian trilogy, starring Erin Krakow and Niall Matter, based on the novels of Robin Jones Gunn. The films were originally broadcast in the USA on Hallmark Movies & Mysteries, as part of the channels' "Miracles of Christmas" seasonal programming.  The films follow the story of Miranda Chester (Krakow), as she visits the cozy sundown town of Carlton Heath, Vermont, in search of the truth about her parentage. Whilst there she meets, and falls in love with, local lawyer/hotelier Ian McKendrick(Matter).
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP] Searching for Bobby Fischer  Searching for Bobby Fischer, released in the United Kingdom as Innocent Moves, is a 1993 American drama film written and directed by Steven Zaillian in his directorial debut. Starring Max Pomeranc in his film debut, Joe Mantegna, Joan Allen, Ben Kingsley, and Laurence Fishburne, it is based on the life of prodigy chess player Joshua Waitzkin, played by Pomeranc, and adapted from the book of the same name by Joshua's father, Fred Waitzkin. The film was nominated for Best Cinematography in the 66th Academy Awards.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP] Finding Nemo  Finding Nemo is a 2003 American computer-animated comedy-drama adventure film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Directed by Andrew Stanton with co-direction by Lee Unkrich, the screenplay was written by Stanton, Bob Peterson, and David Reynolds from a story by Stanton. The film stars the voices of Albert Brooks, Ellen DeGeneres, Alexander Gould, Willem Dafoe, and Geoffrey Rush. It tells the story of an overprotective clownfish named Marlin who, along with a regal blue tang named Dory, searches for his missing son Nemo. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and comes to terms with Nemo taking care of himself.  Pre-production of the film began in early 1997. The inspiration for "Finding Nemo" sprang from multiple experiences, going back to Stanton's childhood, when he loved going to the dentist to see the fish tank, assuming that the fish were from the ocean and wanted to go home. To ensure that the movements of the fish in the film were believable, the animators took a crash course in fish biology and oceanography. Thomas Newman composed the score for the film.  Premiering in Los Angeles on May 18, "Finding Nemo" was released on May 30, 2003. It received widespread acclaim from critics, who praised the visual elements, screenplay and characters that has been cited as funny to both young moviegoers and their parents. It also became the highest-grossing animated film at the time of its release, and was the second-highest-grossing film of 2003, earning a total of $871 million worldwide by the end of its initial theatrical run. The film was also nominated for three Academy Awards, winning one for Best Animated Feature, becoming the first Pixar film to do so.  "Finding Nemo" is the best-selling DVD title of all time, with over 40 million copies sold , and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar's own "Toy Story 3" overtook it. The film was re-released in 3D in 2012. In 2008, the American Film Institute named it as the 10th greatest American animated film as part of their 10 Top 10 lists.<ref name=AFITop10 /> A sequel, "Finding Dory", was released in June 2016.
Who is the father of Searching? [SEP] August Rush  August Rush is a 2007 musical drama film directed by Kirsten Sheridan and produced by Richard Barton Lewis. The screenplay is by Nick Castle and James V. Hart, with a story by Paul Castro and Castle. A co-production between the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea, it involves an 11-year-old musical prodigy living in an orphanage who runs away to New York City. He begins to unravel the mystery of who he is, all while his mother is searching for him and his father is searching for her. The many different sounds and rhythms he hears throughout his journey culminate in a major instrumental composition, which concludes the film ("August's Rhapsody").
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]  The Union State Bank headquartered in Kewaunee, Wisconsin, United States, traces its history since 1910, when the Farmers and Merchants State Bank was established in Kewaunee. The Union State Bank was established in 1934 after the merger of the Farmers and Merchants with the Dairyman’s State Bank. In 1987 the Green Bay, Wisconsin office was added and in 2004 the Two Rivers, Wisconsin office was added. In 2015, Baylake Corp agreed to buy NEW Bancshares, the parent company of Union State Bank, for $9.7 million.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]  The Union State Bank, headquartered in Pell City, Alabama, United States, was established in 1903. In 2010, the bank had 15 offices in Alabama and Florida.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]  The State Bank of Wisconsin is a six-story Neoclassical-styled office building built in 1906 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]  The Portal State Bank on Main St. in Portal, North Dakota, United States, was built in 1903 in Classical Revival architecture. Also known as the Union Bank of Portal, it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1996. It was very well built and is well preserved, and is unusual in Burke County for its architecture.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]  Union Savings Bank, is a full-service Community bank and wealth management institution serving customers in Western Connecticut. The bank is headquartered in Danbury, Connecticut and was founded in 1866.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP] Union State Bank  Union State Bank may refer to one of the following banks in the United States:
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP] Union State Bank, Wisconsin  The Union State Bank headquartered in Kewaunee, Wisconsin, United States, traces its history since 1910, when the Farmers and Merchants State Bank was established in Kewaunee. The Union State Bank was established in 1934 after the merger of the Farmers and Merchants with the Dairyman's State Bank. In 1987 the Green Bay, Wisconsin office was added and in 2004 the Two Rivers, Wisconsin office was added.  In 2015, Baylake Corp agreed to buy NEW Bancshares, the parent company of Union State Bank, for $9.7 million.
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP]
In what country is Union State Bank, Wisconsin? [SEP] Wisconsin  Wisconsin () is a state in the upper Midwestern United States. Wisconsin is the 25th-largest state by total area and the 20th-most populous. It is bordered by Minnesota to the west, Iowa to the southwest, Illinois to the south, Lake Michigan to the east, Michigan to the northeast, and Lake Superior to the north.  The bulk of Wisconsin's population live in areas situated along the shores of Lake Michigan. The largest city, Milwaukee, anchors its largest metropolitan area, followed by Green Bay and Kenosha, the third- and fourth-most-populated Wisconsin cities respectively. The state capital, Madison, is currently the second-most-populated and fastest-growing city in the state. Wisconsin is divided into 72 counties and as of the 2020 census had a population of nearly 5.9 million.  Wisconsin's geography is diverse, having been greatly impacted by glaciers during the Ice Age with the exception of the Driftless Area. The Northern Highland and Western Upland along with a part of the Central Plain occupy the western part of the state, with lowlands stretching to the shore of Lake Michigan. Wisconsin is third to Ontario and Michigan in the length of its Great Lakes coastline. The northern portion of the state is home to the Chequamegon-Nicolet National Forest.  At the time of European contact the area was inhabited by Algonquian and Siouan nations, and today is home to eleven federally recognized tribes. During the 19th and early 20th centuries, many European settlers entered the state, most of whom emigrated from Germany and Scandinavia. Wisconsin remains a center of German American and Scandinavian American culture, particularly in respect to its cuisine, with foods such as bratwurst and kringle. Wisconsin is home to one UNESCO World Heritage Site, comprising two of the most significant buildings designed by Wisconsin-born architect Frank Lloyd Wright: his studio at Taliesin near Spring Green and his Jacobs I House in Madison.  The state is one of the nation's leading dairy producers and is known as "America's Dairyland"; it is particularly famous for its cheese. The state is also famous for its beer, particularly and historically in Milwaukee, most notably as the headquarters of the Miller Brewing Company. Wisconsin has some of the most permissive alcohol laws in the country and is well known for its drinking culture. Its economy is dominated by manufacturing, healthcare, information technology, and agriculture—specifically dairy, cranberries and ginseng. Tourism is also a major contributor to the state's economy. The gross domestic product in 2020 was $348 billion.
In what country is Tina? [SEP]  This Is Not Art (TiNA) is a national festival of new media and arts organized in Newcastle, New South Wales, Australia each year over the October long weekend since 1998. TiNA is dedicated to the work and ideas of artistic communities not generally included in other major Australian arts festivals or institutions. The program includes the festivals Electrofringe, the National Young Writers' Festival, Critical Animals, and Crack Theatre Festival.
In what country is Tina? [SEP]  Source:
In what country is Tina? [SEP]  Samanta Poļakova (born 31 March 1989), better known as Samanta Tīna, is a Latvian singer, songwriter and composer. After having attempted to represent her country in the Eurovision Song Contest six times earlier (in 2012, 2013, 2014, 2016 and 2019), she won the national selection Supernova in 2020 and was to represent Latvia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2020 that was to be held in Rotterdam, the Netherlands with the song "Still Breathing". Due to the contest being canceled, she represented her country in 2021 instead with a new song, "The Moon Is Rising". She had also competed in the Lithuanian preselection twice (in 2013 and 2017), and in the Lithuanian version of The Voice.
In what country is Tina? [SEP]  Tina (born Martina Csillagová; 11 March 1984) is a Slovak singer. She won the Best Female Singer prize at the Slávik Awards in 2011 and 2012. Tina co-hosted the 2011 edition of Czech/Slovak television series SuperStar alongside Leoš Mareš. She returned to host alongside Mareš in the first two series of The Voice Česko Slovensko.
In what country is Tina? [SEP]  Tina Bara (born 18 March 1962, in Kleinmachnow) is a German photographer who began her career in the German Democratic Republic Her work was featured in several exhibitions at key galleries and museums, including the Galerie Eigen + Art, Leipzig and the Kunsthalle Erfurt. In MutualArt’s artist press archive, Tina Bara is featured in Interference, a piece from the Revista Arta in 2020. Before reunification, she was in touch with peace movement in the German Democratic Republic.
In what country is Tina? [SEP] Tina Turns the Country On!  Tina Turns the Country On! is the debut solo studio album by Tina Turner, released in September 1974 on the United Artists Records. Released while Turner was still a member of the Ike & Tina Turner Revue, it was an attempt by her husband, Ike Turner, to expose her to a wider audience. Although the album did not chart, it earned Turner a Grammy Award nomination in the "Best R&B Vocal Performance, Female" category.
In what country is Tina? [SEP] Tina Turner  Tina Turner (born Anna Mae Bullock; November 26, 1939) is an American-born Swiss retired singer and actress. Widely referred to as the "Queen of Rock 'n' Roll", she rose to prominence as the lead singer of the Ike & Tina Turner Revue before launching a successful career as a solo performer.  Turner began her career with Ike Turner's Kings of Rhythm in 1957. Under the name Little Ann, she appeared on her first record, "Boxtop", in 1958. In 1960, she debuted as Tina Turner with the hit duet single "A Fool in Love". The duo Ike & Tina Turner became "one of the most formidable live acts in history". They released hits such as "It's Gonna Work Out Fine", "River Deep – Mountain High", "Proud Mary", and "Nutbush City Limits" before disbanding in 1976.  In the 1980s, Turner launched "one of the greatest comebacks in music history". Her 1984 multi-platinum album "Private Dancer" contained the hit song "What's Love Got to Do with It", which won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year and became her first and only number one song on the "Billboard" Hot 100. At age 44, she was the oldest female solo artist to top the Hot 100.<ref name="retired" /> Her chart success continued with "Better Be Good to Me", "Private Dancer", "We Don't Need Another Hero (Thunderdome)", "Typical Male", "The Best", "I Don't Wanna Fight", and "GoldenEye". During her Break Every Rule World Tour in 1988, she set a then-Guinness World Record for the largest paying audience (180,000) for a solo performer.<ref name="upi88" /> Turner also acted in the films "Tommy" (1975), "Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome" (1985), and "Last Action Hero" (1993). In 1993, "What's Love Got to Do with It", a biographical film adapted from her autobiography "I, Tina: My Life Story", was released. In 2009, Turner retired after completing her , which is the 15th highest-grossing tour of the 2000s. In 2018, she became the subject of the jukebox musical "Tina".  Having sold over 100 million records worldwide, Turner is one of the best-selling recording artists of all time. She has received 12 Grammy Awards, which include eight competitive awards, three Grammy Hall of Fame awards, and a Grammy Lifetime Achievement Award. She is the first black artist and first woman to be on the cover of "Rolling Stone". "Rolling Stone" ranked her among the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Singers of All Time. She is also a 2005 recipient of the Kennedy Center Honors and Women of the Year award.
In what country is Tina? [SEP] Wine Country (film)  Wine Country is a 2019 American comedy film produced and directed by Amy Poehler, in her feature directorial debut. It was written by Emily Spivey and Liz Cackowski. Its story follows a group of long time friends who take a vacation to Napa Valley as a birthday getaway. It stars Poehler, Maya Rudolph, Rachel Dratch, Ana Gasteyer, Paula Pell, Emily Spivey, Jason Schwartzman, and Tina Fey. The film was released in select theaters on May 8, 2019, and digitally released for streaming on May 10, 2019, by Netflix.
In what country is Tina? [SEP] La Tomatina  La Tomatina () is a festival that is held in the Valencian town of Buñol, in the east of Spain from the Mediterranean, in which participants throw tomatoes and get involved in a tomato fight purely for entertainment purposes. Since 1945 it has been held on the last Wednesday of August, during a week of festivities in Buñol.
In what country is Tina? [SEP] Nutbush City Limits  "Nutbush City Limits" is a semi-autobiographical song written by Tina Turner which commemorates her rural hometown of Nutbush in Haywood County, Tennessee, United States. Originally released as a single on United Artists Records in August 1973, it is one of the last hits that husband-wife R&B duo Ike & Tina Turner released together.  In the years since, "Nutbush City Limits" has been performed by a number of other artists, most notably Bob Seger and The Silver Bullet Band, and Turner herself has re-recorded several different versions of the song.  As an unincorporated rural community, Nutbush does not have official city limits; rather, its general boundaries are described by signs reading "Nutbush, Unincorporated" which are posted on the local highway (Tennessee State Route 19).  A line dance to the song, called the "Nutbush", created in the 1970s disco era, took off in Australia during the 1980s, and it has seen sustained success to this day, including gaining viral popularity internationally through TikTok.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP]  Dasht Jeyhun (, also Romanized as Dasht Jeyḩūn; also known as Jaihūn, and Jeyḩūn) is a village in Kohurestan Rural District, in the Central District of Khamir County, Hormozgan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 245, in 44 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP]  Dashteh (also known as Dashta) is a village in Jeyhun Dasht Rural District, Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,456, in 317 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP]  Jeyhun Dasht Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 8,719, in 1,946 families. The rural district has 15 villages.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP]  Dasht-e Naomid (Persian: دشت ناامید), also Dasht-e Namid, Dasht-e Namadī, or Dasht-e Nāomīd, is a desert in Central Asia, on the Afghanistan-Iran border. It can also be considered part of the Dasht-e Kavir, a large desert in Iran.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP]  Jezlan Dasht (, also Romanized as Jezlān Dasht and Jazlān Dasht; also known as Dzhezrandasht, Jazārandasht, and Jezrāndasht) is a village in Darram Rural District, in the Central District of Tarom County, Zanjan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 443, in 115 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP] Dasht Jeyhun  Dasht Jeyhun (, also Romanized as Dasht Jeyḩūn; also known as Jaihūn, and Jeyḩūn) is a village in Kohurestan Rural District, in the Central District of Khamir County, Hormozgan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 245, in 44 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP] Jeyhun Dasht Rural District  Jeyhun Dasht Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 8,719, in 1,946 families. The rural district has 15 villages.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP] Jeyhunabad, Hamadan  Jeyhunabad (, also Romanized as Jeyḩūnābād; also known as Jehūnābād) is a village in Jeyhun Dasht Rural District, Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,077, in 264 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP] Buyaqchi  Buyaqchi (, also Romanized as Būyāqchī and Buiakhchi; also known as Bowyākhchī, Boyaghchi, and Boyāqchī) is a village in Jeyhun Dasht Rural District, Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 179, in 34 families.
In what country is Dasht Jeyhun? [SEP] Dashteh, Hamadan  Dashteh (; also known as Dashta) is a village in Jeyhun Dasht Rural District, Shara District, Hamadan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,456, in 317 families.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]  Sar Giz (, also Romanized as Sar Gīz; also known as Sar Gīs, Sarkīs, and Sarkīz) is a village in Oshnavieh-ye Jonubi Rural District, Nalus District, Oshnavieh County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 448, in 75 families.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]  Lezgins live there.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]  Sar-Sar is located 39 km northeast of Kizlyar (the district's administrative centre) by road. Chernyayevka and Gruzinsky are the nearest rural localities.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]  Arani sari received Intellectual Property Rights Protection or Geographical Indication (GI) status.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]  Sar-Sar (Сар-Сар) is a rural locality (a selo) in Chernyayevsky Selsoviet, Kizlyarsky District, Republic of Dagestan, Russia. The population was 538 as of 2010. There are 4 streets.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP] Sar Giz  Sar Giz (, also Romanized as Sar Gīz; also known as Sar Gīs, Sarkīs, and Sarkīz) is a village in Oshnavieh-ye Jonubi Rural District, Nalus District, Oshnavieh County, West Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 448, in 75 families.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP] COVID-19  Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a contagious disease caused by a virus, the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The first known case was identified in Wuhan, China, in December 2019. The disease quickly spread worldwide, resulting in the COVID-19 pandemic.  The symptoms of COVID‑19 are variable but often include fever, cough, headache, fatigue, breathing difficulties, loss of smell, and loss of taste. Symptoms may begin one to fourteen days after exposure to the virus. At least a third of people who are infected do not develop noticeable symptoms. Of those who develop symptoms noticeable enough to be classified as patients, most (81%) develop mild to moderate symptoms (up to mild pneumonia), while 14% develop severe symptoms (dyspnea, hypoxia, or more than 50% lung involvement on imaging), and 5% develop critical symptoms (respiratory failure, shock, or multiorgan dysfunction). Older people are at a higher risk of developing severe symptoms. Some people continue to experience a range of effects (long COVID) for months after recovery, and damage to organs has been observed. Multi-year studies are underway to further investigate the long-term effects of the disease.<ref name=":5" />  COVID‑19 transmits when people breathe air contaminated by droplets and small airborne particles containing the virus. The risk of breathing these is highest when people are in close proximity, but they can be inhaled over longer distances, particularly indoors. Transmission can also occur if contaminated fluids are splashed or sprayed in the eyes, nose, or mouth, or, more rarely, via contaminated surfaces. People remain contagious for up to 20 days and can spread the virus even if they do not develop symptoms.  Testing methods for COVID-19 to detect the virus's nucleic acid include real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRTPCR), transcription-mediated amplification, and reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RTLAMP)<ref name="CDC testing" /><ref name="CDC NAATs" /> from a nasopharyngeal swab.<ref name="pmid32621814" />  Several COVID-19 vaccines have been approved and distributed in various countries, which have initiated mass vaccination campaigns. Other preventive measures include physical or social distancing, quarantining, ventilation of indoor spaces, use of face masks or coverings in public, covering coughs and sneezes, hand washing, and keeping unwashed hands away from the face. While work is underway to develop drugs that inhibit the virus, the primary treatment is symptomatic. Management involves the treatment of symptoms through supportive care, isolation, and experimental measures.
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]
In what country is Sar Giz? [SEP]
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP]  Pir Hayati-ye Sofla (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Soflá; also known as Pīr Ḩayātī, Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Pā’īn, Pīriāī, and Pīryal) is a village in Mahidasht Rural District, Mahidasht District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 210, in 47 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP]  Pir Hayati (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī) is a village in Robat Rural District, in the Central District of Khorramabad County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 165, in 31 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP]  Pir Hayati-ye Vosta (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Vosţá) is a village in Mahidasht Rural District, Mahidasht District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 91, in 21 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP]  Pir Hayati (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī) is a village in Miyan Darband Rural District, in the Central District of Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 201, in 47 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP]  Tazehnab-e Mohammad Baqer (, also Romanized as Tāzehnāb-e Moḩammad Bāqer; also known as Pīr Ḩayāmī and Pīr Ḩayātī) is a village in Shaban Rural District, in the Central District of Nahavand County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 18, in 4 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP] Pir Hayati-ye Sofla  Pir Hayati-ye Sofla (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Soflá; also known as Pīr Ḩayātī, Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Pā’īn, Pīriāī, and Pīryal) is a village in Mahidasht Rural District, Mahidasht District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 210, in 47 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP] Pir Hayati, Lorestan  Pir Hayati (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī) is a village in Robat Rural District, in the Central District of Khorramabad County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 165, in 31 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP] Pir Hayati-ye Olya  Pir Hayati-ye Olya (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī-ye ‘Olyā; also known as Kahfri, Kofrī, and Pīr Hayātī-ye Bālā) is a village in Mahidasht Rural District, Mahidasht District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 91, in 20 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP] Pir Hayati-ye Vosta  Pir Hayati-ye Vosta (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī-ye Vosţá) is a village in Mahidasht Rural District, Mahidasht District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 91, in 21 families.
In what country is Pir Hayati? [SEP] Pir Hayati, Kermanshah  Pir Hayati (, also Romanized as Pīr Ḩayātī) is a village in Miyan Darband Rural District, in the Central District of Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 201, in 47 families.
In what country is Dell? [SEP] New South Wales, Australia ; Beijing, China ; Bangalore, India ; Tokyo, Japan ; United Kingdom ; Germany ; Netherlands ; France ; Italy ; Turkey ; Spain Wyse Technology is headquartered in Silicon Valley in Santa Clara, California. It also has development centers in India, and Beijing, China. It has sales offices around the United States and in:
In what country is Dell? [SEP]  to meet the conditions, and they sold the North Carolina plant to Herbalife. Most of the work that used to take place in Dell's U.S. plants was transferred to contract manufacturers in Asia and Mexico, or some of Dell's own factories overseas. The Miami, Florida, facility of its Alienware subsidiary remains in operation, while Dell continues to produce its servers (its most profitable products) in Austin, Texas. On January 8, 2009, Dell announced the closure of its manufacturing plant in Limerick, Ireland, with the loss of 1,900 jobs and the transfer of production to its plant in Łodź in Poland.
In what country is Dell? [SEP]  Dell Technologies Inc. is an American multinational technology company headquartered in Round Rock, Texas. It was formed as a result of the September 2016 merger of Dell and EMC Corporation (which later became Dell EMC). Dell's products include personal computers, servers, smartphones, televisions, computer software, computer security and network security, as well as information security services. Dell ranked 35th on the 2018 Fortune 500 rankings of the largest United States corporations by total revenue.
In what country is Dell? [SEP]  Dell, a privately owned multinational company based in the United States, is one of the largest technological corporations in the world, employing more than 103,300 people worldwide. However, the call center operation for the OptiPlex desktops and Latitude laptops was moved back to the United States. Dell moved its customer services and technical support centre to Bangalore in India in 2001, and set their second site in Hyderabad in 2003. However, the company found that the brand started to lose its reputation when the language and culture barrier between the customers and the employees hindered communication, especially when the employee in the Bangalore centre had professional skills but weren't experienced enough to service customers. The lack of training time on outsourcing and resolving these cultural barriers could have contributed to the strategy's lack of success. The outcome was that even though Dell's market continued to grow, customer satisfaction declined. One of the positive outcomes was that Dell started to understand the importance of outsourcing based on the average need and cost. Forbes also concluded that some factors that may lead to failure for companies using outsourcing services, such as desire for in-house expertise and marketplace pressures.
In what country is Dell? [SEP]  PCs configured to customer specifications from its US facilities was no longer as efficient or competitive with high-volume Asian contract manufacturers as PCs became powerful low-cost commodities. Dell closed plants that produced desktop computers for the North American market, including the Mort Topfer Manufacturing Center in Austin, Texas (original location) and Lebanon, Tennessee (opened in 1999) in 2008 and early 2009, respectively. The desktop production plant in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, received US$280 million in incentives from the state and opened in 2005, but ceased operations in November 2010. Dell's contract with the state required them to repay the incentives for
In what country is Dell? [SEP] Dell  Dell is an American based technology company. It develops, sells, repairs, and supports computers and related products and services. Dell is owned by its parent company, Dell Technologies.<ref name="statesman" />  Dell sells personal computers (PCs), servers, data storage devices, network switches, software, computer peripherals, HDTVs, cameras, printers, and electronics built by other manufacturers. The company is known for how it manages its supply chain and electronic commerce. This includes Dell selling directly to customers and delivering PCs that the customer wants. Dell was a pure hardware vendor until 2009 when it acquired Perot Systems. Dell then entered the market for IT services. The company has expanded storage and networking systems. It is now expanding from offering computers only to delivering a range of technology for enterprise customers.  Dell is a publicly-traded company (), as well as a component of the NASDAQ-100 and S&P 500. It is the 3rd largest personal computer vendor as of January 2021. Dell is ranked 31st on the Fortune 500 list in 2022, up from 76th in 2021. It is also the sixth-largest company in Texas by total revenue, according to "Fortune" magazine. It is the second-largest non-oil company in Texas.   In 2015, Dell acquired the enterprise technology firm EMC Corporation. Dell and EMC became divisions of Dell Technologies. Dell EMC sells data storage, information security, virtualization, analytics, and cloud computing.
In what country is Dell? [SEP]
In what country is Dell? [SEP] Alienware  Alienware is an American computer hardware subsidiary of Dell. Their product range is dedicated to gaming computers which can be identified by their alien-themed designs. Alienware was founded in 1996 by Nelson Gonzalez and Alex Aguila, and is currently led by Vivian Lien. The development of the company is also associated with Frank Azor, Arthur Lewis, Joe Balerdi, and Michael S. Dell. The company's corporate headquarters is located in The Hammocks, Miami, Florida.
In what country is Dell? [SEP] List of laptop brands and manufacturers  This is a list of laptop brands and manufacturers.
In what country is Dell? [SEP] Round Rock, Texas  Round Rock is a city in the U.S. state of Texas, in Williamson County (with a small part in Travis County), which is a part of the Greater Austin metropolitan area. Its population is 119,468 as of the 2020 census.  The city straddles the Balcones Escarpment, a fault line in which the areas roughly east of Interstate 35 are flat and characterized by having black, fertile soils of the Blackland Prairie, and the west side of the Escarpment, which consists mostly of hilly, karst-like terrain with little topsoil and higher elevations and which is part of the Texas Hill Country. Located about north of downtown Austin, Round Rock shares a common border with Austin at Texas State Highway 45.  In August 2008, "Money" named Round Rock as the seventh-best American small city in which to live. Round Rock was the only Texas city to make the Top 10. In a CNN article dated July 1, 2009, Round Rock was listed as the second-fastest-growing city in the country, with a population growth of 8.2% in the preceding year.  According to the 2008 ratings from the Texas Education Agency, the Round Rock Independent School District ranks among the best in the state. Of 42 schools within it, 12 were rated exemplary and 11 were recognized.  Round Rock is perhaps best known as the international headquarters of Dell Technologies, which employs about 16,000 people at its Round Rock facilities. The presence of Dell along with other major employers, an economic development program, major retailers such as IKEA, a Premium Outlet Mall, and the mixed-use La Frontera center, have changed Round Rock from a sleepy bedroom community into its own self-contained "super suburb".
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP]  Bandarakottai (or Pandarakottai) is a Village Panjayat. Which is situated in Panruti taluk, Cuddalore District, Tamil Nadu in India.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP]  Bandrakottai is a Village in Panruti Taluk in Cuddalore District of Tamil Nadu State, India. It is located 29 km west of the District headquarters Cuddalore. 6 km from Panruti. 188 km from State capital Chennai Bandarakottai and postal head office is Puthupet (CDL). Nearest villages are Anguchettypalayam (2 km), Manapakkam (2 km), Pudhupettai (1.5 km), Panapakkam (2 km), Chinnapettai (3 km) are the nearby areas or places toBandrakottai. Panruti, Viluppuram, Nellikuppam, Cuddalore are the nearby Cities toBandarakottai. This Place is in the border of the Cuddalore District and Pondicherry District. Pondicherry District Nettapakkam is East towards this place. Also it is in the Border ofother district Villupuram. It is near to the Pondicherry State Border.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] Chinna-Ammapettai, ; Ammapettai, ; Vaaniyampalayam, ; Kuchippalayam
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP]  Thenkaraikottai is a ruined castle dedicated to lord Vishnu. This castle is the only one built on land and not on a hill like others and is situated near Pappireddipatti, Dharmapuri district, Tamil Nadu, India. There is a temple which is dedicated to lord Rama (avatar of vishnu) with beautiful architecture and with some ruined historic buildings which includes Granaries, stables for elephants and horses, cannons, a bathing area for the princes and more.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP]  Irungattukottai is a fast emerging neighbourhood of Chennai, strategically on the Chennai-Bangalore Highway (NH4). It is approximately 34 km from downtown Chennai. Irungatttukottai is part of the Kancheepuram District. It is Western part of the suburbs of the Chennai Metropolitan Area. Over the last decade, Irungattukottai has seen significant investments by large manufacturing industries and the Tamil Nadu Government. The State Industries Promotions Corporation of Tamil Nadu (SIPCOT) has set up a large industrial complex aimed primarily at the manufacturing industry as well as a special economic zone (SEZ) for the footwear industry. Irungattukottai is the location of Hyundai Motors large manufacturing facility. The plant forms a critical part of Hyundai's global export hub. It currently exports to around 85 countries across Africa, Middle East, Latin America, Australia, and Asia Pacific. India's first private air freight station is getting ready to be operational at Irungattukottai and the soft launch of the project took place on 17 July 2015.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] Bandrakottai  Bandarakottai (or Pandarakottai) is a Village Panjayat. Which is situated in Panruti taluk, Cuddalore District, Tamil Nadu in India.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] Puthupet  Puthupet (or Pudupet), sometimes called Thorapadi, is a town panchayat situated in Panruti taluk, Cuddalore district in Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] Puducherry (union territory)  Puducherry (), also known as Pondicherry () or Pondichéry, is a union territory of India, consisting of four small geographically unconnected districts. It was formed out of four territories of former French India, namely Pondichéry (Pondicherry; now Puducherry), Karikal (Karaikal), Mahé and Yanaon (now Yanam), excluding Chandannagar (Chandernagore), and it is named after the largest district, Puducherry, which was also the capital of French India. Historically known as Pondicherry (), the territory changed its official name to Puducherry on 20 September 2006.  The Union Territory of Puducherry lies in the southern part of the Indian Peninsula. The areas of Puducherry district and Karaikal district are bound by the state of Tamil Nadu, while Yanam district and Mahé district are enclosed by the states of Andhra Pradesh and Kerala, respectively. Puducherry is the 29th most populous of the 36 states and union territories of India, and the third most densely populated union territory. It has a gross domestic product (GDP) of and ranks 25th in India.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] Pondicherry  Pondicherry (), now known as Puducherry ( French: Pondichéry [pʊdʊˈtʃɛɹi] (listen),[Pon-dicherry]), is the capital and the most populous city of the Union Territory of Puducherry in India. The city is in the Puducherry district on the southeast coast of India and is surrounded by Bay of Bengal to the east and the state of Tamil Nadu, with which it shares most of its culture, heritage, and language.
In what country is Bandrakottai? [SEP] French people in India  The French community in India consists mainly of Indian citizens of French ancestry who are descended from former French settlers and colonists who settled in India since the 17th century, as well as recent expatriates from France.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]  Claud E. Kitchens Outdoor School at Fairview, formerly known as Fairview Outdoor School and Fairview Outdoor Education Center, is a public school located between Clear Spring and Hancock in western Washington County, Maryland, United States. The school was built in 1979 and serves students in the Washington County Public Schools system as a facility to promote environmental awareness. The school was renamed as of 9 December 2008 to honor the late former Washington County Public Schools superintendent Claud E. Kitchens, who oversaw the construction of the facility.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]  Fairview International School is an International Baccalaureate (IB) school that was founded in Kuala Lumpur. It was established in 1978. It moved to its headquarters in Wangsa Maju (KL) from its Ampang campus and it also has campuses in Subang Jaya (Selangor), Penang Island, and Johor Bahru. The school opened a new campus in Ipoh in 2014. Notable alumni include, Han Jisung of South Korean Boygroup Stray Kids.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]  In Fairview, Grades 6 to 11 has 2 academic expedition trips overseas to study about certain topics. There are many places they visit such as Singapore, Siem Reap, Cambodia, Phuket, Thailand, China, Singapore and other places. There is also an annual Port Dickson Camp for Grades 4 to 11. Currently, there is a 21 days programme for students in Grade 7 (all Malaysian campuses) to go to Fairview International School, Scotland (2020).
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]  Fairview High School is a public, coeducational, comprehensive BVSD secondary school located in Boulder, Colorado, 26 mi northwest of Denver. More than two thousand students attend the school. It is in the 5A category of the Colorado High School Activities Association (CHSAA). The school's enrollment was 2,226 in the 2020–21 school year.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]   A
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP] Fairview Outdoor School  Claud E. Kitchens Outdoor School at Fairview, formerly known as Fairview Outdoor School and Fairview Outdoor Education Center, is a public school located between Clear Spring and Hancock in western Washington County, Maryland, United States. The school was built in 1979 and serves students in the Washington County Public Schools system as a facility to promote environmental awareness.  The school was renamed as of 9 December 2008 to honor the late former Washington County Public Schools superintendent Claud E. Kitchens, who oversaw the construction of the facility.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP] Fairview, Tennessee  Fairview is a city located in Williamson County, Tennessee. It is part of the Nashville metropolitan area. The population was 9,357 at the 2020 census, . In the communities just outside Fairview, there are an additional 4,100 people, for a total of over 13,457 people living within the Fairview area.
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]
In what country is Fairview Outdoor School? [SEP]
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]  Kılıçlı Kavlaklı is a village in the District of Emirdağ, Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey.
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]  Kavlaklı is a village in the Kızılırmak district of Çankırı Province in Turkey.
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]  Kavaklı formerly the Greek town of Καβακλή Kavakli is a belde (town) in the central district (Kırklareli) of Kırklareli Province, Turkey. It is situated on which connects Kırklareli to İstanbul at 41.65°N, 27.16667°W. The population of Kavaklı is  3445 as of 2011. Prior to Balkan Wars, the population of Kavaklı was composed of Greeks and Bulgarians living in the Ottoman Empire. After the Balkan Wars, Bulgarians left for Kavakli in Bulgaria, the Greeks were scattered throughout Greece, and the Turks from Bulgaria settled in Kavakli. Later, Turks from Greece and Serbia also settled in Kavakli. In 1968, Kavaklı was declared a seat of township. Both agriculture and industry play a part in town economy.
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]  Kavaklıdere is a town and district of Muğla Province in the Aegean region of Turkey. It is notable for its marble and slate industry and the vast forests extending across the district. İts marbles exported to Italy are usually re-exported by that country under Italian labels. Formerly a township depending Yatağan, it was made into a separate district in 1991. Its first prefect (or kaymakam), for three years, was Eyüp Sabri Kartal.
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]  Kapıkule is the name of the Turkish border crossing point in Edirne Province on the border of Turkey and Bulgaria. Its counterpart on the Bulgarian side is Kapitan Andreevo. Together, they form the busiest land border crossing point in Europe. Kapıkule, situated on the State road D100 (D.100) and European route E80, is also an important gateway for cargo transport to the countries east of Turkey. The Asian Highway Network route AH1 terminates at the border. Other land border checkpoints in western Turkey are the neighboring Hamzabeyli (on the D.535) and Dereköy (on the D.555) to Bulgaria and İpsala (on the D.110, E84) to Greece. The Kapıkule railway station, built in 1971, is located to the north of the town and handles more traffic than any other railway border crossing in Turkey. In the dawn of the Revolutions of 1989, the Kapıkule border crossing saw a mass exodus of Turks fleeing the forced assimilation laws of the mid to late 1980s in the People's Republic of Bulgaria into Turkey.
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]
In what country is Kılıçlı Kavlaklı? [SEP]
In what country is Ago? [SEP]  Agos (in Ակօս, "furrow") is an Armenian bilingual weekly newspaper published in Istanbul, Turkey, established on 5 April 1996. Agos has both Armenian and Turkish pages as well as an online English edition. Today, the paper has a weekly circulation of over 5,000.
In what country is Ago? [SEP]  AGO Flugzeugwerke was a German aircraft manufacturing company from 1911 until 1945. The initials AGO had a variety of meanings (such as Aktiengesellschaft Otto) during the company's lifetime, but in its final version stood for Apparatebau GmbH Oschersleben. At its peak, the company employed around 4,500 people.
In what country is Ago? [SEP]  This act lowered tariffs and spurred apparel trade with many African countries. The AGOA has brought approximately 15,000 jobs and $340 million in foreign investment to some of the poorest nations in sub-Saharan Africa. On August 22, 2007, McDermott was knighted by King Letsie III of Lesotho, in recognition of McDermott's leadership on the Act.
In what country is Ago? [SEP]  Petrit Ago is the former General Director of Customs of Albania and former head of Tirana taxation office. As customs director, he replaced in his new position Ardian Maci. Ago vowed to stick to the pledge of Ministry of Finance in fighting contraband and corruption at customs offices. Ago was also the counselor of former Albanian President, Rexhep Meidani. Ago is currently a businessman. In 2015, he was president of Impuls sh.p.k
In what country is Ago? [SEP]  Agomani ( also spelt as Agomoni or Agamani) is a sub town area of Dhubri district (Assam) India. It is an area on the bank of Gangadhar River with historical significance. Agomani stands in a rural area, but it is not a revenue village. Some portions of the village of Kaldoba and Shernagar and total number of 41 villages in block formed the big area of Agomani. The area of Agomani is about 214 km2 Agomani is situated at a distance of 50 km to the North West of Dhubri, 12 km to the South of West Bengal border and 8 km to the North East of Bangladesh border. National Highway 17 passes through Agomani from North to South and the historical Gohain Kamal Ali (Road) runs from East to West. Both the roads crossed it the heart of Agomani. At the conjunction, there is a daily market and shops of all kinds are established. In 1963 a terrible Cyclone blew over Agomani and swept away many houses, lives and properties and the name of Agomani appeared on Newspaper, Radio & T.V and Agomani had been known to all over Assam.
In what country is Ago? [SEP]
In what country is Ago? [SEP] List of first human settlements  This is a list of dates associated with the prehistoric peopling of the world (first known presence of "Homo sapiens").  The list is divided into four categories, Middle Paleolithic (before 50,000 years ago), Upper Paleolithic (50,000 to 12,500 years ago), Holocene (12,500 to 500 years ago) and Modern (Age of Sail and modern exploration). List entries are identified by region (in the case of genetic evidence spatial resolution is limited) or region, country or island, with the date of the first known or hypothesised modern human presence (or "settlement", although Paleolithic humans were not sedentary).  Human "settlement" does not necessarily have to be continuous; settled areas in some cases become depopulated due to environmental conditions, such as glacial periods or the Toba volcanic eruption. Early "Homo sapiens" migrated out of Africa from as early as 270,000 years ago, although these early migrations may have died out and permanent Homo sapiens presence outside of Africa may not have been established until about 70-50,000 years ago.
In what country is Ago? [SEP] Trinidad and Tobago  Trinidad and Tobago (, ), officially the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago, is the southernmost island country in the Caribbean. Consisting of the main islands Trinidad and Tobago, and numerous much smaller islands, it is situated south of Grenada and off the coast of northeastern Venezuela. Trinidad and Tobago is generally considered to be part of the West Indies. The island country's capital is Port of Spain, while its largest and most populous city is San Fernando.  The island of Trinidad was inhabited for centuries by Indigenous peoples before becoming a colony in the Spanish Empire, following the arrival of Christopher Columbus, in 1498. Spanish governor José María Chacón surrendered the island to a British fleet under the command of Sir Ralph Abercromby in 1797. Trinidad and Tobago were ceded to Britain in 1802 under the Treaty of Amiens as separate states and unified in 1889. Trinidad and Tobago obtained independence in 1962, becoming a republic in 1976.<ref name=EBTT/>  Trinidad and Tobago has the 5th highest GDP per capita based on purchasing power parity (PPP) in the Americas for a sovereign state after the United States, Canada, The Bahamas and Guyana as of 2022. It is recognised by the World Bank as a high-income economy. Unlike most Caribbean nations and territories, which rely heavily on tourism, the economy is primarily industrial with an emphasis on petroleum and petrochemicals; much of the nation's wealth is derived from its large reserves of oil and natural gas.  Trinidad and Tobago is well known for its African and Indian cultures, reflected in its large and famous Carnival, Diwali, and Hosay celebrations, as well being the birthplace of steelpan, the limbo, and music styles such as calypso, soca, rapso, parang, chutney, and chutney soca.
In what country is Ago? [SEP]
In what country is Ago? [SEP]
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Égligny are called Églignyciens.
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]  Égligny is a commune in the Seine-et-Marne department in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]  Eguisheim (Egisheim; Alsatian: Egsa) is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in Grand Est in north-eastern France. It lies in the historical region of Alsace (Elsass). The village lies on the edge of the Ballons des Vosges Nature Park, where the Vosges meet the Upper Rhine Plain. Eguisheim is about 7 km from Colmar. The vineyards around Eguisheim produce Alsace wine of high quality. The village is ranked in the top 20 of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France. In May 2013 it was voted the 'Village préféré des Français' (Favorite French Village), an annual distinction that passes from town to town throughout France.
In what country is Égligny? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Kölln-Reisiek, Germany
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]  Eygliers is a commune in the Hautes-Alpes department in southeastern France.
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]
In what country is Égligny? [SEP] Canton of Provins  The canton of Provins is a French administrative division, located in the arrondissement of Provins, in the Seine-et-Marne "département" (Île-de-France "région").
In what country is Égligny? [SEP] Canton of Donnemarie-Dontilly  The canton of Donnemarie-Dontilly is a French former administrative division, located in the arrondissement of Provins, in the Seine-et-Marne "département" (Île-de-France "région"). It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 19 communes, which joined the canton of Provins in 2015.
In what country is Égligny? [SEP]
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP] West Japan Railway Company ; Hakubi Line
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]  Bitchū-Kawamo Station (備中川面駅) is a train station in Takahashi, Okayama Prefecture, Japan.
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]  Bitchū-Kurese Station (備中呉妹駅) is a train station in the city of Kurashiki, Okayama Prefecture, Japan.
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]  Bitchū-Takamatsu Station (備中高松駅) is a train station in the city of Okayama, Okayama Prefecture, Japan.
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]  Bitchū-Mishima Station (備中箕島駅) is a train station in Okayama, Okayama Prefecture, Japan.
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP] Hakubi Line  The is a railway line operated by West Japan Railway Company (JR West) in the mountainous area of the Chūgoku region of Japan. It begins at the south end of Okayama Prefecture at Kurashiki Station in Kurashiki, passing through Niimi Station on the west side of Niimi, and terminating at Hōki-Daisen Station in Yonago, Tottori Prefecture, linking Okayama Prefecture and Yonago across the Chūgoku Mountains. The Hakubi Line follows the Takahashi River between Kurashiki and Niimi, and the Hino River between Shōyama and Hōki-Daisen.  Since 2007, the ICOCA card can be used in all stations between Kurashiki Station and Bitchū-Takahashi Station.
In what country is Bitchū-Kawamo Station? [SEP]
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]  Borysławice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Błaszki, within Sieradz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north of Błaszki, 24 km west of Sieradz, and 73 km west of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]  Borysławka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Fredropol, within Przemyśl County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine. It lies approximately 11 km south-west of Fredropol, 18 km south-west of Przemyśl, and 63 km south-east of the regional capital Rzeszów.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]  Borysław is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Głuchów, within Skierniewice County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 8 km north of Głuchów, 13 km south of Skierniewice, and 45 km east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has an approximate population of 300.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]  Borysławice Kościelne is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Grzegorzew, within Koło County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 11 km north-east of Grzegorzew, 14 km east of Koło, and 131 km east of the regional capital Poznań.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]  Boryszew is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wiązowna, within Otwock County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north of Wiązowna, 9 km north-east of Otwock, and 22 km east of Warsaw.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP]
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP] Borysławice  Borysławice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Błaszki, within Sieradz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately north of Błaszki, west of Sieradz, and west of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP] Borysławice Zamkowe  Borysławice Zamkowe is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Grzegorzew, within Koło County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Grzegorzew, east of Koło, and east of the regional capital Poznań.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP] Gmina Błaszki  Gmina Błaszki is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Sieradz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. Established by the noble family "Baszczyk" or "Blaszczyk" (means of Baszczyk/Blaszczyk). Its seat is the town of Błaszki, which lies approximately west of Sieradz and west of the regional capital Łódź.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 15,090, of which the population of Błaszki is 2,179, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 12,911.
In what country is Borysławice? [SEP] Gmina Grzegorzew  Gmina Grzegorzew is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Koło County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. Its seat is the village of Grzegorzew, which lies approximately south-east of Koło and east of the regional capital Poznań.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 5,617.
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP]  Urretxo. ; in Italy (1990), in the north: Feltre (palio), Niccia and Melere (in the municipality of Trichiana) and Venice. ; again in France (1991), with performances in Toulouse, during the Sardana International Festival, and Carcassonne. ; in Luxemburg and Germany (1991), performing in Luxemburg (capital), Moers, Wolfenbütel, Hannover, Berlin and Frankfurt. ; in the Universal Exposition Seville'92 (1992), during the Catalonia day. ; in Santiago de Compostella (1993), in the framework of the Xacobeo'93. ; in the same year, the group did a tour of five countries: France (Marseille), Italy (Lecco, Melzo and Bergamo), Slovenia (Ljubljana, Postojna, Otocêc, Novo Mesto and Crnomêlj), Austria (Klagenfurt) and
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP]  Castel d'Ario (Mantovano: Castlar) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Mantua in the Italian region Lombardy, located about 150 km east of Milan and about 15 km east of Mantua. It was the birthplace of race car driver Tazio Nuvolari. Castel d'Ario borders the following municipalities: Bigarello, Roncoferraro, Sorgà, Villimpenta.
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP]  Castello Tesino (Castèl Tasìn or Castèlo in local dialect) is a comune (municipality) in Trentino in the northern Italian region Trentino-Alto Adige/Südtirol, located about 40 km east of Trento. Castello Tesino borders the following municipalities: Canal San Bovo, Pieve Tesino, Scurelle, Cinte Tesino, Lamon, Grigno, and Arsiè.
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP] Official website
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP] 🇨🇦 Guelph, Ontario, Canada
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP] Mato Castelhano  Mato Castelhano is a municipality in the state of Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil. As of 2020, the estimated population was 2,542.
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP] List of municipalities in Rio Grande do Sul  This is a list of the municipalities in the state of Rio Grande do Sul (RS), located in the South Region of Brazil. Rio Grande do Sul is divided into 497 municipalities, which are grouped into 35 microregions, which are grouped into 7 mesoregions.
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP]
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP] Portuguese language  Portuguese ( or, in full, ) is a western Romance language of the Indo-European language family, originating in the Iberian Peninsula of Europe. It is an official language of Portugal, Brazil, Cape Verde, Angola, Mozambique, Guinea-Bissau and São Tomé and Príncipe, while having co-official language status in East Timor, Equatorial Guinea, and Macau. A Portuguese-speaking person or nation is referred to as "Lusophone" (). As the result of expansion during colonial times, a cultural presence of Portuguese speakers is also found around the world. Portuguese is part of the Ibero-Romance group that evolved from several dialects of Vulgar Latin in the medieval Kingdom of Galicia and the County of Portugal, and has kept some Celtic phonology in its lexicon.  With approximately 250 million native speakers and 24 million L2 (second language) speakers, Portuguese has approximately 274 million total speakers. It is usually listed as the sixth-most spoken language, the third-most spoken European language in the world in terms of native speakers and the second most spoken Romance language in the world, surpassed only by Spanish. Being the most widely spoken language in South America and all of the Southern Hemisphere, it is also the second-most spoken language, after Spanish, in Latin America, one of the 10 most spoken languages in Africa, and an official language of the European Union, Mercosur, the Organization of American States, the Economic Community of West African States, the African Union, and the Community of Portuguese Language Countries, an international organization made up of all of the world's officially Lusophone nations. In 1997, a comprehensive academic study ranked Portuguese as one of the 10 most influential languages in the world.<ref>"The World's 10 most influential languages", George Werber, 1997, "Language Today", retrieved on scribd.com  "...includes besides many other languages, Bengali, English, French, German, Hindi/Urdu, Italian, Marathi, Panjabi, Persian, Brazilian (Portuguese), Russian, the Scandinavian languages, and Spanish."  "Portuguese today means above all Brazilian."</ref>
In what country is Mato Castelhano? [SEP]
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]  Tartaczek is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Belsk Duży, within Grójec County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]  Tartak is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Nurzec-Stacja, within Siemiatycze County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]  Tartak is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Zakrzówek, within Kraśnik County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]  Tarczyn is a town in Poland, located in Masovian Voivodeship, about 30 km south of Warsaw. There were 3,869 inhabitants living there in 2004. This town became famous for the eponymous juices that were made there.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]  Tartak is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łyse, within Ostrołęka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 28 km north of Ostrołęka and 127 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP] Tartaczek  Tartaczek is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Belsk Duży, within Grójec County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP]
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP] (oppidum notabile). Until the Partitions of Poland, the village was part of Lesser Poland's Sandomierz Voivodeship, and in 1815–1915, it belonged to Russian-controlled Congress Poland. Main object of interest in the village is Romanesque church of Saint Giles from the first half of the 13th century, built in the location of the earlier church from 1067. It has one nave, and the church is made from limestone, with Romanesque walls, except for Western facade, which was rebuilt in the 16th century. In the southern wall of the presbytery there is a late Gothic portal. Gothic vault was rebuilt after World
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP] at Treblinka extermination camp. In 1960, the population of Bodzentyn was almost 3,000, and the village regained its town charter in 1994. Bodzentyn Bodzentyn is a town in Kielce County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, Poland, with 2,271 inhabitants (2004). Bodzentyn Castle was built in the 14th century. Bodzentyn belongs to Lesser Poland, and was granted town charter in 1355. The town lies in the Świętokrzyskie Mountains, here main office of the Świętokrzyski National Park is located. Bodzentyn (or "Bodzentin", as it used to be called in documents) was founded in 1355 near the location of the ancient town of Tarczek, which belonged
In what country is Tartaczek? [SEP] center has parking for over 2000 cars. The current owner is Foras Targówek Property. Centrum Handlowe Targówek Targówek Shopping Center is a shopping center in Warsaw, at ul. Głębockiej 15, near the Toruńska main road in the district Targówek. It has over 140 Polish and international shops and restaurants as well as a Multikino 12 screen cinema. The center opened in September 1997 and it was at that time the largest and most modern in Poland. It was also one of the first large shopping centers in Poland. Since then it has increased in size and been modernised and currently
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]  Jelow Girangeh (, also Romanized as Jelow Gīrāngeh and Jelow Gīrangeh) is a village in Cheshmeh Kabud Rural District, in the Central District of Harsin County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 23, in 6 families.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]  Artin Jelow (also Atin Jilao) is a village in Badakhshan Province in north-eastern Afghanistan. It is roughly 16 miles southeast of Rostaq, Afghanistan. There is a bridge over the Kokcha River there. In the 1970s, the village population were primarily Tajiks.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]  Jaria (, also Romanized as Jarīā, Jereyā, and Jeryā; also known as Girieh, Girya, and Gīryeh) is a village in Haram Rud-e Sofla Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 228, in 57 families.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]  Jelow-e Olya (, also Romanized as Jelow-e ‘Olyā) is a village in Sar Firuzabad Rural District, Firuzabad District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. In 2006, its population was 118, in 26 families.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]  Jelow-e Sofla (, also Romanized as Jelow-e Soflá; also known as Chalāu and Jelow) is a village in Sar Firuzabad Rural District, Firuzabad District, Kermanshah County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 148, in 30 families.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP] Jelow Girangeh  Jelow Girangeh (, also Romanized as Jelow Gīrāngeh and Jelow Gīrangeh) is a village in Cheshmeh Kabud Rural District, in the Central District of Harsin County, Kermanshah Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 23, in 6 families.
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]
In what country is Jelow Girangeh? [SEP]
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP]  Ahmadabad-e Razavi (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Raẕavī; also known as Aḩmadābād and Allahābād) is a village in Eslamiyeh Rural District, in the Central District of Rafsanjan County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 564, in 128 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP]  Ahmadabad (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād) is a village in Meyami Rural District, Razaviyeh District, Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 727, in 176 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP]  Ahmadabad District is a district (bakhsh) in Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 51,267, in 13,424 families. The District has one city: Malekabad. The District has two rural districts (Dehestan): Piveh Zhan Rural District and Sarjam Rural District.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP]  Ahmadabad-e Sowlat (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Şowlat; also known as Aḩmadābād, Aḩmadābād-e Pā’īn, and Ahmad Abad Pa’in) is a city in Dasht-e Jam Rural District, Bujgan District, Torbat-e Jam County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,825, in 1,390 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP]  Ahmadabad (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād; also known as Hendābād (Persian: هند اباد) and Aḩmadābād-e Āstāneh) is a village in Astaneh Rural District, in the Central District of Roshtkhar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,774, in 691 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP] Ahmadabad-e Razavi  Ahmadabad-e Razavi (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Raẕavī; also known as Aḩmadābād and Allahābād) is a village in Eslamiyeh Rural District, in the Central District of Rafsanjan County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 564, in 128 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP] Ahmadabad-e Sowlat  Ahmadabad-e Sowlat (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Şowlat; also known as Aḩmadābād, Aḩmadābād-e Pā’īn, and Ahmad Abad Pa’in) is a city in Dasht-e Jam Rural District, Bujgan District, Torbat-e Jam County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,825, in 1,390 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP] Ahmadabad-e Khazai  Ahmadabad-e Khazai (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Khazā’ī; also known as Aḩmadābād) is a village in Pain Rokh Rural District, Jolgeh Rokh District, Torbat-e Heydarieh County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 931, in 217 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP] Ahmadabad-e Moqbel  Ahmadabad-e Moqbel (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Moqbel; also known as Aḩmadābād) is a village in Tus Rural District, in the Central District of Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 189, in 50 families.
In what country is Ahmadabad-e Razavi? [SEP] Ahmadabad-e Banakdar  Ahmadabad-e Banakdar (, also Romanized as Aḩmadābād-e Banaḵdār; also known as Aḩmadābād) is a village in Gol Banu Rural District, Pain Jam District, Torbat-e Jam County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11, in 4 families.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] The Economic Freedom of the World Index is a report published by the Fraser Institute in conjunction with the Economic Freedom Network, a Canadian group of independent research and educational institutes in 90 nations and territories worldwide. The Index of Economic Freedom is an annual report published by American based the Heritage Foundation and The Wall Street Journal. Countries and regions are assessed as free, mostly free, moderately free, mostly unfree, and repressed. This article includes a partial list of countries by economic freedom that shows the top 50 highest ranking countries and regions from two reports on economic freedom.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] Key: * - Electoral democracies (as described above), PR - Political Rights, CL - Civil Liberties, Free Status: Free, Partly Free, Not Free Note: The Middle East countries of Turkey, Cyprus, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Armenia can be found in the "Europe" and "Eurasia" sections of Freedom House's Freedom in the World report.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP]  scale from 10 (freest) to 0 (least free). In 2012, the freest countries/regions were New Zealand (8.88), Switzerland (8.82), and Hong Kong SAR, (8.81). Least free were Syria (3.79), Venezuela (3.80), and Yemen (4.30). The components on which the index is based can be divided into economic freedoms and other personal freedoms. Highest ranking in economic freedoms were Hong Kong (8.91) and Singapore (8.71). Highest ranking in personal freedoms were Sweden (9.45) and the Netherlands (9.28). In 2020, United States has dropped to rank 17 according to The Human Freedom Index. The Freedom Index does not measure democracy, but it does measure freedom of speech and media, press killings, political imprisonment,
In what country is Freedom? [SEP]    Freedom in the World is a yearly survey and report by the U.S.-based non-governmental organization Freedom House that measures the degree of civil liberties and political rights in every nation and significant related and disputed territories around the world.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP]  Where Is Freedom? (Dov'è la libertà?) is a 1954 Italian comedy-drama film directed by Roberto Rossellini. The film had a troubled production because, after shooting some scenes, Rossellini lost interest in the film and abandoned the set. The work was completed after about a year, mainly from Mario Monicelli, with some scenes also shot by Lucio Fulci and Federico Fellini. Despite that, Rossellini is the sole credited director of the film.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] List of freedom indices  This article contains a list of freedom indices produced by several non-governmental organizations that publish and maintain assessments of the state of freedom in the world, according to their own various definitions of the term, and rank countries as being free, partly free, or using various measures of freedom, including civil liberties, political rights and economic rights.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP]
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] Freedom in the World  Freedom in the World is a yearly survey and report by the U.S.-based non-governmental organization Freedom House that measures the degree of civil liberties and political rights in every nation and significant related and disputed territories around the world.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] State of World Liberty Index  The State of World Liberty Index was a ranking of countries according to the degree of economic and personal freedoms that their citizens enjoy. It was a compilation of several similar indices created by other organizations. The index's original author Nick Wilson defined freedom as "the ability for the individual to live their lives as they choose, as long as they do not infringe on the rights of others to do the same."  Only one report (the 2006 State of World Liberty Index, released 12 August 2006) was produced by the State of World Liberty Project and the original website is now defunct. However, Patrick Rhamey, professor in the Department of International Studies at the Virginia Military Institute, has updated the rankings through 2022 using the same concept, with some adjustments to the original method.  The index has been cited by human rights organisations, governments, pro-democracy groups, news organisations, and others.
In what country is Freedom? [SEP] Freedom of speech by country  Freedom of speech is the concept of the inherent human right to voice one's opinion publicly without fear of government censorship or punishment. "Speech" is not limited to public speaking and is generally taken to include other forms of expression. The right is preserved in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is granted formal recognition by the laws of most nations. Nonetheless, the degree to which the right is upheld in practice varies greatly from one nation to another. In many nations, particularly those with authoritarian forms of government, overt government censorship is enforced. Censorship has also been claimed to occur in other forms and there are different approaches to issues such as hate speech, obscenity, and defamation laws.  The following list is partially composed of the respective countries' government claims and does not fully reflect the "de facto" situation, however many sections of the page do contain information about the validity of the government's claims alongside said claims.
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] 🇰🇷 Gangwon-do, South Korea (1974) ; 🇯🇵 Hokkaido, Japan (1980) ; Heilongjiang, China (1981) ; 🇺🇸 Montana, United States (1985) ; 🇷🇺 Tyumen, Russia (1992) ; 🇷🇺 Khanty–Mansi, Russia (1995) ; 🇷🇺 Yamalo-Nenets, Russia (1997) ; 🇲🇽 Jalisco, Mexico (1999) ; 🇺🇸 Alaska, United States (2002) ; 🇩🇪 Saxony, Germany (2002) ; 🇺🇦 Ivano-Frankivsk, Ukraine (2004) ; 🇺🇦 Lviv, Ukraine (2005) ; 🇺🇸 California, United States (1997) ; Guangdong, China (2017) Alberta has relationships with many provinces, states, and other entities worldwide.
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP]  Stępień was born in Warsaw, Poland and raised in Windsor, Ontario. She is a student of Biomedical Engineering Technology at St. Clair College and is an applied researcher. She speaks French, Polish, German and English. She is also a professional model. In 2021 she married businessman Rodrigo Herrera.
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP]  get asylum. The husband of a sister of his wife who had settled in Canada happened to be in Paris at that time and urged him to move there. Fluent in both French and English, with a good educational background and a great deal of professional experience, he had no difficulty finding employment and settling down in his new country. Thiện became a professor in linguistics at the Université du Québec à Trois-Rivières. In these years he travelled extensively to academic conferences in Europe, Thailand, Singapore, Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan, China, the USSR, and Australia. He also served as a visiting professor at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva, and a senior visiting fellow at the
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] 🇨🇦 Hamilton, Ontario ; 🇲🇽 Monterrey, Mexico
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] 🇫🇷 Meudon, France ; 🇩🇪 Haldensleben, Germany ; 🇺🇦 Khmelnytskyi, Ukraine ; 🇸🇰 Brezno, Slovakia Ciechanów is twinned with:
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP]
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP]
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] facility in 2003. Canada Border Services Agency continues to operate out of the brick border station that was built in 1954. Piegan–Carway Border Crossing The Piegan–Carway Border Crossing connects the town of Babb, Montana with Cardston, Alberta. It is reached by U.S. Route 89 on the American side and Alberta Highway 2 on the Canadian side. The small village of Carway, Alberta has all but vanished, with the Carway School closing in 1954. The highway connects Calgary with Waterton-Glacier International Peace Park, and the crossing is the third-busiest in Montana. Twenty homes for US border officials are near the station.
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] in the American portion is Omak, with 4,881 residents as of 2011. The region took its current name in honor of the Okanagan term, "ukʷnaqín". The mild climate and close proximity to lakes, rivers and mountainous regions make the Okanagan Country an outdoor recreational destination. The region's economy is dominated by the primary industries of agriculture and forestry, although economic diversification has also occurred with retirement communities and recreational tourism. The American portion is considered to be more remote than the Canadian division, with approximately 10 percent of the population. The Shuswap Highland and Thompson Plateau, coming out of the
In what country is Ciepień? [SEP] Boundary Country The Boundary Country is a historical designation for a district in southern British Columbia lying, as its name suggests, along the boundary between Canada and the United States. It lies to the east of the southern Okanagan Valley and to the west of the West Kootenay. It is often included in descriptions of both of those regions but historically has been considered a separate region. Originally inclusive of the South Okanagan towns of Osoyoos and Oliver, today the term continues in use to refer to the valleys of the Kettle, West Kettle, and Granby Rivers and of Boundary
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP]  Blenheim (Waiharakeke) is the most populous town in the region of Marlborough, in the north east of the South Island of New Zealand. It has an urban population of The surrounding Marlborough wine region is well known as the centre of the New Zealand wine industry. It enjoys one of New Zealand's sunniest climates, with warm, relatively dry summers and cool, crisp winters. Blenheim is named after the Battle of Blenheim (1704), where troops led by John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough defeated a combined French and Bavarian force. The New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage gives a translation of "flax stream" for Waiharakeke.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP]  Blenheim is served by a variety of print publications. The major daily newspaper serving the area is The Marlborough Express published by Fairfax NZ, with its headquarters in Blenheim. The Saturday Express and Midweek are community newspapers published by the same company and distributed throughout Marlborough. The Blenheim Sun is a twice-weekly free newspaper distributed each Wednesday and Friday while the locally owned Marlborough Weekly is published every Tuesday and delivered to every home in the region.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP]  Blenheim's water supply is drawn from the Wairau aquifer via nine bores and is treated at two plants in Middle Renwick Road and Bomford Street.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP]  Blenheim is on the Main North Line, the northern part of the unofficially-named South Island Main Trunk Railway. The Coastal Pacific, the daily summer-only long-distance passenger train between Picton and Christchurch, stops at Blenheim Railway Station. The 1906 station has been listed NZHPT Category II since 1982. It is a standard Vintage station, with Tudor half-timbering and tile. A major rail freight facility is north of Blenheim at Spring Creek. The narrow-gauge Blenheim Riverside Railway runs through the town.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP] Blenheim School is a state contributing primary (Year 1-6) primary school. It has a roll of approximately. ; Bohally Intermediate is a state intermediate (Year 7–8) school opened in 1957 following a split from Marlborough College. It has a roll of approximately. ; Marlborough Boys' College is a state boys' secondary (Year 9–13) school. It opened in 1963 following the split of Marlborough College into separate boys' and girls schools, and has a roll of approximately. ; Marlborough Girls' College is a state girls' secondary (Year 9–13) school. It opened in 1963 following the split of Marlborough College into separate boys' and girls school, and has a roll of approximately.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP]
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP] Blenheim, New Zealand  Blenheim ( ; ) is the most populous town in the region of Marlborough, in the north east of the South Island of New Zealand. It has an urban population of The surrounding Marlborough wine region is well known as the centre of the New Zealand wine industry. It enjoys one of New Zealand's sunniest climates, with warm, relatively dry summers and cool, crisp winters.  Blenheim is named after the Battle of Blenheim (1704), where troops led by John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough defeated a combined French and Bavarian force.  The New Zealand Ministry for Culture and Heritage gives a translation of "flax stream" for .
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP] Blenheim Palace  Blenheim Palace (pronounced ) is a country house in Woodstock, Oxfordshire, England. It is the seat of the Dukes of Marlborough and the only non-royal, non-episcopal country house in England to hold the title of palace. The palace, one of England's largest houses, was built between 1705 and 1722, and designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1987.  The palace is named after the 1704 Battle of Blenheim. It was originally intended to be a reward to John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough for his military triumphs against the French and Bavarians in the War of the Spanish Succession, culminating in the Battle of Blenheim. The land was given as a gift, and construction began in 1705, with some financial support from Queen Anne. The project soon became the subject of political infighting, with the Crown cancelling further financial support in 1712, Marlborough's three-year voluntary exile to the Continent, the fall from influence of his duchess, and lasting damage to the reputation of the architect Sir John Vanbrugh.  Designed in the rare, and short-lived, English Baroque style, architectural appreciation of the palace is as divided today as it was in the 1720s. It is unique in its combined use as a family home, mausoleum and national monument. The palace is notable as the birthplace and ancestral home of Sir Winston Churchill.  Following the palace's completion, it became the home of the Churchill (later Spencer-Churchill) family for the next 300 years, and various members of the family have wrought changes to the interiors, park and gardens. At the end of the 19th century, the palace was saved from ruin by funds gained from the 9th Duke of Marlborough's marriage to American railroad heiress Consuelo Vanderbilt.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP] Battle of Blenheim  The Battle of Blenheim (; ; ) fought on , was a major battle of the War of the Spanish Succession. The overwhelming Allied victory ensured the safety of Vienna from the Franco-Bavarian army, thus preventing the collapse of the reconstituted Grand Alliance.  Louis XIV of France sought to knock the Holy Roman Emperor, Leopold, out of the war by seizing Vienna, the Habsburg capital, and gain a favourable peace settlement. The dangers to Vienna were considerable: Maximilian II Emanuel, Elector of Bavaria, and Marshal Ferdinand de Marsin's forces in Bavaria threatened from the west, and Marshal Louis Joseph de Bourbon, duc de Vendôme's large army in northern Italy posed a serious danger with a potential offensive through the Brenner Pass. Vienna was also under pressure from Rákóczi's Hungarian revolt from its eastern approaches. Realising the danger, the Duke of Marlborough resolved to alleviate the peril to Vienna by marching his forces south from Bedburg to help maintain Emperor Leopold within the Grand Alliance.  A combination of deception and skilled administration – designed to conceal his true destination from friend and foe alike – enabled Marlborough to march unhindered from the Low Countries to the River Danube in five weeks. After securing Donauwörth on the Danube, Marlborough sought to engage Maximilian's and Marsin's army before Marshal Camille d'Hostun, duc de Tallard, could bring reinforcements through the Black Forest. The Franco-Bavarian commanders proved reluctant to fight until their numbers were deemed sufficient, and Marlborough failed in his attempts to force an engagement. When Tallard arrived to bolster Maximilian's army, and Prince Eugene of Savoy arrived with reinforcements for the Allies, the two armies finally met on the banks of the Danube in and around the small village of Blindheim, from which the English "Blenheim" is derived.  Blenheim was one of the battles that altered the course of the war, which until then was favouring the French and Spanish Bourbons. Although the battle did not win the war, it prevented a potentially devastating loss for the Grand Alliance and shifted the war's momentum, ending French plans of knocking Emperor Leopold out of the war. The French suffered catastrophic casualties in the battle, including their commander-in-chief, Tallard, who was taken captive to England. Before the 1704 campaign ended, the Allies had taken Landau, and the towns of Trier and Trarbach on the Moselle in preparation for the following year's campaign into France itself. This offensive never materialised, for the Grand Alliance's army had to depart the Moselle to defend Liège from a French counter-offensive. The war continued for another decade before ending in 1714.
In what country is Blenheim? [SEP] Woodbourne Airport  Woodbourne Airport trading as Marlborough Airport is a small, controlled airport located 8 km west of Blenheim in the Marlborough region of New Zealand, on , Middle Renwick Road. It is co-located with RNZAF Base Woodbourne in the Wairau Valley on the north-eastern corner of the South Island of New Zealand. The airport has a single terminal and 7 tarmac gates.
In what country is Mary? [SEP]  Maria Feodorovna in Denmark and Saint Petersburg. In November 2009 Mary made a surprise visit to Danish soldiers in Helmand Province, Afghanistan. One of Mary's stops was FOB Armadillo. In the context of immigrant issues in Denmark, Mary has visited the disadvantaged migrant areas of Vollsmose (2006), Gellerup (2007), and Viborg (2010), and has participated in integration projects including the teaching of the Danish language to refugees. As patron of the Danish Refugee Council, Mary visited Uganda (2008) and East Africa (2011) and supports fundraising for the region. Mary has played an active role in promoting an anti-bullying program based on an Australian model through the auspices of Denmark's Save the Children. She is also involved in a new
In what country is Mary? [SEP]  Missionary Sisters of the Society of Mary are engaged in missionary activity in twenty four countries of the Pacific, Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America. These countries include Australia, Brazil, Canada, England, Fiji, France, Ireland, Italy, Mexico, New Zealand, Senegal, The Gambia, The Philippines, United States and Venezuela serving the many needs of people.
In what country is Mary? [SEP]  As of 2020, there are about 400 Missionary Sisters of the Society of Mary working in twenty-three countries mostly in the areas of education and religious communication. The Province of South Pacific is made up of the five island countries of New Zealand, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji and the Philippines. In Suva, the capital of Fiji, sisters teach at the Training College and at the Pacific Regional Seminary. The Region of the Americas includes Jamaica, Peru, and the United States.
In what country is Mary? [SEP]  The Convent of Jesus and Mary ("CJM") is a network of Roman Catholic schools founded by the Congregation of the Religious of Jesus and Mary. The school network originating in east-central France in the 19th century has since its inception expanded to several countries spread across Europe, Asia, Africa, North and South America. CJM schools are present in the following countries: In Europe: Ireland, Spain, Italy, England, and Germany. In the Americas: United States, Canada, Mexico, Colombia, and Bolivia. In the Middle East: Lebanon and Syria. In Africa: Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and Nigeria. In Asia: India, Pakistan, and the Philippines.
In what country is Mary? [SEP]   The Family of Mary is primarily active in Slovakia, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, France, the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Uruguay, Kazakhstan, and Russia. The community has a particular focus on spreading devotion to the alleged Marian apparition entitled The Lady of All Nations. However, in December 2020, the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith discouraged promotion of the "the alleged apparitions and revelations" associated with the Marian title of "Lady of All Nations,". While the title "Lady of All Nations" for Mary is itself "theologically acceptable", the alleged apparitions that gave rise to it are not. They were the subject of a "Negative Declaration" in 1974. In 2020, Msgr. Lubomir Welnitz, Opus J.S.S., was appointed one of eight Papal Masters of Ceremonies under the Office for the Liturgical Celebrations of the Supreme Pontiff.
In what country is Mary? [SEP] Mary Region  Mary Region (, Мары велаяты) is one of five provinces in Turkmenistan. It is located in the south-east of the country, bordering Afghanistan. Its capital is the city of Mary. Its area is and population 1,480,400 (2005 est.). The average population density is about 15 persons per square kilometer, but it reaches 150–200 per square kilometer in the most developed oases.  In 2000, Mary Region accounted for 23% of Turkmenistan's population, 19% of the total number of employed, 26% of agricultural production (by value), and 21% of the country's total industrial production. The region's industries include natural gas extraction (the Galkynysh Gas Field), electric power generation, textiles, carpet weaving, chemical and food industry. In 2001 it accounted for 74% of Turkmenistan's electricity generation 26% of natural gas extraction.  Agriculture in Mary Region is irrigated by the Karakum Canal, which runs east to west through the center of the province, and by the Murghab River, which runs south to north, entering the province from Afghanistan. While the northern portion of the province is within the Central Asian southern desert ecoregion, the southern portion of the province is characterized by a savanna of pistachio and desert sedges, classified as the Badkhiz-Karabil semi-desert by the World Wildlife Fund.  Ancient Merv, designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is the main archeological attraction of Mary Province. This is one of the best-preserved oasis cities on the ancient Silk Road.  The capital of Mary Region is the city of Mary, located at the intersection of Murghab River with the Karakum Canal. Other major cities are Baýramaly (), Ýolöten (Iolotan, ), and Serhetabat (, formerly , ) on the border with Afghanistan.
In what country is Mary? [SEP] Mary Chapin Carpenter  Mary Chapin Carpenter (born February 21, 1958) is an American country and folk music singer-songwriter. Carpenter spent several years singing in Washington, D. C.-area clubs before signing in the late 1980s with Columbia Records. Carpenter's first album, 1987's "Hometown Girl", did not produce any charting singles. She broke through with 1989's "State of the Heart" and 1990's "Shooting Straight in the Dark".  Carpenter's most successful album is 1992's "Come On Come On", which accounted for seven singles and was certified quadruple platinum in the United States for shipments of four million copies. After a number of commercially unsuccessful albums throughout the late 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century, she exited Columbia for Zoë Records. Her first album for this label was 2007's "The Calling". She continued to record for Zoë until departing to her own Lambent Light label in 2015.  Carpenter has won five Grammy Awards out of eighteen nominations, including four consecutive wins in the category of Best Female Country Vocal Performance between 1992 and 1995. She has charted 27 times on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs charts, with her 1994 single "Shut Up and Kiss Me" representing her only number-one single there. Her musical style takes influence from contemporary country and folk, with many of her songs including feminist themes. While largely composed of songs she wrote herself or with longtime producer John Jennings, her discography includes covers of Gene Vincent, Lucinda Williams, and Dire Straits among others.
In what country is Mary? [SEP] Mary Institute and St. Louis Country Day School  MICDS (Mary Institute and Saint Louis Country Day School) is a secular, co-educational, independent school home to more than 1,250 students ranging from grades Junior Kindergarten through 12. Its campus is located in the St. Louis suburb of Ladue.  Each of the school's three divisions operate somewhat independently as a “school within a school”. The Lower School, also referred to as The Ronald S. Beasley School, or “Beasley” for short, is for students in grades junior kindergarten through 4. The MICDS Middle School, grades 5 to 8, is in the former Mary Institute facilities. The Upper School on the former Country Day School campus serves grades 9 through 12.
In what country is Mary? [SEP] The Bluebird Books  The Bluebird Books is a series of novels popular with teenage girls in the 1910s and 1920s. The series was begun by L. Frank Baum using his Edith Van Dyne pseudonym, then continued by at least three others, all using the same pseudonym. Baum wrote the first four books in the series, possibly with help from his son, Harry Neal Baum, on the third. The fifth book is based on a fragment by Baum and written by an unknown author. The last five books were written by Emma Speed Sampson. The origin of the title is uncertain, but the books were all published in hardcover with blue cloth.  The books are concerned with adolescent girl detectives — a concept Baum had experimented with earlier, in "The Daring Twins" (1911) and "Phoebe Daring" (1912). The Bluebird series began with "Mary Louise", originally written as a tribute to Baum's favorite sister, Mary Louise Baum Brewster. Baum's publisher, Reilly & Britton, rejected that manuscript, as they felt the heroine was too independent for a female. Baum wrote a new version of the book; the original manuscript is lost.  The title character is Mary Louise Burrows. In the first books of the series, she is a fifteen-year-old girl with unusual maturity (though the other girls in her boarding school find her somewhat priggish). She confronts with the fact that her grandfather is suspected of treason against the United States. With her friends' help, she reveals her grandfather's innocence and uncovers the truth. The novel features federal agent John O'Gorman with assistance from his daughter Josie, whom he trained to be an investigator. (Josie O'Gorman, despite preceding Nancy Drew by more than a decade, is much less traditionally feminine.)  Subsequent novels in the series bring changes on this basic formula. The second book, "Mary Louise in the Country", involves the then-contemporary struggle for Irish independence from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland. Josie O'Gorman, tougher and less ladylike than Mary Louise, has a more prominent role, and eventually takes over the series. Sampson relented and named the last few books after this character.  "Marie Louise in the Country" contains a passage bearing upon the question of racism in Baum's works. Baum draws a contrast between the crude racist attitude of a local shopkeeper with the more egalitarian attitudes of Marie Louise and her grandfather. "Mary Louise and the Liberty Girls" is concerned with the strong anti-German sentiments in the United States during World War I.
In what country is Mary? [SEP] St Mary's Town and Country School  St. Mary's Town and Country School was an independent, non-denominational, co-educational progressive day and boarding school, founded in Belsize Park, London in 1937. It closed at the end of 1982.  The school was owned and run by Mrs Elisabeth Paul PhD (née Selver), assisted by her husband Henry Paul, Elisabeth Paul's father David was a former rabbi in Darmstadt, Heinz Paul was a German Protestant. Both emigrated in 1936 from Berlin to London where in 1937 they bought the school, originally called St. Mary's School, at 1 Belsize Avenue. The school curriculum was biased toward the learning of languages and the arts from an early age, and the pupils, aged 4 to 18 years, were primarily the children of artists, musicians, writers, film producers and actors.
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]  Lubsza (Leubusch) is a village in Brzeg County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Lubsza. It lies approximately 7 km north-east of Brzeg and 41 km north-west of the regional capital Opole. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see Territorial changes of Poland after World War II).
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]  Lubsza is a river in Lubusz Voivodeship, Poland. It is a tributary of Lusatian Neisse (Nysa Łużycka) near Gubin.
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]  Nowy Świat (Neue Welt) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubsza, within Brzeg County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It lies approximately 9 km east of Lubsza, 13 km north-east of Brzeg, and 37 km north-west of the regional capital Opole. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see Territorial changes of Poland after World War II).
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]  Książkowice (Buchengrund) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubsza, within Brzeg County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It lies approximately 10 km north-east of Lubsza, 16 km north-east of Brzeg, and 40 km north-west of the regional capital Opole. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see Territorial changes of Poland after World War II).
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]  Lubstynek (Klein Lobenstein) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lubawa, within Iława County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km north-east of Fijewo (the gmina seat), 23 km east of Iława, and 50 km south-west of the regional capital Olsztyn. The village was ceded to Poland after the East Prussian plebiscite in 1920.
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP] Lubsza, Opole Voivodeship  Lubsza () is a village in Brzeg County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Lubsza. It lies approximately north-east of Brzeg and north-west of the regional capital Opole.
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP]
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP] Gmina Lubsza  Gmina Lubsza is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Brzeg County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Its seat is the village of Lubsza, which lies approximately north-east of Brzeg and north-west of the regional capital Opole.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2019 its total population is 8,992.  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Stobrawa Landscape Park.
In what country is Gmina Lubsza? [SEP] Lubsza, Silesian Voivodeship  Lubsza () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Woźniki, within Lubliniec County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland. It lies approximately east of Lubliniec and north of the regional capital Katowice.  The village has an approximate population of 1,000.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP]  Tsutsui Station (筒井駅) is a railway station on the Aoimori Railway Line in the city of Aomori in Aomori Prefecture, Japan, operated by the third sector railway operating company Aoimori Railway Company.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP]  The station consists of two elevated side platforms serving two tracks. The platforms are long enough to handle four-car trains. The station is unstaffed. A ticket vending machine, waiting room, and lifts to the platforms are located on the ground floor level.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Japanese National Railway logo.svg Japan National Railways ; Tōhoku Main Line – currently Aoimori Logo.jpeg Aoimori Railway Line ; No train station was extant in the town; however Tsutsui Station was opened to serve the area of the former town in 2014.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP]  Tsutsuishi Station (筒石駅) is a railway station in Itoigawa, Niigata, Japan, operated by Echigo Tokimeki Railway.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP]  Tsutsui Station is served by the 123.3 km Aoimori Railway Line between and, and is located between  and Aomori stations.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Tsutsui Station  Tsutsui Station may refer to:
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Tsutsui Station (Nara)  Tsutsui Station (筒井駅) is a railway station in Yamatokōriyama, Nara Prefecture, Japan. It is on the Kintetsu Kashihara Line.
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Tsutsui Station (Aomori)
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Tsutsui, Aomori
In what country is Tsutsui Station? [SEP] Tsutsuishi Station
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP]  Edmundston is a city in Madawaska County, New Brunswick, Canada.
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP]  Edmundston is located at the edge of the New Brunswick "panhandle," nestled in the northeastern section of the Appalachian Mountains at the junction of the Saint John and Madawaska Rivers in the northwestern part of the province. Edmundston is strategically situated only a few kilometres from the border with Quebec and on the border with the United States, opposite the town of Madawaska, Maine, to which it is connected by the Edmundston–Madawaska Bridge.
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP]  is shipped across the border through a mile-long high pressure pipeline running between both facilities, and is made into paper in Madawaska. The Madawaska mill specializes in fine-grade papers. The town's economy is highly dependent upon cross-border trade, to the extent that Edmundston and its smaller sister city of Madawaska are considered by residents under many aspects, a single economic entity. An illuminated sign and plastics manufacture owned by Pattison Sign is also important to the city's economy. IPL, a company that manufactures plastic eating utensils, has a facility in Edmundston. The city is the site of the regional hospital for the area. There is a campus of the French language University of Moncton in Edmundston. The New Brunswick Community college system has a campus in Edmundston.
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP] Cathedral of Immaculate Conception: Built in 1924, the cathedral's architecture is said to be a synthesis of Roman and Gothic styles. Its granite facade has been recently restored, and can accommodate more than 1,200 people. ; Fortin du Petit-Sault: Erected at the culmination of the boundary disputes between the United States of America and British North America (an international conflict known as Aroostook War) in 1841 prior to the signing of the Webster-Ashburton Treaty. This small fort was rebuilt in 2000. Edmundston hosts two provincial historical sites: Other tourist attractions include de la République Provincial Park, an 18-hole golf course, a
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP]  Edmundston is a rural town whose economy centres on the Saint John River paper industry. The river historically provided water power for the mills and was the route of log drives bringing pulpwood from upstream forests. The river still provides the water supply for paper manufacture, but environmental concerns encourage pulpwood delivery by highway and rail. Forestry is one of the city's major industries, with several sawmills and paper plants in the vicinity, the largest being the Twin Rivers pulp mill, formerly owned by Fraser Papers, now owned by Norbord, by way of Noranda Forest (1998) and Nexfor (2004). The Edmundston pulp mill is paired with a Twin Rivers paper mill directly across the Saint John River in Madawaska, Maine, through which liquified pulp slurry is piped. The
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP] Edmundston  Edmundston is a city in Madawaska County, New Brunswick, Canada.  On 1 January 2023, Edmundston will expanded, annexing the village of Rivière-Verte and parts of the local service districts of the parish of Saint-Jacques and the parish of Saint-Joseph.
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP] List of radio stations in New Brunswick  The following is a list of radio stations in the Canadian province of New Brunswick, .
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP]
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP] Republic of Madawaska  The Republic of Madawaska () was a putative republic in the northwest corner of Madawaska County, New Brunswick (also known as the "New Brunswick Panhandle") and adjacent areas of Aroostook County in the US state of Maine and of Quebec. The word "Madawaska" comes from the Miꞌkmaq words "madawas" (place of) and "kak" (porcupine). Thus, the Madawaska is "the country of the porcupine". The Madawaska River which flows into the Saint John River at Edmundston, New Brunswick, and Madawaska, Maine, flows through the region.
In what country is Edmundston? [SEP] Madawaska County, New Brunswick  Madawaska County (2016 population 32,741 is located in northwestern New Brunswick, Canada. Over 90% of the county's population speaks French. Its Francophone population are known as "Brayons." Forestry is the major industry in the county.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP]  Razan Malash is a Palestinian journalist, television presenter and correspondent for several TV channels in Spain and Portugal. Born in Jerusalem, Razan lived and worked in Palestine, Turkey and then moved to Madrid, where she obtained her PhD on the use of propaganda in radical groups. She currently collaborates with a variety of media channels, feminist and human rights associations. In January 2019, one of her tweets expressing solidarity with civilians suffering from the war in Yemen, aroused controversy in Saudi Arabia and led to her being banned from appearing on Saudi Sports channels followed by a harassment campaign on social media.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP]  Razan Ghazzawi (رزان غزاوي; born 1980) is a Syrian-American blogger, campaigner and activist and currently a PhD researcher at the University of Sussex. She has been highly involved in the events during the Syrian Civil War, and has been particularly outspoken on activists' arrests and the violations of human rights committed by the Bashar al-Assad government. She was called "iconic blogger and leading activist" by The Telegraph. Jillian York (who has been called "one of the leading scholars on Internet control and censorship" ) wrote that Ghazzawi was "one of [her] heroes."
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP]  Razan-Say is a village in Jalal-Abad Region of Kyrgyzstan. It is part of the Aksy District. Its population was 305 in 2021.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP]  Razan (, also Romanized as Razān) is a village in Kuhestan Rural District, Kelardasht District, Chalus County, Mazandaran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 63, in 13 families.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP]  Razan Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Razan County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 15,554, in 3,578 families. The rural district has 26 villages.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP] Shah Rahzan  Shah Rahzan (, also Romanized as Shāh Rāhzan; also known as Boneh-ye Shāh Rezā ‘Arab, Bunneh Shāh Rahzan Arab, and Shāh Rāzan) is a village in Qaleh Tall Rural District, in the Central District of Bagh-e Malek County, Khuzestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 68, in 16 families.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP] Rahzan  Rahzan (, also Romanized as Rāhzān and Rāhezān; also known as Rāhizān) is a village in Mashhad-e Miqan Rural District, in the Central District of Arak County, Markazi Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 190, in 52 families.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP] Miqan Wetland  Miqan Wetland is a wetland located in Markazi province, Iran. In years with good rainfall, the wetland has significant water level and in the years with less rain, the surface of the wetland generally dries and becomes a desert. The height of the wetland is 1700 meters above sea level and the water inside of it varies in different seasons. Miqan is supplied from different water sources such as rainfall, water of three rivers known as Qarah Kahriz (Koohrood) River, Farahan River, Shahrab River, and Arak ‘s wastewater treatment sewage. The area of the wetland is about 25,000 hectares, which includes a lake with three islands in the middle and the surrounding plains. Archaeologically, the wetland's formation dates back to the Paleocene, which was due to the movement of the surrounding tectonic plates of the earth.  The Miqan Wetland has special ecological features, including the fact that it hosts a large number of migratory birds each year, among which some rare and protected species can be seen. This wetland has become one of the most important environments in the country due to the high population of Gruidaes (Grus). The vegetation of the region is more of saline plants or halophytes, which makes the wetland an important resource of halophytes in the country. In addition to birds, mammal species, artemia (brine shrimps), and saltwater algae are other living things in the wetland and its surroundings.
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP] Currency  A currency is a standardization of money in any form, in use or circulation as a medium of exchange, for example banknotes and coins. A more general definition is that a currency is a "system of money" in common use within a specific environment over time, especially for people in a nation state. Under this definition, the British Pound Sterling (£), euros (€), Japanese yen (¥), and U.S. dollars (US$)) are examples of (government-issued) fiat currencies. Currencies may act as stores of value and be traded between nations in foreign exchange markets, which determine the relative values of the different currencies. Currencies in this sense are either chosen by users or decreed by governments, and each type has limited boundaries of acceptance - i.e. legal tender laws may require a particular unit of account for payments to government agencies.  Other definitions of the term "currency" appear in the respective synonymous articles: banknote, coin, and money. This article uses the definition which focuses on the currency systems of countries.  One can classify currencies into three monetary systems: fiat money, commodity money, and representative money, depending on what guarantees a currency's value (the economy at large vs. the government's physical metal reserves). Some currencies function as legal tender in certain jurisdictions, or for specific purposes, such as payment to a government (taxes), or government agencies (fees, fines). Others simply get traded for their economic value.  Digital currency has arisen with the popularity of computers and the Internet. Whether digital notes and coins will be successfully developed remains dubious. Decentralized digital currencies, such as cryptocurrencies are different as they are not issued by a government monetary authority. Many warnings issued by various countries note the opportunities that cryptocurrencies create for illegal activities, such as money laundering and terrorism.<ref> </ref> In 2014 the United States IRS issued a statement explaining that virtual currency is treated as property for Federal income-tax purposes and providing examples of how longstanding tax principles applicable to transactions involving property apply to virtual currency.<ref> </ref>
In what country is Rahzan? [SEP] Ra's al Ghul  Ra's al Ghul is a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, commonly as an adversary of the superhero Batman. Created by editor Julius Schwartz, writer Dennis O'Neil and artist Neal Adams, the character first appeared in "Batman" #232's "Daughter of the Demon" (June 1971).  Most notable as the leader of the League of Assassins, Ra's al Ghul's name in Arabic translates to "Head of the Ghoul". He is the son of Sensei; the father of Talia al Ghul, Nyssa Raatko and Dusan al Ghul; and the maternal grandfather of Damian Wayne. Stories featuring Ra's al Ghul often involve the Lazarus Pits, which restore life to the dying. The Lazarus Pits have considerably prolonged Ra's' life, making him particularly dangerous as he has honed his combat skills for centuries.  Ra's al Ghul has been featured in various media adaptations. The character was portrayed by David Warner in the DC Animated Universe, Liam Neeson in "The Dark Knight" Trilogy, Jason Isaacs in "", Dee Bradley Baker in the "" video game series, Matt Nable in the Arrowverse television series, and Alexander Siddig in "Gotham".  IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Villains of All Time List ranked Ra's as No. 7.
In what country is Kozići? [SEP]  Kozići is a village in the Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. According to the 1991 census, the village is located in the municipality of Rogatica.
In what country is Kozići? [SEP] 🇧🇬 Kazanlak, Bulgaria ; 🇭🇺 Szigetszentmiklós, Hungary ; 🇹🇷 Yenifoça, Turkey ; Križevci, Croatia ; 🇺🇦 Pereyaslav, Ukraine ; 🇷🇸 Novi Kneževac, Serbia ; 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 Gosport, England Kočani maintains partnership links with the following places:
In what country is Kozići? [SEP]  Razići (Cyrillic: Разићи) is a settlement in the municipality of Konjic, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the northern hamlet of the village of Glavatičevo.
In what country is Kozići? [SEP]  Kozica (Cozizza) is a small village in the Split-Dalmatia County of Croatia. It is in the jurisdiction of Vrgorac, 80 km southeast of Split. It lies just below Sveti Mihovil mountain, which is 1247 m high.
In what country is Kozići? [SEP] 🇹🇷 Hacılar, Turkey ; 🇹🇷 Meram, Turkey ; 🇪🇸 Reus, Spain Hadžići is twinned with:
In what country is Kozići? [SEP]
In what country is Kozići? [SEP]
In what country is Kozići? [SEP] Christmas in Serbia  Serbian Christmas traditions are customs and practices of the Serbs associated with Christmas and a period encompassing it, between the third Sunday before Christmas Day and Epiphany. There are many, complex traditions connected with this period. They vary from place to place, and in many areas have been updated or watered down to suit modern living. The Serbian name for Christmas is "Božić" (, pronounced ), which is the diminutive form of the word "bog" ("god"), and can be translated as "young god". Christmas is celebrated for three consecutive days, starting with Christmas Day, which the Serbs call the first day of Christmas. On these days, one is to greet another person by saying "Christ is Born," which should be responded to with "Truly He is Born," or in Serbian: ""Hristos se rodi"" (pronounced ) – ""Vaistinu se rodi"" (pronounced ).
In what country is Kozići? [SEP] Ave Imperator, morituri te salutant  Avē Imperātor, moritūrī tē salūtant ("Hail, Emperor, those who are about to die salute you") is a well-known Latin phrase quoted in Suetonius, "De vita Caesarum" ("The Life of the Caesars", or "The Twelve Caesars"). It was reportedly used during an event in AD 52 on Lake Fucinus by naumachiarii—captives and criminals fated to die fighting during mock naval encounters—in the presence of the emperor Claudius. Suetonius reports that Claudius replied ""Aut nōn"" ("or not").  Variant components in the exchange include ""Have"" as the first word instead of the grammatically proper ""Avē"", as well as the alternate wordings ""Avē Caesar"" and ""Moritūrī tē salūtāmus""—the latter in the 1st person ("We who are about to die salute you")—and a response in 15th-century texts of ""Avete vos"" ("Fare you well").  Despite its popularization in later times, the phrase is not recorded elsewhere in Roman history. Historians question whether it was ever used as a salute. It was more likely an isolated appeal by desperate captives and criminals condemned to die, and noted by Roman historians in part for the unusual mass reprieve granted by Claudius to the survivors.
In what country is Kozići? [SEP] to its elevation Kozica has its own microclimate which differs from the Dalmatian Coast. Kozica is situated on a plateau in between two mountains, Biokovo and Sveti Mihovil. Tourism has started in Kozica and it is becoming popular for cyclists who tour the region and its rocky landscape. Kozica's natural beauty is also an attraction in the summer. Kozica is a small Mediterranean mountain village which is 20 minutes by car from the nearest beach. Kozica is also home to various palm trees and many other types of flora. Kozica's landscape is a mixture of natural and man-made structures. Tourism
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]  Valdearcos de la Vega is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 115 inhabitants.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]  Vega de Valdetronco is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 162 inhabitants.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]  Vega de Valcarce (A Veiga de Valcarce in Galician language) is a village and municipality located in the region of El Bierzo (province of León, Castile and León, Spain). According to a census (INE), the municipality has a population of 865 inhabitants. The mayoress is María Luisa González Santín. The village is at an altitude of 631 m (2070.21 ft), and the average rainfall is around 622.05mm (24.49 in). The village is along the route of the Camino de Santiago, which brings tourists in the spring and summer months. There are several accommodations for these tourists. The Valcarce River runs through the village, and there are various tourist attractions throughout the village and surrounding the village as well. It is one of Galician speaking councils of Castilla y León The village recognizes many of the religious holidays celebrated by the average Spaniard.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]  Vega de Liordes, an enclave in the Leon sector of Picos de Europa belonging to the municipality of Posada de Valdeón registered -35.8 C on January 7, 2021.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]  Villademor de la Vega is a municipality located in the province of León, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2013 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 390 inhabitants.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP] Valdearcos de la Vega  Valdearcos de la Vega is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 115 inhabitants.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP] Curiel de Duero  Curiel de Duero is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. It covers an area of 18,75 km, has a population of 134 inhabitants, yielding a density of 6,93 inhabitants/km. It belongs to the Valle del Cuco and the county (Spanish: Comarca) of Campo de Peñafiel. The municipalities of San Llorente, Corrales de Duero, Valdearcos de la Vega, and Bocos de Duero also belong to the Valle del Cuco. Roturas, that borders north to Curiel De Duero, historically also belonged to Curiel, but has in modern times not been included into the Valle del Cuco county. In 1900, Curiel had its peak of 590 inhabitants.  The economy is based on agricultural dryland farming, vineyards, and domestic sheep keeping. Curiel has several wineries, belonging to the Denominación de Origen Ribera del Duero.
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]
In what country is Valdearcos de la Vega? [SEP]
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP]  The Vadu Crișului - Aștileu Canal (called colloquially Canalu de Apă) is a canal in Bihor County, Romania. It diverts part of the discharge of the river Crișul Repede for the supply of the Aștileu hydroelectric plant with an installed capacity of 2.8 MW. It is 14.5 km long. The canal was built in 1954. It starts near the village of Vadu Crișului and runs parallel to the course of the Crișul Repede, running in the proximity of the villages Birtin, Dobricionești, Josani, Măgești and Aștileu, finally connecting with the Crișul Repede near the town of Aleșd. The canal also catches the discharges of the tributaries of the Crișul Repede it intersects.
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP]  The Ojdula (also: Orbai) is a left tributary of the Râul Negru in Romania. It flows into the Râul Negru near the city Târgu Secuiesc. Its length is 19 km and its basin size is 48 km2.
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP]  District is located in the Nistru river basin. The main river crossing district is Raut (286 km), with its tributaries Ciuluicul Mare and Ciuluc de Mijloc. Most lakes are artificial. The largest lake is Lake Verejeni built on Ciuluicul Mare.
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP] Left: Iarului, Scorota, Scocu Urzicaru, Pleșa, Buta, Lazăr, Valea Ursească, Toplița, Pilug, Valea de Brazi, Furu, Valea Șerpilor, Sterminos, Mierleasa, Crevedia, Aninoasa ; Right: Șarba, Știrbu, Ursu, Jidanu, Pârâul Rece, Pârâul lui Stan, Valea Boului, Gârbov, Rostovanu, Strugu, Valea de Pești, Pietroasa, Valea Arsă, Pârâul Seciului, Balomir, Tușul, Braia, De La Hagher, Sohodol, Baleia, Pârâul Mare, Merișoara, Valea Ungurului, Pârâul Pinului The following rivers are tributaries to the river Jiul de Vest (from source to mouth):
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP]  The district is in the Black Sea basin, and the main river is the 183 km Cogâlnic. Most lakes are man-made.
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP]
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP] rivers are tributaries to the river Cibin: Left: Râul Mic, Breaza, Săliște (near Orlat), Rusciori, Hârtibaciu (near Veştem) Right: Râul Mare, Valea Cărbunarului, Valea Mare, Mărăjdia, Valea Lupului, Trinkbach, Valea Aurie, Valea Săpunului, Sebeş, Cisnădie, Râul Tocilelor, Pârâul Sărății, Sadu (near Tălmaciu), Lungșoara Cibin Cibin (; ) is a river in central Romania, in the south part of Transylvania. Its source is in the Cindrel Mountains (known also as Cibin Mountains) of the Southern Carpathian Mountains. The river is formed at the confluence of two headwaters: Râul Mare and Râul Mic. The river flows entirely in Sibiu County. The source
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP] Hârtibaciu The Hârtibaciu (German: "Harbach", Hungarian: "Hortobágy") is a river in the Transylvania historical region of Romania. It develops in the South Carpathians and flows into the Cibin, a tributary of the Olt, in Mohu, southeast of Sibiu. It flows through the towns and villages Bărcuț, Retiș, Brădeni, Netuș, Agnita, Benești, Alțâna, Nocrich, Hosman, Cornățel and Cașolț. King Géza II of Hungary settled the initial Transylvanian Saxon colonists along the Hârtibaciu, referred to by them as the "Harbach". The Saxons established many towns along the river such as Agnita with "Kirchenburgen", or fortified churches. The following rivers are tributaries to
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP] are tributaries to the Crișul Negru: Crișul Negru (river) The Crișul Negru (Romanian), () is a river in western Romania (Transylvania) and south-eastern Hungary (Békés county). The river starts at the confluence of headwaters Crișul Poienii and Crișul Băiței in the western Apuseni Mountains. It flows through the towns Ștei and Beiuș in Romania. One its tributaries is the small Roșia River. Crossing the border of Hungary the river, now called Fekete-Körös, joins the Fehér-Körös a few kilometres north from Gyula to form the Körös river. Part of the water from the river Crișul Repede is diverted towards the Crișul
In what country is Ciucurul Orbului River? [SEP] from the settlement "Rădăciei's mouth" and "Dacian's head", took her family and migrated through the valley of a river towards the Ciortolom's peak. The Oarba family members have cut down the forests to build houses, for cattle breeding and for agriculture. The descendants of this woman took her name calling themselves the followers of Oarba, and residents of neighbouring villages called them Orbenari. The creek crossing the valley received the name of those who possessed it - Orbenarilor Creek. Orbeni Orbeni is a commune in Bacău County, Romania. It is composed of two villages, Orbeni and Scurta. Orbeni is situated
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP]  Gaustadalléen is a tram stop on the Ullevål Hageby Line of the Oslo Tramway. It is located where the road Gaustadalléen passes under Ring 3 in Gaustad in Oslo, Norway. The station opened on 1 June 1999 as part of the extension of the Ullevål Hageby Line to Rikshospitalet. It is served by line 17 and 18, using SL95 low-floor trams, giving the station step-free access to the vehicles.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP]  Gaustad is a rapid transit station of the Oslo Metro's Holmenkollen Line. It is situated Gausad neighborhood of the Oslo, Norway, borough of Vestre Aker. Located 4.7 km from Stortinget, the station is served by Line 1 of the metro every fifteen minutes. Travel time to Stortinget is ten minutes. The National Hospital and several research institutes fall within the station's catchment area. The station opened on 31 May 1898. A station building was constructed in 1903, and served as a waiting room until 1916. From then a waiting shed was used. The station is being considered for a lengthening of the platforms, but this is difficult due to it being located in a sharp curve.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP]  Gaustad is a neighborhood in Nordre Aker borough of Oslo, Norway. It is located between Vinderen and Kringsjå. At Gaustad are The National Hospital and Gaustad Hospital, as well as residential areas that border to Nordmarka. The area is served by Rikshospitalet Station on the Ullevål Hageby Line of Oslo Tramway, and Gaustad Station on the Holmenkoll Line of Oslo T-bane. Ring 3 runs through the neighborhood.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP]   Gaustad Hospital (Gaustad sykehus) is a psychiatric hospital in the neighborhood of Gaustad in Oslo, Norway. Founded in 1855, it is Norway's oldest purpose-built psychiatric hospital. It opened as the nation's first insane asylum designed according to the guidelines in the Insane Act of 1848 (Sinnssykeloven). The facility was planned by Herman Wedel Major, based on the model of foreign institutions, and the building complex was designed by architect Heinrich Ernst Schirmer. During the occupation of Norway in 1940–1945, the hospital's workers, knowing German soldiers would send their patients to concentration camps, devised a plan to save them. For months, they collected urine in buckets. When the day came that the soldiers knocked on the door, they threw the urine on every radiator and heater, creating a tremendous stink. The soldiers left and didn't return, and the patients' lives were saved. The hospital was owned by the State until it was taken over by the City of Oslo in 1985. Since 1996, Gaustad Hospital been part of Aker University Hospital; and since January 2009, Aker University Hospital has been part of Oslo University Hospital, a subsidiary of the Southern and Eastern Norway Regional Health Authority.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP]  Rikshospitalet is a light rail tram stop at the end of the Ullevål Hageby Line of the Oslo Tramway. It is located at Rikshospitalet, the Norwegian National Hospital, at Gaustad in Oslo, Norway. The station opened on 1 June, 1999 as part of the line extension when the hospital opened. The expansion was financed by Oslo Package 2. The station is served by lines 17 and 18, using SL95 low-floor trams. This allow step-free access from and to all stations until the city center. Trams operate each five minutes. The next station is Gaustadalléen. In the past line 10. Rikshospitalet-Jar, used to operate here.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP] Nordre Aker  Nordre Aker (Northern Aker) is a borough of the city of Oslo, Norway.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP] Ragnar Frisch  Ragnar Anton Kittil Frisch (3 March 1895 – 31 January 1973) was an influential Norwegian economist known for being one of the major contributors to establishing economics as a quantitative and statistically informed science in the early 20th century. He coined the term econometrics in 1926 for utilising statistical methods to describe economic systems, as well as the terms microeconomics and macroeconomics in 1933, for describing individual and aggregate economic systems, respectively. He was the first to develop a statistically informed model of business cycles in 1933. Later work on the model together with Jan Tinbergen won the two the first Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 1969.  Frisch became dr.philos. with a thesis on mathematics and statistics at the University of Oslo in 1926"." After his doctoral thesis, he spent five years researching in the United States at the University of Minnesota and Yale University. After teaching briefly at Yale from 1930-31, he was offered a full professorship in economics, which he declined after pressures by colleagues to return to the University of Oslo. After returning to Oslo, Frisch was first appointed by the King-in-Council as Professor of Economics and Statistics at the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo (then the "Royal Frederick University") in 1931, before becoming leader of the newly founded Institute of Economics at the University of Oslo in 1932. He remained at the University of Oslo until his retirement in 1965.   Frisch was one of the founders of the Econometric Society in 1930, and edited the journal "Econometrica" for its first 21 years.<ref name=":0" />   Ragnar Frisch has given name to the Frisch Medal, which is awarded every year by the Econometric Society for the best paper in econometrics published in the last five years, as well as the Frisch-centre for Applied Economic Analysis at the University of Oslo. The Grand Auditorium at the Institute of Economics, University of Oslo also bears his name.
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP] Postal codes in Norway  Norwegian Postal Codes are four-digit codes, known in Norwegian as (literally 'post number'). Posten, the Norwegian postal service, makes small modifications to the postal code system each year. In 1999 Posten made considerable changes to the postal codes in Norway.  Since 18 March 1968 Norway has used a four-digit system: . The numbers start at 00 and increase with the distance from the capital city Oslo. The highest post numbers are found in the county of Finnmark, near the Russian border, where they start with 95–99. The lowest post code in use is 0001 (Oslo), the highest 9991 (Båtsfjord).
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP] the station spurred housing development in the area. After the 1940s the area also received some condominiums. The National Hospital was moved to Gaustad in 1999, falling within the catchment area of the station. The station closed in 2009 for the line to be upgraded, and opened again on 6 December 2010. There was not time for an outright upgrade to the stations, so Gaustad remains with its pre-upgrade platforms and amenities. The station is served by Line 1 of the Oslo Metro. During regular hours, it operates at a 15-minute headway. Travel time to Stortinget is ten minutes. Operations
In what country is Gaustadalléen? [SEP] Herbjørn Gausta Herbjørn Nilson Gaustå also Herbjorn Gausta (June 16, 1854 – May 22, 1924) was an American artist who is best known for his landscapes, portraits, and scenes from rural settings. He left an early record of immigrant life in his portraits and paintings and helped establish a place for art in the culture of Norwegian-Americans. Gausta was born on the Gausta farm in Mæl parish in the municipality of Tinn in Telemark county, Norway. In 1867, Gausta immigrated to America with his parents and four sisters, settling on a farm near Harmony, Minnesota. Gausta entered a training program
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]  Poręba-Kocęby is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brańszczyk, within Wyszków County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 10 km north-east of Brańszczyk, 20 km north-east of Wyszków, and 71 km north-east of Warsaw. The village has a population of 440.
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]  Poręby (Pòrãbë) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sierakowice, within Kartuzy County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north-west of Sierakowice, 21 km west of Kartuzy, and 49 km west of the regional capital Gdańsk. For details of the history of the region, see History of Pomerania. The village has a population of 79.
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]  Poręba is a town in Zawiercie County, Silesian Voivodeship, Poland, with 8,525 inhabitants (2019). The town has the area of 40 km2, and lies along National Road Nr. 78; it also has a rail station on a line from Miasteczko Śląskie to Zawiercie. Almost half of Poręba's area (49%) is covered by forests.
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]  Poręby Kupieńskie is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kolbuszowa, within Kolbuszowa County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 10 km south-east of Kolbuszowa and 20 km north-west of the regional capital Rzeszów.
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP] 🇭🇺 Kistelek, Hungary ; 🇺🇦 Vynnyky, Ukraine Poręba is twinned with:
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]
In what country is Poręba-Kocęby? [SEP]
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]  Dubicze Osoczne (Дубичі Осочні, Dubychi Osochni) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Hajnówka, within Hajnówka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 5 km west of Hajnówka and 49 km south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]  Dubne (Дубне, Dubne) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Muszyna, within Nowy Sącz County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, close to the border with Slovakia. It lies approximately 8 km south-east of Muszyna, 40 km south-east of Nowy Sącz, and 112 km south-east of the regional capital Kraków.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]  Dubné is a municipality and village in České Budějovice District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,700 inhabitants. Dubné lies approximately 9 km west of České Budějovice and 124 km south of Prague.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]  Dubicze Cerkiewne (Дубі́чы Цэрке́ўнэ, Dubíčy Cerkéŭnè) is a village in Hajnówka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Dubicze Cerkiewne. It lies approximately 13 km south-west of Hajnówka and 55 km south of the regional capital Białystok. The village has a population of approximately 1,900.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]  Český Dub (Böhmisch Aicha) is a town in Liberec District in the Liberec Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 2,800 inhabitants. The town centre is well preserved and is protected by law as an urban monument zone.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP] Dubicze Osoczne  Dubicze Osoczne (, "Dubychi Osochni") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Hajnówka, within Hajnówka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately west of Hajnówka and south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP] Dubicze Osoczne  Dubicze Osoczne (, "Dubychi Osochni") is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Hajnówka, within Hajnówka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately west of Hajnówka and south-east of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]
In what country is Dubicze Osoczne? [SEP]
In what country is Joys? [SEP] Germany (since 1995) ; Hungary (since 1998) ; Serbia (since 2003) ; Romania (since 2004) ; Czech Republic (since 2005) ; Russia (since 2006) ; Bulgaria (since 2006) ; Ukraine (since 2007) ; Indonesia (since 2011) Joy has 9 international editions:
In what country is Joys? [SEP]  as well as remakes of such hits as "Touch by Touch" and "Valerie". The album was released in Austria by the label Major Babies, and reached No. 21 in Austrian national chart. In September 2011 the album was released in Russia on the CD-Land label, and in Hungary – distributed by Hargent Media. On 15 July 2011, the trio performed in Estonia, at the Viljandi Retrofest for more than seven thousand viewers from Estonia and Latvia. In November 2011, Joy performed in Moscow once more – at the Diskoteka 80-x festival. This time the festival took place in the Olympic Stadium in Moscow. Since May 2012, Freddy Jaklitsch, due to his responsibilities as a leader of the popular band Seer, has performed with Joy less often. Michael Scheickl became Joy's lead vocalist for live shows.
In what country is Joys? [SEP]  USSR, where it reached No. 3 in the charts by Krugozor magazine in 1987. A few years later in Hungary, local group Inflagranty recorded a cover version entitled "Te meg en". Since 1986, Joy began performing on various TV shows, such as the GDR-based TV-show Kessel Buntes. In 1986, the trio recorded a second album, Joy and Tears. The album included the single "Japanese Girls". It reached No. 14 on the Austrian national chart, and their popularity had reached Asia. In 1986, the trio won the most popular international act in South Korea. Their Asian tour, which occurred on January and February 1987 in Bangkok, Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan and Seoul, was attended by more than 60,000 spectators. In
In what country is Joys? [SEP]  "Joys" is a song produced and recorded by Italian electronic/house DJ/remixer Roberto Surace, which samples The S.O.S. Band's 1986 single "The Finest". The song became Surace's first number one on both Billboards Dance Club Songs chart and joint ventured Shazam Ibiza dance charts (in its 12 October and 30 September 2019 issues, respectively), and in Australia on the ARIA Club Chart (in its 30 September 2019 issue).
In what country is Joys? [SEP]  Joy of Europe (Ρадост Европе / Radost Evrope) is a European dance festival with a long tradition. The annual event takes place in Belgrade, Serbia with 30 European nations showcasing their culture through dance and music. The European nations are usually accompanied by another country from another continent.
In what country is Joys? [SEP]
In what country is Joys? [SEP] Country Joy  Country Joy is a Canadian soap opera television series which aired on CBC Television from 1979 to 1980.
In what country is Joys? [SEP] Kinder Joy  Kinder Joy (formerly known as Kinder Merendero in Italy and Bahrain) is a candy made by Italian confectionery company Ferrero as part of its Kinder brand of products. It has plastic egg-shaped packaging that splits into two; one half contains layers of cocoa and milk cream, and the other half contains a toy and a spoon on top of the wrapper. Kinder Joy was first launched in Italy in 2001 and was sold in 170 countries.
In what country is Joys? [SEP] Anya Taylor-Joy  Anya-Josephine Marie Taylor-Joy ( ; born 16 April 1996) is an actress. She has won several accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, in addition to a nomination for a Primetime Emmy Award. In 2021, she was featured on "Time" magazine's 100 Next list.  Born in Miami and raised in Buenos Aires and London, Taylor-Joy left school at the age of 16 to pursue an acting career. After small television roles, she made her film debut with a leading role in the horror film "The Witch" (2015), before starring in the horror film "Split" (2016), its sequel "Glass" (2019), and the black comedy "Thoroughbreds" (2017). She won the Trophée Chopard at the 2017 Cannes Film Festival.  Taylor-Joy has since appeared in the fifth and sixth seasons of the television drama "Peaky Blinders" (2019–2022), and played Emma Woodhouse in the period drama "Emma" (2020), which gained her a Golden Globe nomination. Also in 2020, she received critical acclaim for her performance as chess prodigy Beth Harmon in the Netflix miniseries "The Queen's Gambit", winning a Golden Globe and a Screen Actors Guild Award. Taylor-Joy has since starred in "Last Night in Soho" (2021), "The Northman", and "The Menu" (both 2022), earning another Golden Globe nomination for the last of these.
In what country is Joys? [SEP] Joy McKean  Joy McKean , (born 14 January 1930), is an Australian country music singer-songwriter and wife and manager of the late Slim Dusty. Known as the "grand lady" of Australian country music, McKean is recognised as one of Australia's leading songwriters and bush balladeers and wrote several of Dusty's most popular songs. In 1973, she was awarded the first ever Golden Guitar, for writing "Lights on the Hill". She was inducted into the Australian Roll of Renown in 1983. The 2020 documentary film "Slim and I" told the story of her life and musical partnership with Dusty. The McKean-Dusty musical partnership produced over 100 albums, sold eight million records in Australia alone, and earned 45 Golden Guitars.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP]  Laksmipur is a village development committee in Kanchanpur District in Sudurpashchim Province of south-western Nepal. The former village development committee was converted into Municipality merging with existing Rampur Bilaspur, Laksmipur, Mahakali and Sripur village development committee on 18 May 2014. At the time of the 1991 Nepal census it had a population of 11,767.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP]  Mahakali (महाकाली अञ्चल) was one of the fourteen zones located in the Far-Western Development Region of Nepal, covering an area of 6,205 km2 in the most western part of the country. It stretches along Nepal's far western border with India, marked by the Kali River or Mahakali River. In 2015 Nepal discontinued use of zone designations in favor of provinces. The zone formerly known as Mahakali is now part of Sudurpashchim Province. Mahakali's headquarters is Bhimdatta (formerly called Mahendranagar) in Kanchanpur District. The zone covers the Himalayan range including Api Peak in the North, Hill valleys, Inner Terai valleys such as Patan Municipality in Baitadi District in the center and the outer Terai in the South. The name of this zone is derived from the Kali River.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP]  Laxmipur is a small town in Maharajganj district of Uttar Pradesh. It is located in eastern Uttar Pradesh. It is known for its first forest tramway of Asia or the Sohagi Barwa Sanctuary.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP]  Mahakali is a village development committee in Baitadi District in the Mahakali Zone of western Nepal. It is located on the Mahakali River which is also the border with Uttarakhand state, India across from Jhulaghat. Amraad and Basku are main places in this village. Indian and Nepalese nationals cross without restrictions, however there is a customs checkpoint for goods.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP]  Mahakali Zone hosts the Sukla Phanta Wildlife Reserve in Kanchanpur District in the Terai, which covers an area of 305 km2 and surrounded by a buffer zone of 243.5 km2.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP] Laxmipur, Kanchanpur  Laksmipur is a village development committee in Kanchanpur District in Sudurpashchim Province of south-western Nepal. The former village development committee was converted into Municipality merging with existing Rampur Bilaspur, Laksmipur, Mahakali and Sripur village development committee on 18 May 2014. At the time of the 1991 Nepal census it had a population of 11,767.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP] Belauri  Belauri,The former village development committee was converted into Municipality merging with existing Rampur Bilaspur, Laxmipur, Mahakali and Sripur village development committee on 18 May 2014. At the time of the 1991 Nepal census it had a population of 14,280 people living in 1877 individual households.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP] Laxmipur  Laxmipur may refer to:
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP] Rampur Bilaspur  Rampur Bilaspur is a town in Kanchanpur District in Sudurpashchim Province of south-western Nepal. The former village development committee was converted into Municipality merging with existing Rampur Bilaspur, Laxmipur, Mahakali and Sreepur, Mahakali village development committee on 18 May 2014. At the time of the 1991 Nepal census it had a population of 11,841 people living in 1650 individual households.
In what country is Laxmipur, Mahakali? [SEP] Kanchanpur District  Kanchanpur District ( ), a part of Sudurpashchim Province in the Terai plain, is one of seventy seven districts of Nepal. The district, with Bhimdatta as its district headquarters, covers an area of and had a population of 134,868 in 2001 and 171,304 in 2011. It is located in south-western of Nepal. It is bordered by Kailali district in the east, Dadeldhura district in the north and with India in the south and west.  Before the reunification of Nepal by Gorkha King Prithvi Narayan Shah, this district was part of the Doti Kingdom. Nepal lost it to the East India Company after the Anglo-Nepalese war (1814–1816). Then the Kingdom of Nepal and the East India Company followed by territorial concessions of Sugauli Treaty. Later on after the treaty of 1860, Nepal recovered this land along with Kailali, Banke and Bardiya. Its first headquarters was Belauri Municipality, and the current headquarter, Mahendranagr, was declared in 2019 B.S.  The majority of the population is ethnic Tharu community, and minor groups are the peoples that have migrated from the northern hilly region. The district is renowned for Shuklaphanta Wildlife Reserve and the long multi-span suspension bridge over Mahakali River.  Jhilmila Lake, Bedkot Lake, Bandatal, Shovatal, and Vishnu Temple, Ranital are the other tourist attractions.SOUL PEACE
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP]  Wiesau is a municipality in the district of Tirschenreuth in Bavaria, Germany.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP]   The Wiesau–Cheb railway was a major railway in the German state of Bavaria and the Czech Republic, which was originally part of the main line connecting Regensburg, Weiden and Eger (now Cheb), which was built and operated by the Bavarian Eastern Railway Company (Bavarian Ostbahn). In 1945 the line was closed at the border and since 2000 it has been closed completely except for a 3.6 km section.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP]   Wiesa is a locality in the town of Kamenz, Saxony. It is located in the southern part of town, south of the town centre, on the Black Elster in the district of Bautzen.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Wiernsheim, Germany (1982)
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP]  Wieża (Wiesa) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gryfów Śląski, within Lwówek Śląski County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany. It lies approximately 2 km south-west of Gryfów Śląski, 17 km south-west of Lwówek Śląski, and 116 km west of the regional capital Wrocław.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP] Wiesau  Wiesau is a municipality in the district of Tirschenreuth in Bavaria, Germany.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP] Tirschenreuth (district)  Tirschenreuth (Northern Bavarian: "Landgreis Tirschenreith") is a "Landkreis" (district) in the northeastern part of Bavaria, Germany. Neighboring districts are (from the south, clockwise) Neustadt an der Waldnaab, Bayreuth and Wunsiedel. To the east are the Czech districts of Tachov (Plzeň) and Cheb (Karlovy Vary).
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP]
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP] Tommy Wiseau  Thomas P. Wiseau ( or ) is an American actor and filmmaker. He is known for writing, producing, directing, and starring in the 2003 film "The Room", which has been described by many critics as one of the worst films ever made and has gained cult status. He also co-directed the 2004 documentary "Homeless in America" and created the 2015 sitcom "The Neighbors".  Many details about Wiseau's personal life (including his age, source of wealth, and background) remain unverified, and as such have been the subject of intense fan speculation and various conflicting reports.<ref name=cult/> The 2013 non-fiction book "The Disaster Artist: My Life Inside The Room, the Greatest Bad Movie Ever Made" by Greg Sestero, as well as its 2017 film adaptation, chronicle the making of "The Room" and Wiseau's life behind the scenes.
In what country is Wiesau? [SEP] Waldsassen  Waldsassen (Northern Bavarian: "Woidsassen") is a town in the district of Tirschenreuth in the Upper Palatinate region of Bavaria.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]  Lewałd Wielki (Groß Lehwalde) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dąbrówno, within Ostróda County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 3 km north-west of Dąbrówno, 28 km south of Ostróda, and 50 km south-west of the regional capital Olsztyn. The village has a population of 240.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]  Lewki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bielsk Podlaski, within Bielsk County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km south of Bielsk Podlaski and 43 km south of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]  Lewki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dąbrowa Białostocka, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 10 km west of Dąbrowa Białostocka, 35 km north-west of Sokółka, and 60 km north of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]  Lewsze is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Michałowo, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in northeastern Poland, near the border with Belarus.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]  Lewków is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ostrów Wielkopolski, within Ostrów Wielkopolski County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 13 km north-east of Ostrów Wielkopolski and 102 km south-east of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 3,670
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP] Lewałd Wielki  Lewałd Wielki (; ) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dąbrówno, within Ostróda County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately north-west of Dąbrówno, south of Ostróda, and south-west of the regional capital Olsztyn.  The village has a population of 240.
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP]
In what country is Lewałd Wielki? [SEP] Rogala coat of arms  Rogala is a Polish coat of arms, likely imported from Germany to Poland in 1109 by the Rogala or the Ribersztein family, that then added the second horn. It was used by several szlachta families in the times of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth.
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]  The station is located in an isolated rural area near the Oi River
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]  Kamio Station (神尾駅) is a railway station in the city of Shimada, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan, operated by the Ōigawa Railway.
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]  Kamiōoka Station (上大岡駅) is an internchange railway station located in Kōnan-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan, operated by the private railway operator Keikyū and the Yokohama Municipal Subway.
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]  Tomioka Station (富岡駅) is a railway station in the town of Tomioka, Fukushima, Japan, operated by the East Japan Railway Company (JR East). Built in 1898, the station was destroyed by a tsunami in March 2011, and only reopened six years later in October 2017.
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]  Kamuriki Station (冠着駅) is a train station in the village of Chikuhoku, Higashichikuma District, Nagano Prefecture, Japan, operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East).
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP] Kamioka Station
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP] Higashi-Hashisaki Station
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]
In what country is Kamioka Station? [SEP]
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]  Route 213 is a short two-lane north/south highway in the province of Quebec, Canada, which starts in Frelighsburg at the junction of Route 237 and ends in Dunham at the junction of Route 202. It is the shortest road in Quebec that is provincially signed.
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]  Route 212 is a two-lane east/west highway in the Estrie region in the province of Quebec, Canada. It begins in the city of Cookshire at a junction with Route 108 and runs through Newport, La Patrie and Notre-Dame-des-Bois before reaching its terminal at Route 161 in the village of Woburn.
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]  Route 215 is a two-lane north/south highway in Quebec, Canada. It starts in Sutton at the junction of Route 139 and links it to Brome and Fulford, in the northern part of Lac-Brome, where it ends at the junction of Route 243. It is the shortest link between Sutton and Autoroute 10.
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]  Route 216 is a two-lane east/west highway in Quebec, Canada, which starts in Sainte-Catherine-de-Hatley in the Estrie region at the junction of Route 108 and ends in Sainte-Perpétue in Chaudière-Appalaches at the junction of Route 204. Route 216 follows mostly a northeast/southwest course, and it is not a busy highway as it mostly links small villages between themselves in the backroads of the Appalachians. The only two major towns along the way are Sherbrooke and Sainte-Marie. Between Ham-Nord (junction with Route 161) and Saint-Jacques-le-Majeur-de-Wolfestown (junction with Route 263), the road is unpaved.
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]  Route 297 is short 25 km two-lane north/south highway in Quebec, Canada, which starts in Baie-des-Sables at the junction of Route 132 and ends in Saint-Moïse. The highway acts mainly as a shortcut between Baie-des-Sables and the southern section of Route 132 which leads to the Matapédia River Valley and the southern part of the Gaspé Peninsula.
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP] Quebec Route 213  Route 213 is a short two-lane north/south highway in the province of Quebec, Canada, which starts in Frelighsburg at the junction of Route 237 and ends in Dunham at the junction of Route 202. It is the shortest road in Quebec that is provincially signed.    <br>
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP] List of highways numbered 213  Route 213 or Highway 213 can refer to:
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP] Quebec Route 202  Route 202 is an east/west 140-kilometre highway in the Monteregie and Estrie regions of the province of Quebec, Canada. Its western terminus is at the junction of Route 132 in Sainte-Barbe and its eastern terminus is in southern Cowansville at the junctions of Route 104 and Route 139. The highway runs a few kilometres north of the Canada–United States border for most of its length.   <br>
In what country is Quebec Route 213? [SEP]
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]  Al Fajr Arabsalim Sporting Club (نادي الفجر الرياضي عربصاليم) is a football club based in Arabsalim, Nabatieh, Lebanon. They won the 2010–11 Lebanese Third Division with no losses in 21 consecutive games and were promoted to the Lebanese Second Division for the first time ever in their history.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]  Al Fajr (in Arabic الفجر meaning The Dawn in English) is an independent Arabic language daily newspaper published in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. The daily is one of the oldest publications in the country.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]  In recent years, Ghazi Falah has broadened his interests to include the geography of the media, focusing on the representation of Arabs and Muslims in daily newspapers in the U.S. His professional visits to Arab and Muslim countries include Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia, Lebanon, Syria, UAE, Kuwait, Bahrain, Oman, and Iran. At present, Ghazi Falah is a tenured Full Professor at the University of Akron and engaged in research on American bilateral relations with the Arab world. This new project is based on an extensive student opinion survey conducted at university campuses in Lebanon and Kuwait.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]  Kul al-Arab (كل العرب, meaning All Arabs) is an Israeli Arabic-language weekly newspaper, founded in 1987. Based in Nazareth, the paper is Israel's most influential and widely read Arabic-language periodical. It is also distributed in the West Bank. Kul al-Arab has 70 employees and a circulation of 38,000. According to the BBC the paper "is known primarily as a Christian paper" but "is trying to expand its Muslim audience." Most of the paper's revenue comes from advertising, and it is sometimes given away for free as a result. For some time the paper was edited by the poet Samih al-Qasim, who remains its honorary editor. In 2005, the BBC stated that the paper "is scathing of Israeli and US policies, but can be equally critical
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]  The Al-Fakkah Field, also known as Jebel Al-Fauqi or Jebal Al-Fauqi, is an oil field located in southern Iraq's Maysan Governorate and Khūzestān Province, Iran. The oil field produced 50000 oilbbl/d prior to the 2003 Iraq War and is part of the Maysan oilfield complex that altogether holds reserve of 2.5 Goilbbl. The oil field is considered shared but an area of dispute between Iraq and Iran. Iraq unsuccessfully put the oil field up for bidding in 2009.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP] Al Fajr Arabsalim SC  Al Fajr Arabsalim Sporting Club () is a football club based in Arabsalim, Nabatieh, Lebanon.  They won the 2010–11 Lebanese Third Division with no losses in 21 consecutive games and were promoted to the Lebanese Second Division for the first time ever in their history.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP] 2011–12 Lebanese FA Cup  The 2012 edition of the Lebanese FA Cup is the 40th edition to be played. It is the premier knockout tournament for football teams in Lebanon.  The winners qualify for the 2013 AFC Cup.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP] 2011–12 Lebanese Second Division  The 2011–12 Lebanese Second Division is the current 78th season of the second-highest level of Soccer in Lebanon. This season featured 14 Clubs divided into two sub-division groups.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP] 2015–16 Lebanese Third Division  The teams were divided into three groups of eight teams each. The first two teams of each group qualified to the playoffs and the first two teams qualified to the Second Division and replaced the relegated teams. The last two teams were submitted to the playoffs to decide which two of these five teams were relegated to the Fourth Division.
In what country is Al-Fajr Arabsalim? [SEP]
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]  Dąbkowice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Strzelce, within Kutno County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km east of Strzelce, 12 km north-east of Kutno, and 59 km north of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]  Dąbkowice Dolne is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łowicz, within Łowicz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km south-west of Łowicz and 43 km north-east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 309.
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]  Dąbkowice Górne is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łowicz, within Łowicz County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km south-west of Łowicz and 43 km north-east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 233.
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]  Dominikowice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Poddębice, within Poddębice County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 11 km west of Poddębice and 48 km west of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]  Dąbkowice (Eichhausen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wągrowiec, within Wągrowiec County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 13 km north-west of Wągrowiec and 53 km north of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 22.
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Dąbkowice, Łódź Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]  Borzymy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Grabowo, within Kolno County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 18 km east of Kolno and 76 km north-west of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]  Borzymy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Perlejewo, within Siemiatycze County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 6 km south-east of Perlejewo, 20 km north-west of Siemiatycze, and 74 km south-west of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]  Borzymy (Borschimmen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kalinowo, within Ełk County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 7 km south of Kalinowo, 22 km east of Ełk, and 144 km east of the regional capital Olsztyn.
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]  Kolno is a town in northeastern Poland, located in the Podlaskie Voivodeship, about 150 km northeast of Warsaw. It is the seat of Kolno County, and the seat of the smaller administrative district (gmina) called Gmina Kolno, but it is not part of this district, as the town has gmina status in its own right. Kolno has 10,730 inhabitants (2007).
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]  Tejstymy (Teistimmen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kolno, within Olsztyn County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km south-west of Kolno and 32 km north-east of the regional capital Olsztyn. Before 1772 the area was part of Kingdom of Poland, 1772-1945 Prussia and Germany (East Prussia).
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP] Borzymy, Kolno County  Borzymy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Grabowo, within Kolno County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately east of Kolno and north-west of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP] Borzymy  Borzymy may refer to the following places:
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]
In what country is Borzymy, Kolno County? [SEP]
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP] 🇪🇸 Crevillent, Spain ; 🇷🇴 Diosig, Romania ; 🇧🇫 Gaoua, Burkina Faso ; 🇵🇱 Krotoszyn, Poland ; 🇺🇸 Palatine, United States Fontenay-le-Comte is twinned with:
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP]  Fontenay-sous-Bois is a commune in the eastern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located 9.3 km from the center of Paris.
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP]  Fontenay-le-Comte is a commune and subprefecture in the Vendée department in the Pays de la Loire region of Western France. In 2018, it had a population of 13,302.
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP]  Fontenay-sur-Conie is a commune in the Eure-et-Loir department and Centre-Val de Loire region of north-central France. It lies 34 km south-southeast of Chartres and some 90 km south-west of Paris.
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP]  Fontenay-aux-Roses is a station on the line B of the Réseau Express Régional, a hybrid suburban commuter and rapid transit line. It is named after the town it is located in, Fontenay-aux-Roses.
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP] Fontenay-sous-Bois  Fontenay-sous-Bois () is a commune in the eastern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located from the center of Paris.
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP] Fontenay, Vosges  Fontenay () is a commune in the Vosges department in Grand Est in northeastern France. The inhabitants of Fontenay are called the "Fontenaysians".
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP] Fontenay-le-Vicomte  Fontenay-le-Vicomte () is a commune in the Essonne department in Île-de-France in northern France.  Inhabitants of Fontenay-le-Vicomte are known as "Fontenaysiens".
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP]
In what country is Fontenay? [SEP] Fontenay-aux-Roses  Fontenay-aux-Roses () is a commune in the southwestern suburbs of Paris, France. It is located from the center of Paris.  In 1880 a girls school École Normale Supérieure was opened in the town. It was one of the most prestigious of Paris and even of whole France in term of scientific research. It became a mixed school in 1986, and was relocated to Lyon in 2000.  Fontenay is the location of the Commissariat à l'énergie atomique, and former location of the first French nuclear reactor, Zoé, and the first French tokamak fusion experiment, TFR.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]  The Valea Seacă is a left tributary of the river Topolița in Romania. It flows into the Topolița in the village Topolița. Its length is 12 km and its basin size is 11 km2.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]  Valea Seacă is a commune in Bacău County, Western Moldavia, Romania. It is composed of two villages, Cucova and Valea Seacă. At the 2011 census, 64.3% of inhabitants were Romanians and 35.6% Roma.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP] Andrei Ursache
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]  Valea Seacă is a commune in Iași County, Western Moldavia, Romania. It is composed of three villages: Conțești, Topile and Valea Seacă.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]  The Valea Mare is a left tributary of the river Barcău in Romania. It discharges into the Barcău near Boghiș. Its length is 25 km and its basin size is 113 km2.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP] Moldova (river)  The Moldova () is a river in Romania, in the historical region of Moldavia. It is a right tributary of the river Siret. The river rises from the Obcina Feredeu Mountains of Bukovina in Suceava County and joins the Siret in Cotu Vameș, east of the city of Roman in Neamț County. The total length of the Moldova from its source to its confluence with the Siret is . Its basin area is .<ref name=rowater/><ref name=yearbook/>  The river gave its name to the Principality of Moldavia, whose first capital, "Târgul Moldovei" (now Baia), is on the Moldova River but its etymology is disputed.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP] Prahova (river)  The Prahova is a river of Southern Romania, which rises from the Bucegi Mountains, in the Southern Carpathians. It is a left tributary of the Ialomița. It flows into the Ialomița in Dridu Snagov. The upper reach of the river, upstream of the confluence with the river Azuga is sometimes called the "Prahovița".  It has a length of , of which are in Brașov County, are in Prahova County and the last are in Ialomița County.  The basin of the Prahova covers ,<ref name=yearbook/> which is about 75% of the area of Prahova County.
In what country is Valea Seacă River? [SEP]
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]  Punghina is a commune located in Mehedinți County, Oltenia, Romania. It is composed of five villages: Cearângu, Drincea, Măgurele, Punghina, Recea.
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]  Nonghin is a town in the Salogo Department of Ganzourgou Province in central Burkina Faso. The town has a population of 1,333.
In what country is Punghina? [SEP] Pungmul - South Korea and North Korea ; Khanjluri, Kazbeguri, Khevsuruli and Mtiuluri - Georgia ; Jangi - Azerbaijan ; Yarkhushta - Armenia ; Qilaut - Canada (Nunavut, Northwest Territories and Yukon), United States (Alaska), Denmark (Denmark) and Russia (Chukotka Autonomous Okrug) ; Karyenda - Burundi
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]  Pele Poughi was born in 1731 in either Avetaranots or Shosh village of Safavid Karabakh. He served as a jester in the court of Melik Shahnazar - the ruler of Varanda Principality. He created funny stories and fables, which, told from mouth to mouth, have been modified and supplemented, reaching modern days under his name. He died in 1810 in Shosh, and is believed to be buried in a cave between Shosh and Mkhitarishen villages, where a memorial monument was erected in 1976. Despite regretting his behaviour at his dawn, Armenians of Karabakh did not forgive Melik Shahnazar's collaboration with Panah Ali Khan and his hostile treatment the other Armenian meliks, and slammed him with satire via Pughi's character. Pughi - Shahnazar relationship is represented as ruler and jester, however
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]  The Coghinas is a river of northern Sardinia, Italy. With a length of 115 km, it is the third longest river of the island behind the Tirso and the Flumendosa. It has a drainage basin of 2551 km2. The Coghinas's springs are located on the Mountains of Alà, in the province Olbia-Tempio; after crossing the Anglona traditional region in its later course, it flows into the Gulf of Asinara in the area of the towns of Badesi and Valledoria. In order to capture excess water for use when needed, and for flood control and electricity generation, two dams have been built, which have created the Lake Coghinas and the Lake of Casteldoria.
In what country is Punghina? [SEP] Punghina  Punghina is a commune located in Mehedinți County, Oltenia, Romania. It is composed of five villages: Cearângu, Drincea, Măgurele, Punghina, Recea.
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]
In what country is Punghina? [SEP] Drincea  The Drincea is a left tributary of the river Danube in Romania. It discharges into the Danube near Cetate. Its length is and its basin size is .
In what country is Punghina? [SEP] NLE Choppa  Bryson Lashun Potts (born November 1, 2002), known professionally as NLE Choppa (previously YNR Choppa), is an American rapper from Memphis, Tennessee. He rose to fame with his 2019 single "Shotta Flow", which was certified platinum by the RIAA and peaked in the top-40 of the "Billboard" Hot 100. His debut EP, "Cottonwood", was also released in 2019.  NLE Choppa released his debut studio album, "Top Shotta", on August 7, 2020. It peaked in the top ten of the US "Billboard" 200 and included the singles "Camelot" and "Walk Em Down" (featuring Roddy Ricch), both of which peaked in the top 40 of the "Billboard" Hot 100. NLE Choppa's second mixtape, "From Dark to Light", was released on November 1 in the same year. His second commercial mixtape, "Me vs. Me", was released on January 28, 2022. Me vs. Me had a song that a final to a six part song Shotta Flow 6
In what country is Punghina? [SEP]
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]  Ormak (, also Romanized as Ārmak) is a village in Kuh Dasht Rural District, Neyasar District, Kashan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 300, in 121 families.
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]  Oil and Gas Industry Complex | Olunabad | Omidiyeh | Ordib | Ormak | Oshkohran | Owregan | Owshen-e Olya | Ozun Bolagh | Ozvar | Ozvar
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]  There are many churches and synagogues in this city, with the main part of the churches being in Julfa region. Some of the city's churches date back to the 17th century, the most famous and oldest being the Vank Cathedral, the St. Mary Church, Isfahan, St. Georg Church and St. Nerses Church.
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]  Churches in the city are mostly in the New Julfa region. Some of the historically important ones are Bedkhem Church – 1627, St. Georg Church – 17th century, St. Mary Church – 17th century, Vank Cathedral – 1664. The oldest one is St. Jakob Church – 1607.
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]  Isfahan railway station (Persian:ايستگاه راه آهن اصفهان, Istgah-e Rah Ahan-e Isfahan) is located in Isfahan, Isfahan Province, the third largest city and second largest metropolitan area of Iran. The station is owned by IRI Railway and currently has two tri-weekly services, one to Mashhad and one to Bandarabbas. The station is designed as a terminal station, with railways branching off of the main line and ending at the station. This has made some of the lines passing through Isfahan to bypass the station altogether, to save one to two hours of time wasted on going into the branch and reversing out. There is a metro station under construction at the station connecting the station to the city centre, and Isfahan's two main inter-urban bus terminals.
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP] Ormak, Isfahan  Ormak (, also Romanized as Ārmak) is a village in Kuh Dasht Rural District, Neyasar District, Kashan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 300, in 121 families.
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP]
In what country is Ormak, Isfahan? [SEP] Kuh Dasht Rural District  Kuh Dasht Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Neyasar District, Kashan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,174, in 850 families. The rural district has 10 villages.
In what country is Vera? [SEP]  .
In what country is Vera? [SEP]  .
In what country is Vera? [SEP]  Vera is a village in the municipality of Verdal in Trøndelag county, Norway. It is located on the northern shore of the lake Veresvatnet, about 4 km west of the border with Sweden, about 2 km south of the edge of Blåfjella–Skjækerfjella National Park, and about 40 km east of the village of Vuku. Vera is also a parish covering the eastern part of Verdal municipality, with Vera Chapel located in this village.
In what country is Vera? [SEP]  In New Zealand the series is shown on TV One and more recently on Vibe, a SKY channel. ; In Italy the series was shown on Giallo since October 10th 2016. ; In Germany the series was shown on ZDFneo before moving to Sat.1 Gold in June 2019. ; In Croatia the series is shown on HRT2. ; In Spain the series is shown on La 2, and TV3 in Catalan ; In Portugal the first series was shown on public broadcaster RTP2. It was repeated and subsequent series shown on Fox Crime from 2013. ; In Norway the series is shown on public service broadcaster NRK. ;
In what country is Vera? [SEP]  Vera is a city in the north of the province of Santa Fe, Argentina. It is the head town of the Vera Department and lies 256 km from the provincial capital (Santa Fe). It has a population of about 20,000 inhabitants. The town was founded in 1891 by M. Leiva and E. Alemán, soon after the arrival of the Ferrocarril Provincial de Santa Fe in February 1890, and became a city on 24 June 1954.
In what country is Vera? [SEP] Vera (TV series)  Vera is a British crime drama series based on the Vera Stanhope series of novels written by crime writer Ann Cleeves. It was first broadcast on ITV on 1 May 2011, and to date, eleven series have aired, with the latest debuting on 29 August 2021. The series stars Brenda Blethyn as the principal character, Detective Chief Inspector Vera Stanhope. In 2021, Ann Cleeves confirmed that the character of Vera was based on a neighbour of her maternal grandmother. The neighbour had been something of a busybody and her personality was the basis for Vera.  Vera is a nearly retired employee of the fictional 'Northumberland & City Police', who is obsessive about her work and driven by her own demons. She plods along in a constantly dishevelled state, but has a calculating mind and, despite her irascible personality, she cares deeply about her work and colleagues. She often proves her superior skills by picking up small errors in her team members' thought processes. Vera forms a close relationship with sergeants Joe Ashworth (David Leon) and Aiden Healy (Kenny Doughty).  On 27 August 2020, it was confirmed that the show had been renewed for an eleventh series. Its first four episodes aired in December 2021 and January 2022, with a further two episodes expected in later 2022. In March 2022, it was confirmed that a twelfth series had been commissioned and had begun filming.
In what country is Vera? [SEP] A Month in the Country (play)  A Month in the Country () is a play in five acts by Ivan Turgenev, his only well-known work for the theatre. Originally titled The Student, it was written in France between 1848 and 1850 and first published in 1855 as Two Women. The play was not staged until 1872, when it was given as "A Month in the Country" at a benefit performance for the Moscow actress Ekaterina Vasilyeva (1829–1877), who was keen to play the leading role of Natalya Petrovna.
In what country is Vera? [SEP] Vera Bradley  Vera Bradley Sales, LLC (d.b.a. Vera Bradley) is an American luggage and handbag design company, founded by Barbara Bradley Baekgaard and Patricia R. Miller in 1982. As of 2019, its home office is in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The company was named after Baekgaard's mother. Its original luxury cotton bag product lines have expanded to include fashion and home accessories, office supplies, and patterned gifts. Many items have distinctive florals, paisleys, or geometric prints with complementary linings, as well as elongated diamond quilting. The patterns were originally inspired by French Provençal country fabrics
In what country is Vera? [SEP] Vera Menchik  Vera Francevna Mencikova (, "Vera Frantsevna Menchik"; ; 16 February 1906 – 26 June 1944), was a Russian-born Czechoslovak chess player who primarily resided in England. She was the first Women's World Chess Champion from 1927 to 1944 and the longest-reigning women's champion in history. Her eight world championship wins are the most of all time, and only Emanuel Lasker had a longer reign as world champion.  Menchik was born in Moscow to a Czech father and half-English mother. She played her first chess tournament in school at age 14 after switching schools during the Russian Revolution. Because of the revolution, her family left Russia and Menchik moved to Hastings, England in 1921. She joined the Hastings Chess Club in 1923 and began training with James Drewitt, the club champion, and Géza Maróczy, a past contender for the World Championship. Menchik established herself as the best female player in the country by defeating the British women's champion Edith Charlotte Price in two matches in 1925 two years before winning the inaugural Women's World Chess Championship in 1927. A year later, she became the first woman to compete in master-level tournaments. After her first big success at Ramsgate in 1929 when she shared second place with Akiba Rubinstein, Menchik was regularly invited to these elite events for the next decade, including the local Hastings Congress. Her best result in the Hastings Premier tournament was in 1931/32 when she defeated future world champion Max Euwe and Mir Sultan Khan to finish in joint fifth place out of ten. One of her last big achievements was winning a match against Jacques Mieses in 1942 late in their careers. Menchik was active up until her death in 1944, when she was killed in a German air raid that destroyed her home with a flying bomb during the Second World War.  Menchik was the dominant female chess player before the war. She was the only woman competing at the master level, she won at least 59 games in a row at the Women's World Championship tournaments, and she defeated the consensus second-best player Sonja Graf in an official World Championship match in 1937. Highlights of her successes against male players included two victories and a positive score in tournament play against Euwe and a positive score in 29 known games against George Thomas, who received the International Master (IM) title. Any master-level players that Menchik defeated were said to be members of the Vera Menchik Club, which included six players who ended up receiving the Grandmaster (GM) or Honorary Grandmaster title. The trophy for the winning team at the Women's Chess Olympiad is named the Vera Menchik Cup in her honour. In 2011, Menchik became the first woman to be inducted into the World Chess Hall of Fame.<ref name="hof"/><ref name="first"/>
In what country is Vera? [SEP] Veracruz  Veracruz (), formally Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave (), officially the Free and Sovereign State of Veracruz de Ignacio de la Llave (), is one of the 31 states which, along with Mexico City, comprise the 32 Federal Entities of Mexico. Located in eastern Mexico, Veracruz is bordered by seven states, which are Tamaulipas, San Luis Potosí, Hidalgo, Puebla, Oaxaca, Chiapas, and Tabasco. Veracruz is divided into 212 municipalities, and its capital city is Xalapa-Enríquez.  Veracruz has a significant share of the coastline of the Gulf of Mexico on the east of the state. The state is noted for its mixed ethnic and indigenous populations. Its cuisine reflects the many cultural influences that have come through the state because of the importance of the port of Veracruz. In addition to the capital city, the state's largest cities include Veracruz, Coatzacoalcos, Córdoba, Minatitlán, Poza Rica, Boca Del Río and Orizaba.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]  Kukały is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Chynów, within Grójec County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 8 km south-west of Chynów, 10 km east of Grójec, and 39 km south of Warsaw.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]  Kuczyny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Stawiski, within Kolno County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north of Stawiski, 15 km east of Kolno, and 75 km north-west of the regional capital Białystok. The village has a population of 31.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]  Kuczyńskie is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kadzidło, within Ostrołęka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 3 km south-west of Kadzidło, 19 km north-west of Ostrołęka, and 115 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]  Kucze Wielkie (also known as Kucze Duże) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Jedwabne, within Łomża County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. Kucze is located some 148 km North-East of Warsaw in the historical region of Podlasie (Podlachia in English), on the outskirts of the Biebrza National Park.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]  Kurzawka (German Kuschofka, Kuschowka, 1939–1945 Kuschhofen; Silesian Kuszówka) is a settlement belonging to the sołectwo of Raszowa in the administrative district of Gmina Leśnica, within Strzelce County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (see Territorial changes of Poland after World War II).
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP] Kuczynka  Kuczynka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Krobia, within Gostyń County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland.  The village has a population of 90.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP]
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP] Gmina Krobia  Gmina Krobia is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Gostyń County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. Its seat is the town of Krobia, which lies approximately south of Gostyń and south of the regional capital Poznań.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 12,792 (out of which the population of Krobia amounts to 4,022, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 8,770).
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP] Kuczyna, Greater Poland Voivodeship  Kuczyna is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Krobia, within Gostyń County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately south of Krobia, south of Gostyń, and south of the regional capital Poznań.  The village has a population of 314.
In what country is Kuczynka? [SEP] Torn Curtain  Torn Curtain is a 1966 American political thriller film directed by Alfred Hitchcock, and starring Paul Newman and Julie Andrews. Written by Brian Moore, the film is set in the Cold War. It is about an American scientist who appears to defect behind the Iron Curtain to East Germany.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP]  West Wyomissing is located at 40.32278°N, -75.99444°W (40.322771, -75.994583). According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of 0.7 sqmi, all of it land.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP]  West Wyomissing is a census-designated place (CDP) in Spring Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 3,407 at the 2010 census.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP]  Wyomissing Creek is a 9.1 mi tributary of the Schuylkill River in Berks County, Pennsylvania in the United States. Wyomissing Creek joins the Schuylkill River at the boundary of West Reading Borough and the City of Reading, Pennsylvania. Wyomissing is a name derived from a Native American language purported to mean "place of flats".
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP]  Wyomissing is a thriving commercial office and retail center, in large part due to its proximity to Reading and its highway access. The Berkshire Mall is located in Wyomissing along with several other large shopping centers with their retail giants and restaurants. As crime soared in Reading throughout the 1990s, companies and corporations relocated from the city to newer, Class A office space in the borough. In addition to a suburban layout, the greater Wyomissing area is at the crossroads of U.S. Routes 422 and 222, providing immediate highway access to the rest of the greater Philadelphia and Berks County region. Several large corporations are headquartered in Wyomissing, including Penn National Gaming,
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] State House: Mark M. Gillen, 128th district ; State Senate: Judy Schwank, 11th district ; US House: Chrissy Houlahan, 6th district ; US Senate: Bob Casey Jr. and Pat Toomey Wyomissing is a first-class borough with a council-manager form of government. The manager is Pat Brandenburg. The council consists of nine members and elects a mayor from its ranks, who is Fred Levering. The Magisterial District Judge of Wyomissing (and West Reading) is Eric J. Taylor. The following legislators represent the borough:
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] West Wyomissing, Pennsylvania  West Wyomissing is a census-designated place (CDP) in Spring Township, Berks County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 3,407 at the 2010 census.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] Wyomissing, Pennsylvania  Wyomissing is a borough in Berks County, Pennsylvania, established on July 2, 1906. As of the 2020 census, the population was 11,114, compared to 10,461 at the 2010 census. The growth was significantly larger between 2000 and 2010 largely due to its merger in January 2002 with neighboring Wyomissing Hills. Wyomissing is the most populous borough in Berks County. The borough is recognized as a Tree City USA and selected as a "Contender" for the best places to live in Pennsylvania by "Money" magazine.  Wyomissing is located southwest of Allentown and northwest of Philadelphia.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] West Reading, Pennsylvania  West Reading is a borough in Berks County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 4,212 at the 2010 census. It contains a vibrant main street (Penn Avenue) and the large Reading Hospital and Medical Center. It was also the site of the VF Outlet Village, one of the largest outlet malls in the United States. The VF Outlet Village was located in the buildings of the former Berkshire Knitting Mills, which was in operation from 1908 to 1975. The VF Outlet closed in 2020.
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] Berks County, Pennsylvania  Berks County (Pennsylvania German: "Barricks Kaundi") is a county in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As of the 2020 census, the population was 428,849. The county seat is Reading.  The Schuylkill River, a tributary of the Delaware River, flows through Berks County. The county is part of the Reading, PA metropolitan statistical area (MSA), which is included in the Philadelphia-Reading-Camden, PA-NJ-DE-MD combined statistical area (CSA).
In what country is West Wyomissing? [SEP] Wyomissing Area School District  Wyomissing Area School District is a diminutive, suburban, public school district located in Berks County, Pennsylvania. The Wyomissing Area School District encompasses approximately . The district is the smallest one operating in Berks County. According to 2000 federal census data, it serves a resident population of 12,440. By 2010, the district's population declined to 12,359 people. In 2009, the district residents’ per capita income was $35,814, while the median family income was $70,875. In the Commonwealth, the median family income was $49,501  and the United States median family income was $49,445, in 2010. By 2013, the median household income in the United States rose to $52,100.  Wyomissing Area School District operates three schools: Wyomissing Area Junior/Senior High School, West Reading Elementary Center, and Wyomissing Hills Elementary Center. The district is one of 19 public school districts operating in Berks County, Pennsylvania. The district is one of the 500 public school districts of Pennsylvania. The West Reading School District and Wyomissing School District officially merged into the Wyomissing Area School over several years finalizing the process in 1969.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP]  The Tigray Region (ክልል ትግራይ; ትግራይ ክልል), officially the Tigray National Regional State (ብሔራዊ ክልላዊ መንግስቲ ትግራይ), is the northernmost regional state in Ethiopia. The Tigray Region is the homeland of the Tigrayan, Irob and Kunama people. Tigray is also known as Region 1 according to the federal constitution. Its capital and largest city is Mekelle. Tigray is the fifth-largest by area, the fifth-most populous, and the fifth-most densely populated of the 11 regional states. Tigray's official language is Tigrinya, similar to that spoken in Eritrea just to the North. The total population (based on the 2020 Census, CSA) is 7,070,260. The majority of the population (c. 80%) are agriculturalists, contributing 46% to the regional gross domestic product (2009). The highlands have the highest population density, especially in eastern and central Tigray. The much less densely populated lowlands comprise 48 per cent of Tigray's
In what country is Tigra? [SEP]  Tigray Province (Amharic, ትግራይ) is a historical province of northern Ethiopia that exists in the present day Afar and Tigray regions. It encompassed most of the territories of Tigrinya-speakers (and a few minority groups closely linked with them) in Ethiopia. Tigray was separated from the northern Tigrinya speaking territories by the Mareb River, now serving as the state border to Eritrea (formerly Eritrea Province before its independence). The great majority of inhabitants were Orthodox Christians (95.5% in 1994), with the exception of a small, but important Muslim subgroup (Jeberti) and a few Catholics (mainly Irob). Protestantism is only a very recent urban phenomenon.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP]  Tihlo is a dish unique to Adigrat and the wider Eastern Tigray. It is prepared by kneading barley flour into softballs and preparing a meat stew with berbere, an Ethiopian spice, onions, tomato paste, water, and salt. The dish is eaten using a fork-shaped twig, which is unique in Ethiopian cuisine. The beles, a cactus pear, grown in Adigrat is considered to be of high-quality. The city is renowned for its white honey and tej, an Ethiopian honey-wine.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP]  96 per cent of Tigrayans are Orthodox Christian. Tigray is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Sudan to the west, the Amhara Region to the south and the Afar Region to the east and southeast. Besides Mekelle, major cities include Adigrat, Aksum, Shire, Humera, Adwa, Adi Remets, Alamata, Wukro, Maychew, Sheraro, Abiy Adi, Korem, Qwiha, Atsbi, Hawzen, Mekoni, Dansha, Adi Gudom, Indabaguna, Mai Tsebri, and Zalambessa. The government of Tigray consists of the executive branch, led by the president; the legislative branch, which comprises the state council; and the judicial branch, which is led by the state supreme court. In early November 2020, a conflict between the Tigray Region, involving the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) and the Ethiopian federal government began, in which Eritrea took part on the side of the federal government, rapidly escalating into the Tigray War and destabilizing the region.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP]  The Opel Tigra name has been applied to two different cars engineered and produced by the German automaker Opel, both based on different iterations of the Corsa supermini, the first built in Spain, the second in France. The first Tigra was a small 2+2 coupé, produced from 1994 to 2001. The later compact hard topped convertible roadster model was introduced in May 2004. The Tigra was sold in the United Kingdom as the Vauxhall Tigra, in Australia as the Holden Tigra, and was sold in Brazil, Argentina and Mexico as the Chevrolet Tigra.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP] La Tigra, San Carlos  La Tigra is a district of the San Carlos canton, in the Alajuela province of Costa Rica. Section::::History. La Tigra was created on 5 February 1952 by Decreto Ejecutivo 15.<ref name="dta2017" /> Section::::Geography. La Tigra has an area of km² and an elevation of metres.<ref name="divadm" />  It is located in the northern region of the country and limits to the north with Florencia, to the south with San Ramón, to the east with Florencia and San Ramón.  Its head, the village of La Tigra, is located 27.9 km (48 minutes) to the east of Ciudad Quesada and 108 km (2 hours 36 minutes) to the northwest of San José the capital of the nation.  It is located at an elevation range of between 200 and 1100 meters above sea level.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP] Tigris  The Tigris () is the easternmost of the two great rivers that define Mesopotamia, the other being the Euphrates. The river flows south from the mountains of the Armenian Highlands through the Syrian and Arabian Deserts, and empties into the Persian Gulf.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP] Tigray Region  The Tigray Region, officially the Tigray National Regional State, is the northernmost regional state in Ethiopia. The Tigray Region is the homeland of the Tigrayan, Irob, and Kunama people. Its capital and largest city is Mekelle. Tigray is the fifth-largest by area, the fifth-most populous, and the fifth-most densely populated of the 11 regional states.  Tigray's official language is Tigrinya, similar to that spoken in Eritrea just to the North. The estimated population as of 2019 is 5,443,000. The majority of the population (c. 80%) are farmers, contributing 46% to the regional gross domestic product (2009). The highlands have the highest population density, especially in eastern and central Tigray. The much less densely populated lowlands comprise 48% of Tigray's area. Like many parts of Africa, Tigray is far from a religious monolith. Despite the historical identification of Ethiopia with Orthodox Christianity, the presence of Islam in Ethiopia is as old as the religion itself. The most recent Ethiopian census, collected in 2007, estimates that Muslims make up 34% of the rapidly growing national population. Although the percentage of Muslims in Tigray is only 5 to 10%, it has historically been Islam’s doorway to the region and to Africa at large. 96% of Tigrayans are Orthodox Christian.  Tigray is bordered by Eritrea to the north, Sudan to the west, the Amhara Region to the south and the Afar Region to the east and southeast. Towns in Tigray include: Mekelle, Adigrat, Axum, Shire, Humera, Adwa, Addi Remets, Alamata, Wukro, Maychew, Sheraro, Abiy Addi, Korem, Qwiha, Atsbi, Hawzen, Mekoni, Dansha, Adi Gudom, Sheraro, Indabaguna, Mai Tsebri, and Zalambessa.  The government of Tigray consists of the executive branch, led by the president, Debretsion Gebremichael; the legislative branch, which comprises the state council; and the judicial branch, which is led by the state supreme court. In early November 2020, a conflict between the Tigray Region, involving the Tigray People's Liberation Front (TPLF) and the Ethiopian federal government began, in which Eritrea took part on the side of the federal government, rapidly escalating into the Tigray War and destabilizing the region.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP] La Tigra, Chaco  La Tigra is a village and municipality located in the O'Higgins Department in Chaco Province in northern Argentina.
In what country is Tigra? [SEP] Tigra Dam  Tigra Dam (also spelled "Tig Dam") creates a freshwater reservoir on the Sank River, about 23 km from Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh, India It plays a crucial role in supplying water to the city and is an important tourism spot of Gwalior.  The dam is 24 metres high at its crest, and 1341 m long. The reservoir has a capacity of 4.8 million cubic metres and the spillway structure can pass up to 1274 cubic metres per second.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]  Jauldes is a commune in the Charente department in southwestern France.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]  The inhabitants of Javené are known as Javenéens in French.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]  Algeria, Argentina, Aruba, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belarus, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Bosnia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada (excluding Quebec), Cayman Islands, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Estonia, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ghana, Georgia, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Nicaragua, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]  Jaare or Jarre  (Jaare, جاري), is a town located in the western Fafan Zone in the Somali region of Ethiopia in the Awbare district.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]  Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Belarus, Belgium, Bermuda, Bolivia, Bosnia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada (excluding Quebec), Cayman Islands, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Egypt, El Salvador, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Latvia, Lebanon, Libya, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Montenegro, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Nicaragua, North Macedonia, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Sri Lanka, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turks and Caicos Islands, Uganda, Ukraine, Uruguay United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, United States, Venezuela, Vietnam, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP] Jauldes  Jauldes () is a commune in the Charente department in southwestern France.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP] Anais, Charente  Anais () is a commune in the Charente department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of southwestern France.
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP] Agris  Agris (; ) is a commune in the Charente department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of southwestern France.  The inhabitants of the commune are known as "Agritois" or "Agritoises", alternatively "Agritauds" or "Agritaudes"
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]
In what country is Jauldes? [SEP]
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]  Nowa Wieś Reszelska (Rosenschön) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bisztynek, within Bartoszyce County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. The village is located in the north of the Warmia and Mazury voivodeship, 9 km from Bisztynek. In 2010, it had a population of 40. In 1975-1998, when a different administrative division was in place, it was located in Olsztyn Voivodeship. Each August 26, Nowa Wieś Reszelska becomes a destination for pilgrims who come from nearby villages to participate in a mass and church fair that take place at the Shrine of the Blessed Virgin Mary of Częstochowa.
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]  After the mass, a fair takes place near the shrine, during which a beach volleyball tournament is held, local specialities are available and women from Nowa Wieś Reszelska offer home-made food. The harvest festival bread is divided among the pilgrims.
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]  In August 2015 the person leading the procession held a flower-adorned cross. Three young boys, who symbolized the Holy Trinity, walked behind it and they were followed by a priest and then the rest of the faithful - about 50 people. During the procession religious songs were sung and mid-way flowers were laid at a small, roadside shrine. The pilgrimage travelled to the Shrine of Virgin Mary of Częstochowa in Nowa Wieś Reszelska. In 2015 over 50 people, mostly elderly, participated in the event.
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]  The tradition of pilgrimages to the Shrine of Virgin Mary of Częstochowa began with the Reverend Józef Leonowicz, who first consecrated the shrine and then organized a church fair and pilgrimage. Although no more than 7 families lived in Nowa Wieś Reszelska, the news about the pilgrimage spread across the whole area. With each coming year, more and more people from neighbouring villages participated in the mass and the fair. At one time over 100 people participated in the event. Pilgrimages to nearby sites (in the Warmia dialect called łosiera) usually take place near large religious centres like the marine sanctuary in Święta Lipka. Pilgrimages to such a small shrine like the one in Nowa Wieś Reszelska are very rare. The annual pilgrimage from Sątopy to Nowa Wieś Reszelska has been taking place for at least 20 years. Initially the pilgrimage, mass and fair were held on 26 August, on the Day of Blessed Virgin Mary of Częstochowa. However, since the mass started to be accompanied by a fair and a beach volleyball match, the event has been moved to the last or third Saturday of August.
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]  St. Peter and Paul's Shrine in Łędławki, the historic filial shrine in Księżno). Unlike a typical roadside shrine, the ones from the Warmia region are small, one-room buildings. Local people used them in place of churches. They were also built on private land as an expression of gratitude for recovering from an illness, or avoiding a natural disaster like flood or fire. After the Second World War the villagers from Nowa Wieś Reszelska would organize May Devotions in the shrine. They were held without a priest and Marian litanies and songs were sung by the faithful. Usually the service was led by a woman from the village. The June services were also held there, as well as the October rosary meetings. After
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP] Gmina Bisztynek  Gmina Bisztynek is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Bartoszyce County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. Its seat is the town of Bisztynek, which lies approximately south of Bartoszyce and north-east of the regional capital Olsztyn.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 6,749, of which the population of Bisztynek is 2,493, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 4,256.
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]
In what country is Nowa Wieś Reszelska? [SEP]
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]  It is located 12 km from the city of San Fernando del Valle de Catamarca, on the margin of the Ongolí River and at the foot of the southwestern slope of the Sierra de Ambato.
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]  It has 1,951 inhabitants (INDEC, 2010), which represents an increase of 30% compared to 1,497 inhabitants in 2001.
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]  Colonia Nueva Coneta is a village and municipality in Catamarca Province in northwestern Argentina.
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]  Nueva Helvecia is a city in Colonia Department of Uruguay. Nueva Helvecia (Spanish for "New Helvetia"; formerly known as Colonia Suiza) is 120 km west of Montevideo, the capital and largest city of Uruguay. It is a few kilometres from the coast where the Atlantic Ocean meets the Río de la Plata and east of Buenos Aires, Argentina. It is known nationwide for its Swiss heritage.
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]  San José la Colonia is located in Alta Verapaz, Guatemala, on the northern outskirts of the city of Cobán (15.47844°N, -90.37448°W). Formerly a nationalized finca, San José la Colonia was designated a national park in 1976. The park covers an area of 54 ha, and is managed by the National Forestry Institute (INAB).
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP] Colonia Nueva Coneta  Colonia Nueva Coneta is a village and municipality in Catamarca Province in northwestern Argentina.
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP]
In what country is Colonia Nueva Coneta? [SEP] List of music venues  This is a list of notable venues worldwide including theaters, clubs, arenas, convention centers, and stadiums, all which can host a concert (music related).
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP]  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād) is a village in Qurigol Rural District, in the Central District of Bostanabad County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 37, in 6 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP]  Aminabad (امين آباد) is a subdivision of Hyderabad District in Sindh, Pakistan. It is a mainly Ismaili community, it is located at 28°56'20N 70°48'15E.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP]  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Āmīnābād) is a village in Bibi Sakineh Rural District, in the Central District of Malard County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 210, in 48 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP]  Aminabada is a village in Rajavommangi Mandal, East Godavari district in the state of Andhra Pradesh in India.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP]  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād) is a village in Tus Rural District, in the Central District of Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 704, in 170 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP] Aminabad, Shahreza  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād) is a village in Esfarjan Rural District, in the Central District of Shahreza County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,197, in 305 families.  Aminabad lies south of Shahreza, near the border of Fars Province along the main highway No. 7 connecting Isfahan to Shiraz.  With a population of around 1500 and increasing number of Ghashghai tribal people leaving nomadic life and settling there permanently, Amin Abad is a growing area and will soon be officially given the status of a city. Grape, wheat, stone fruits and sheep farming are among main industries in Amin Abad.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP] Aminabad, Firuzkuh  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād) is a village in Hablerud Rural District, in the Central District of Firuzkuh County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 318, in 96 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP] Aminabad, Shemiranat  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād; also known as Ebnvā) is a village in Rudbar-e Qasran Rural District, Rudbar-e Qasran District, Shemiranat County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 390, in 103 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP] Aminabad, Charuymaq  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Amīnābād) is a village in Varqeh Rural District, in the Central District of Charuymaq County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 80, in 18 families.
In what country is Aminabad? [SEP] Aminabad, Malard  Aminabad (, also Romanized as Āmīnābād) is a village in Bibi Sakineh Rural District, in the Central District of Malard County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 210, in 48 families.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]   Tholuvankadu  is a village in the Aranthangirevenue block of Pudukkottai district, Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]  Valluvangad or Velluvangad a village located in the Malappuram district, in the state of Kerala, India. It is situated in Pandikkad Panchayath. Valluvangad is unique in Kerala for its diverse mix of religions, and is the birthplace of Ali Musliyar and Variyan Kunnan Kunhumuhammed Haji, the leaders of the 1921 Moplah Rebellion, and was the scene of fighting in that rebellion, including the destruction of a nearby bridge.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]  Sree Krishna Swami Temple is a Hindu temple situated at the heart of Thodupuzha town in Idukki district in the Indian state of Kerala. It is located on the banks of Thodupuzhayar, a tributary of river Muvattupuzha. Lord Krishna presides there in the form of Navaneetha Krishna who holds butter in his right pam. The tantric rights of the temple is held by the Aramallur Kavanattu Mana. The Poojas are conducted by two mutts named as 'Padinjare mutt' and 'Thuruthel mutt'.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]  Thoothoor is a coastal village located in the southern district of Tamil Nadu, called Kanyakumari bordering the state of Kerala in India.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]  The Thodupuzha Block Panchayat is a local governing body in Kerala, India, operating under the Idukki District Panchayath. It was established in 1995 in accordance with the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act of 1994. Its members are elected by representatives from 13 electoral division. The State Election Commission is responsible for conducting the elections.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP] Tholuvankadu  Aranthangirevenue block of Pudukkottai district,<ref>http://tnmaps.tn.nic.in/pr_villages.php?  dc=22&tlkname=Arantangi&region=8&lvl=block&size=1200</ref> Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP]
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP] Sree Krishna Swami Temple, Thodupuzha Sree Krishna Swami Temple is a Hindu temple situated at the heart of Thodupuzha town in Idukki district in the Indian state of Kerala. It is located on the banks of Thodupuzhayar, a tributary of river Muvattupuzha. Lord Krishna presides there in the form of "Navaneetha Krishna" who holds butter in his right pam. The tantric rights of the temple is held by the Aramallur Kavanattu Mana. The Poojas are conducted by two mutts named as 'Padinjare mutt' and 'Thuruthel mutt'. The origin of the temple is associated with many myths which date backs to
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP] and a number of private hospitals are functioning here. No major healthcare institutions are functioning here. People need to travel to Eranakulam, Idukki or Kottayam for advanced healthcare facilities. Government High School: is an old educational institution in this village earlier it known as Sree Lakshmivilasam Sanskrita Patashala. * South Indian Bank Malankara Dam: This is a gravity dam constructed across Thodupuzha river for irrigation purpose. The tail water from Moolamattom Power house is stored here and nearby one good park in under construction. Boating in Malankara Dam is an unforgettable experience. Ilaveezha Poonchira: is situated in Kudayathoor Mountain or
In what country is Tholuvankadu? [SEP] Aruvankadu Aruvankadu is a small town located in The Nilgiris District, Tamil Nadu, India. It is located between Coonoor and Ooty on the NH 67, 6 km from Coonoor town and 12 km from Ooty. It is connected by frequent bus services from various towns and cities. Aruvankadu is also connected via the Nigiri Mountain Railway (NMR). It houses the cordite factory, one of the 40 Indian Ordnance Factories. It is one of the oldest defence factories coming under the Ministry of Defence and the Indian Ordnance Factories. The cordite factory was established in 1903 by the then British Government
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP]  Anaikudam is a village in the Udayarpalayam taluk of Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP]  As per the 2001 census, Anaikudam had a total population of 4182 with 2139 males and 2043 females.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP]  Anaikutiyur is a small village in Avudaiyanoor in Pavoorchatram. It is located in Tenkasi taluk of Tirunelveli district. PMGSY (Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojna) is making new roads in the village.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP]  Anaikulam (ஆணைகுளம்) village is located in Radhapuram Taluka of Tirunelveli district of South Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is situated 20km away from Radhapuram and 60km away from district headquarter Tirunelveli. It is located less than 10 km away from Valliyur. Anaikulam is also a Gram Panchayat. Nearby villages of Anaikulam are Vaithiyalingapuram, Thangayam, Kizhavaneri, Thulukkarpatti, Cithoor Mylaputhur, Madapuram, Kallikulam, Kannanallur, Kovankulam, Dalapathi samudram, Pudhur.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] thanjai veera chozha thappattam kalai kuzhu ; manvaasam parai isai payirchi maiyam, dharmapuri ; samar kalaikuzhu, alanganallur ,mathurai ; Ulaga marabu kalaikoodam -chennai, Tamil nadu,india ; Infinite performing art academy- chennai,india ; AathiTamilar Kalai Kuzhu, Ponneri ParramParra - Soul Of Sound, Tamil Nadu ; Tamizhi Kalaikalam- தமிழி கலைக்களம், Tamil Nadu ; Nayyappudai kalaikuzhu, chennai ; Maiyam Kalaikuzhu, Chennai ; Sakthi kalaikuzhu, Dindigul ; Nigar Kalaikoodam, Coimbatore ; Minnesota Parai Kuzhu, Minnesota (USA) ; Detroit Unaruyir kalaikoodam, Detroit ; Nimirvu Kalaiyagam, Coimbatore ; Chicago Tamil Sangam - PonParai Group [Chicago, Illinois], United States ; American Parai Team St. Louis, United States ; Manudam Parai Ani Connecticut, United States ; West Michigan Parai Isai Maiam Grand Rapids.. மேற்கு மிச்சிகன் பறையிசை  மய்யம் ; New York Parai Isai Group (NYC). நியூயார்க் பறையிசை குழு(நியூயார்க் நகரம்). ; Ongu Parai Kuzhu, Charlotte, NC. ஓங்கு பறை குழு, சார்லட், வட கரோலினா ; Giramiya puthalvan kalainan kulu ;Coimbatore ; Iswara Group; Mauritius ; Cumming Tamil Palliyin -Maanavar visai  Parai ,Cumming ,Georgia; Buddhar kalaikuzhu, Vedanthangal
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] Anaikudam  Anaikudam is a village in the Udayarpalayam taluk of Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] Jayankondam  Jayankondam is a Second Grade Municipality in Ariyalur district of Tamil Nadu in India. As of 2011, the town had a population of 33,945.  Huge amounts of lignite deposits have been found here and power projects have been initiated by the Neyveli Lignite Corporation. This town has more than 25 temples of various historical periods in the vicinity. The existing Government Higher Secondary School at Jayankondam is as the old as the town and has nearly 2000 Students to its name.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] Ariyalur district  Ariyalur district is an administrative district, one of the 38 districts in the state of Tamil Nadu in India. The district headquarters is located at Ariyalur. The district encompasses an area of 1,949.31 km².  Gangaikonda Cholapuram, built by King Rajendra Cholan of Chola Empire, is a UNESCO World Heritage site situated in this district. The district is also known for its rich prehistoric fossils. Many fossils of gigantic molluscs and jawed fishes, at least one fossilized dinosaur egg, and several fragmentary fossils of sauropod and theropod dinosaurs have been discovered here. An on-site museum is being set up at Keelapazhur to preserve and conserve fossils. Ariyalur is noted for its cement industries and Jayankondam has huge reserves of lignite.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] Ariyalur  Ariyalur () is a town and district headquarters of Ariyalur district in the South Indian state of Tamil Nadu and is rich in limestone, surrounded with seven cement factories and two sugar factories. The town is located at a distance of from the state capital Chennai.  Ariyalur was a part of the erstwhile Trichirapally District until India's independence in 1947 and Tiruchirappalli district until 1995, Perambalur district until 2007 and subsequently a part of the newly formed Ariyalur district. The town is a part of the fertile Cauvery Delta and the major profession in the town is agriculture.  Ariyalur is administered by a municipality established in 1994. As of 2011, the municipality covered an area of and had a population of 28,902. Ariyalur comes under the Ariyalur assembly constituency which elects a member to the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly once every five years and it is a part of the Chidambaram constituency which elects its Member of Parliament (MP) once in five years. Roadways are the major mode of transportation to the town and it also has rail connectivity which acts as a main station after Tiruchirappalli junction. The nearest seaport is Karaikal port, located away, while the nearest airport is the Tiruchirappalli International Airport, located away from the town.
In what country is Anaikudam? [SEP] Avinangudi  Avinangudi is a village panchayat located in the Cuddalore district of Tamil-Nadu state, India. The latitude of Avinangudi is 11.3851707 and its longitude is 79.1606569. Chennai is the state capital for Avinangudi village. It is located around 226.3 kilometer away from Avinangudi. The nearest state capital from Avinangudi is Pondicherry and its distance is 95.5 km. The other surrounding state capitals are Pondicherry 95.5 km., Bangalore 247.6 km., Thiruvananthapuram 392.3 km.  The surrounding nearby villages and its distance from Avinangudi are Pothiramangalam 1.0 km, Kodangudi 2.5 km, Vaiyangudi 3.3 km, Sirumulai 5.0 km, Perumulai 5.0 km, Keelacheruvai 7.3 km, Sevveri 7.7 km, Nidhinatham 9.0 km, E.keeranur 9.5 km, Meladhanur 10.2 km, Akkanur 11.6 km, Pullur 11.8 km, Korakkai 12.6 km, Vagaiyur 13.8 km, T.eandal 14.0 km, Avatti 14.2 km, Kallur 15.3 km, S.naraiyur 15.6 km, Arangur 15.8 km, Thondankurichi 16.2 km, Ma.podaiyur 16.4 km, Sirukarambalur 16.6 km, Tholudur 17.1 km, Ezhuthur 17.2 km, Ramanatham 17.2 km, Vinayaganandal 18.2 km, Lakkur 18.3 km, Kandamathan 18.3 km, Ma.pudur 20.5 km, Mangalur 20.8 km, Ma.kothanur 22.0 km, Pulikarambalur 22.8 km, Adari 23.1 km, Keelakalpoondi 23.1 km, Rettakurichi 24.0 km, Orangur 24.6 km, Vadakarampoondi 26.1 km, S.pudur 27.4 km, Vallimaduram 27.5 km, Korakkavadi 27.6 km, and Panaiyandur 29.0 km.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP]  The Society of Early Americanists (SEA) was founded in 1990 as an interdisciplinary association of scholars who study the literature and culture of America prior to about the year 1830. The non-profit society promotes the exchange of ideas and information among its members through a newsletter, which serves as the primary forum for members' concerns, through an electronic bulletin board and a website, and through conferences and joint research projects. The SEA is an affiliate of both the American Literature Association and the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP]  The Society for Historians of the Early American Republic (SHEAR) is an organization that was established in 1977 to study the history of the United States in the period between 1775 and 1861. The Society holds annual conferences, awards prizes and fellowships, and publishes the Journal of the Early Republic.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP]  The American Antiquarian Society (AAS), located in Worcester, Massachusetts, is both a learned society and national research library of pre-twentieth century American history and culture. Founded in 1812, it is the oldest historical society in the United States with a national focus. Its main building, known as Antiquarian Hall, is a U.S. National Historic Landmark in recognition of this legacy. The mission of the AAS is to collect, preserve and make available for study all printed records of what is now known as the United States of America. This includes materials from the first European settlement through the year 1876. The AAS offers programs for professional scholars, pre-collegiate, undergraduate and graduate students, educators, professional artists, writers, genealogists, and the general public. AAS has many digital collections available, including "A New Nation Votes: American Election Returns 1788–1824." The
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP]  The Society of Americanists in Belgium (Société des Américanistes de Belgique; SAB) is an anthropological society in Brussels, Belgium. It was founded by Henri Lavachery. A partner of University of Louvain (UCLouvain), SAB publishes the journal Bulletin de la Société des Américanistes de Belgique. Its second Congress was held in 2002.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP]  Early American Literature is a peer-reviewed academic journal published three times a year by the University of North Carolina Press, focusing on the study of American literature before 1830, including Native American and French, British, Dutch, German, and Spanish colonial writing. It was established in 1965 and is currently edited by Marion Rust. It is the official publication of the Society of Early Americanists.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP] Society of Early Americanists  The Society of Early Americanists (SEA) was founded in 1990 as an interdisciplinary association of scholars who study the literature and culture of America prior to about the year 1830. The non-profit society promotes the exchange of ideas and information among its members through a newsletter, which serves as the primary forum for members' concerns, through an electronic bulletin board and a website, and through conferences and joint research projects.  The SEA is an affiliate of both the American Literature Association and the American Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP] American Colonization Society  The American Colonization Society (ACS), initially the Society for the Colonization of Free People of Color of America until 1837, was an American organization founded in 1816 by Robert Finley to encourage and support the migration of freeborn blacks and emancipated slaves to the continent of Africa.  The American Colonization Society was established to address the prevailing view that free people of color could not integrate into U.S. society; their population had grown steadily following the American Revolutionary War, from 60,000 in 1790 to 300,000 by 1830.  The African American community and the abolitionist movement overwhelmingly opposed the project. In most cases, African Americans' families had lived in the United States for generations, and their prevailing sentiment was that they were no more African than white Americans were European. Contrary to claims that their emigration was voluntary, many African Americans, both free and enslaved, were pressured into emigrating. sometimes manumitted (freed) their slaves on condition that the freedmen leave the country immediately.  According to historian Marc Leepson, "Colonization proved to be a giant failure, doing nothing to stem the forces that brought the nation to Civil War." Between 1821 and 1847, only a few thousand African Americans, out of millions, emigrated to what would become Liberia. By 1833, the Society had transported 2,769 individuals out of the U.S., while the increase in Black population in the U.S. during those same years was about 500,000. According to Zephaniah Kingsley, the cost of transporting the Black population of the United States to Africa would exceed the annual revenues of the country. Moreover, the provisioning and transportation of requisite tools and supplies proved very expensive.  Starting in the 1830s, the society was met with great hostility from white abolitionists, led by Gerrit Smith, who had supported the society financially, and William Lloyd Garrison, author of "Thoughts on African Colonization" (1832), in which he proclaimed the society a fraud. According to Garrison and his many followers, the society was not a solution to the problem of American slavery—it actually was helping, and was intended to help, to preserve it.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP] Society of the United States  The society of the United States is based on Western culture, and has been developing since long before the United States became a country with its own unique social and cultural characteristics such as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore. Today, the United States of America is an ethnically and racially diverse country as a result of large-scale immigration from many different countries throughout its history.  Its chief early influences came from English and Irish settlers of colonial America. British culture, due to colonial ties with Britain that spread the English language, legal system and other cultural inheritances, had a formative influence. Other important influences came from other parts of Europe.  The United States has often been thought of as a melting pot, but recent developments tend towards cultural diversity, pluralism and the image of a salad bowl rather than a melting pot. Due to the extent of American culture there are many integrated but unique social subcultures within the United States. The cultural affiliations an individual in the United States may have commonly depend on social class, political orientation and a multitude of demographic characteristics such as religious background, occupation and ethnic group membership. The strongest influences on American culture came from northern European cultures, most prominently from Britain, Ireland, and Germany.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP] Culture of the United States  The culture of the United States of America is primarily of Western, and European origin, yet its influences includes the cultures of Asian American, African American, Latin American, and Native American peoples and their cultures. The United States has its own distinct social and cultural characteristics, such as dialect, music, arts, social habits, cuisine, and folklore. The United States is ethnically diverse as a result of large-scale European immigration throughout its history, its hundreds of indigenous tribes and cultures, and through African-American slavery followed by emancipation. America is an anglophone country with a legal system derived from English common law.
In what country is Society of Early Americanists? [SEP] American Chemical Society  The American Chemical Society (ACS) is a scientific society based in the United States that supports scientific inquiry in the field of chemistry. Founded in 1876 at New York University, the ACS currently has more than 155,000 members at all degree levels and in all fields of chemistry, chemical engineering, and related fields. It is one of the world's largest scientific societies by membership. The ACS is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization and holds a congressional charter under Title 36 of the United States Code. Its headquarters are located in Washington, D.C., and it has a large concentration of staff in Columbus, Ohio.  The ACS is a leading source of scientific information through its peer-reviewed scientific journals, national conferences, and the Chemical Abstracts Service. Its publications division produces over 60 scholarly journals including the prestigious "Journal of the American Chemical Society", as well as the weekly trade magazine "Chemical & Engineering News". The ACS holds national meetings twice a year covering the complete field of chemistry and also holds smaller conferences concentrating on specific chemical fields or geographic regions. The primary source of income of the ACS is the Chemical Abstracts Service, a provider of chemical databases worldwide.  The ACS has student chapters in virtually every major university in the United States and outside the United States as well. These student chapters mainly focus on volunteering opportunities, career development, and the discussion of student and faculty research.  The organization also publishes textbooks, administers several national chemistry awards, provides grants for scientific research, and supports various educational and outreach activities.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP]  The Denmark Hill Insect Bed is a Triassic fossil locality in the Denmark Hill Conservation Park of Ipswich, Queensland, Australia.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP]  It belongs to the Blackstone Formation (Ipswich Coal Measures Group) dated to the Carnian age (228.0 - 216.5 million years ago). Its coordinates are -27.6°N, 152.8°W. Its paleogeographic coordinates are -59°N, 105.8°W. The fossiliferous layer is located in between the Bluff coal seam and the Aberdare coal seam. It is 15 cm thick and is composed greenish grey to brownish grey arenaceous shale. The existence of coal seams above and below the layer indicates that it may have once been a lake (lacustrine environment). The site is noted as a source of well-preserved insect fossils.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP]  United Kingdom, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Hungary.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP]  Born in Christchurch, Hill attended St Margaret's School and then earned her BSc from Canterbury University College in 1931, and MSc in 1932. Her Masters thesis was on the morphology and life history of Archichauliodes diversus, commonly called the New Zealand dobsonfly. Appointed to the Entomology Section of the Plant Research Bureau of DSIR, Hill worked in Palmerston North until 1937, when she moved to the Cawthron Institute in Nelson. Whilst there, Hill presented her work on the insects affecting cocksfoot crops, including the cocksfoot stem-borer, the midge, and others to the Royal Society of New Zealand in Wellington. In the 1950s, Hill inherited family property on Memorial Avenue in Christchurch. After a visit to Sissinghurst Castle in England with her husband Frank, Hill decided to establish a herb nursery.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP]  Agonum sexpunctatum is a wet-loving, peatland species of ground beetle native to the Palearctic and the Near East. In Europe, it is found in Albania, Belarus, Benelux, the Baltic states, Finland, France, Italy, Liechtenstein, Portugal, Russia, Scandinavia, Spain, Ukraine, the former Yugoslavian states and Central Europe. It is absent in Ireland.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP] Denmark Hill Insect Bed  The Denmark Hill Insect Bed is a Triassic fossil locality in the Denmark Hill Conservation Park of Ipswich, Queensland, Australia.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP] Mesochorista proavita  Mesochorista proavita is an extinct species of scorpionfly from the Triassic period of Queensland, Australia.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP] Blackstone Formation, Australia  The Blackstone Formation is a geologic formation of the Ipswich Coal Measures Group in southeastern Queensland, Australia, dating to the Carnian to Norian stages of the Late Triassic. The shales, siltstones, coal and tuffs were deposited in a lacustrine environment. The Blackstone Formation contains the Denmark Hill Insect Bed.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP] Santa Juana Formation  Santa Juana Formation a Late Triassic (Carnian stage) sedimentary rock formation near Santa Juana in the lower course of the Biobío River in south-central Chile. Lithologies range from conglomerate sandstone, arkosic sandstone, siltstone and mudstone.
In what country is Denmark Hill Insect Bed? [SEP] List of fossil sites  This list of fossil sites is a worldwide list of localities known well for the presence of fossils. Some entries in this list are notable for a single, unique find, while others are notable for the large number of fossils found there. Many of the entries in this list are considered Lagerstätten (sedimentary deposits that exhibits extraordinary fossils with exceptional preservation—sometimes including preserved soft tissues). Lagerstätten are indicated by a note (<ref group=Note name=Lagerstaette/>) in the noteworthiness column.  Fossils may be found either associated with a geological formation or at a single geographic site. Geological formations consist of rock that was deposited during a specific period of time. They usually extend for large areas, and sometimes there are different important sites in which the same formation is exposed. Such sites may have separate entries if they are considered to be more notable than the formation as a whole. In contrast, extensive formations associated with large areas may be equivalently represented at many locations. Such formations may be listed either without a site, with a site or sites that represent the type locality, or with multiple sites of note. When a type locality is listed as the site for a formation with many good outcrops, the site is flagged with a note (<ref group=Note name=typelocality/>). When a particular site of note is listed for an extensive fossil-bearing formation, but that site is somehow atypical, it is also flagged with a note (<ref group=Note name=atypical/>).  Many formations are for all practical purposes only studied at a single site, and may not even be named. For example, sites associated with hominin, particularly caves, are frequently not identified with a named geologic formation. Therefore, some sites are listed without an associated formation.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP]  Many media found in this village.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP]  Mavjinjava (માવજીંજવા) is a small village near Bagasara in the Amreli district of the Saurashtra region in the state of Gujarat, India. There is a population of around 3,754 people in Mavjinjava. More than 3000 people live outside of Manjinjava in places like Surat, Ahmedabad & Mumbai.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP]  It is believed that during the year 534 AD Mavjinjava existed and was known as Mavji and then Mavjinjava. The village is named in ancient Gujrati as Mavjinjava (માવજીંજવા). Initially Mavjinjava was the part of the former Gaekwad of Baroda during the Gaekwad regime in 1886. After Indian independence in 1947, the village became the part of Bombay State and then a separate village in Gujarat State after the division of Bombay State in 1956 into Gujarat and Maharashtra.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP]  The people in Mavjinjava are predominantly vegetarians and are vehemently against any form of hunting.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP]  India census, Mavjinjava had a population of 3,754.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP] Mavjinjava  Mavjinjava (માવજીંજવા) is a small village near Bagasara in the Amreli district of the Saurashtra region in the state of Gujarat, India. There is a population of around 3,754 people in Mavjinjava. More than 3000 people live outside of Manjinjava in places like Surat, Ahmedabad & Mumbai.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP] Kathiawari horse  The Kathiawari or Kathiawadi is an Indian breed of horse. It originates in the Kathiawar peninsula of Gujarat in western India, and is associated with the Kathi people of that area. It was originally bred as a desert war horse for use over long distances, in rough terrain, on minimal rations. It is closely related to the Marwari horses of Rajasthan; both breeds have been influenced by imported Arab horses. It is found in all colours except for black, and is most commonly chestnut. In the past it was used as a war horse and cavalry mount. Today it is used for riding, in harness and for sports; it may be used as a police horse and for the sport of tent-pegging. A stud-book is kept by the Kathiawari Horse Breeders' Association, which also organises annual shows.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP] Amreli  Amreli is a city and a municipality in Amreli district in Indian state of Gujarat.
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP] Jalia (Amreli)  Jalia is a small village in the Amreli District of Gujarat, India. It is located from Amreli.  Nearby attractions are Bhurakhiya Hanuman Mandir and Khodiyar Mandir. In Jalia there are two Banks First one is State Bank of India and Second one is Amreli District Central Co-operative Bank. Primary health centre, School and Highschool is there since long. The nearest access points are Amreli Airport and Amreli Railway Station.  Most of the villagers are belongs from Patel community [Nakrani].
In what country is Mavjinjava? [SEP] Bagasara  Bagasara is a municipality in Bagasara Taluka of Amreli district, Gujarat, India. The town is situated on the northern bank of the Satalli river. nearest airport div airport (54 km).
In what country is Arthur? [SEP]  Arthur was born in Aldershot, Hampshire, England and educated at Dover College. He received a Master of Arts from the University of St Andrews (1885) and a MB ChB from the University of Edinburgh (1888). He worked in the slums of Edinburgh, but contracted typhoid fever. He met and married his wife, Jessie Sinclair Bruce, daughter of David Bruce, in Australia in 1890. He returned to Europe and studied hypnotism in Paris, which earned him an MD from the University of Edinburgh in 1891. After again becoming ill working in the slums of London, he returned to Australia and established a practice in the Sydney suburb of Mosman, specialising in eye, ear-nose-and-throat, and dental work. He was a director of the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital from 1917 to 1920 and from 1927 to 1931 and of Sydney Hospital from 1924 to 1932.
In what country is Arthur? [SEP]  Source:
In what country is Arthur? [SEP]  Arthur's Town is a town in the Bahamas. It is located on Cat Island. The population is 143 as of the 2010 census. Bahamian-American actor Sidney Poitier was raised around Arthur's Town.
In what country is Arthur? [SEP]  Arthur was born in Hamburg, Germany, and is of Ghanaian descent.
In what country is Arthur? [SEP] Notes
In what country is Arthur? [SEP] Arthur (TV series)  Arthur is an animated educational television series for children ages 4 to 8, developed by Kathy Waugh for PBS, and produced by WGBH. The show is set in the fictional U.S. city of Elwood City, and revolves around the lives of Arthur Read, an anthropomorphic aardvark, his friends and family, and their daily interactions with each other.  The television series is based on the "Arthur" book series written and illustrated by Marc Brown. WGBH Boston along with Montreal-based Cinar (now WildBrain) began production of the animated series in 1994, and aired its first episode on October 7, 1996. During its 25-season run, the show has broadcast 253 half hour episodes.  A pilot for the spin-off series "Postcards from Buster" aired in December 2003 as a season 8 episode of "Arthur". "Postcards from Buster" aired from October 11, 2004, to November 21, 2008; the series faced several years of hiatus, until a brief revival in February 2012, only to be cancelled after airing three unseen episodes that had been held over from the show's third season.  In June 2018, it was announced that "Arthur" was renewed for four additional seasons, through its 25th season. It was subsequently announced on July 27, 2021, that the 25th season would be the final season. "Arthur" concluded its original run on PBS Kids on February 21, 2022. Despite concluding after 25 years, the show will continue to have new content on PBS Kids and on the video app.  The series often deals with important issues families face such as asthma, dyslexia, cancer, diabetes, and autism spectrum disorder. It also encourages reading and relationships with family and friends by explaining that people have different personalities and interests. It was the longest-running children's animated series in the U.S., and the second longest-running animated series in the U.S., behind Fox's "The Simpsons".
In what country is Arthur? [SEP] King Arthur  King Arthur (, , ) is a legendary king of Britain, and a central figure in the medieval literary tradition known as the Matter of Britain.  In the earliest traditions, Arthur appears as a leader of the post-Roman Britons in battles against Saxon invaders of Britain in the late 5th and early 6th centuries. He appears in two early medieval historical sources, the "Annales Cambriae" and the "Historia Brittonum", but these date to 300 years after he is supposed to have lived, and most historians who study the period do not consider him a historical figure. His name also occurs in early Welsh poetic sources such as "Y Gododdin". The character developed through Welsh mythology, appearing either as a great warrior defending Britain from human and supernatural enemies or as a magical figure of folklore, sometimes associated with the Welsh otherworld Annwn.  The legendary Arthur developed as a figure of international interest largely through the popularity of Geoffrey of Monmouth's fanciful and imaginative 12th-century "Historia Regum Britanniae" ("History of the Kings of Britain"). Geoffrey depicted Arthur as a king of Britain who defeated the Saxons and established a vast empire. Many elements and incidents that are now an integral part of the Arthurian story appear in Geoffrey's "Historia", including Arthur's father Uther Pendragon, the magician Merlin, Arthur's wife Guinevere, the sword Excalibur, Arthur's conception at Tintagel, his final battle against Mordred at Camlann, and final rest in Avalon. The 12th-century French writer Chrétien de Troyes, who added Lancelot and the Holy Grail to the story, began the genre of Arthurian romance that became a significant strand of medieval literature. In these French stories, the narrative focus often shifts from King Arthur himself to other characters, such as various Knights of the Round Table. The themes, events and characters of the Arthurian legend vary widely from text to text, and there is no one canonical version. Arthurian literature thrived during the Middle Ages but waned in the centuries that followed, until it experienced a major resurgence in the 19th century. In the 21st century, the legend continues to have prominence, not only in literature but also in adaptations for theatre, film, television, comics and other media.
In what country is Arthur? [SEP]
In what country is Arthur? [SEP] Arthur M. Sackler Gallery  The Arthur M. Sackler Gallery is an art museum of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, D.C., focusing on Asian art. The Sackler Gallery and the Freer Gallery of Art together form the National Museum of Asian Art in the United States. The Freer and Sackler galleries house the largest Asian art research library in the country.  Founded in 1982, the Gallery is named after Arthur M. Sackler, who donated approximately 1,000 objects and $4 million to the building of the museum. Located on the south side of the National Mall, and being physically connected to the Freer Gallery of Art, 96% of the museum is located underground below the Enid A. Haupt Garden.  Their donations and contributions have been protested by people who accuse them of being a key contributor to the opioid epidemic in the United States.
In what country is Arthur? [SEP] Port Arthur, Texas  Port Arthur is a city in Jefferson County within the Beaumont–Port Arthur metropolitan area of the U.S. state of Texas. A small, uninhabited portion extends into Orange County; it is east of Houston. The largest oil refinery in the United States, the Motiva Refinery, is located in Port Arthur.  The population of Port Arthur was 53,818 at the 2010 census, down from 57,755 at the 2000 census. By 2020, its population rebounded to 56,039. Early attempts at settlements in the area had all failed. However, in 1895, Arthur Stilwell founded Port Arthur, and the town quickly grew. Port Arthur was incorporated as a city in 1898 and soon developed into a seaport. It eventually became the center of a large oil refinery network. The Rainbow Bridge across the Neches River connects Port Arthur to Bridge City.  Port Arthur is vulnerable to hurricanes and extensive damage to the city has been caused several times.
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]  Paraul (Параул) is a rural locality (a selo) in Karabudakhkentsky District, Republic of Dagestan, Russia. The population was 4,949 as of 2010. There are 66 streets.
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]  Petru Bogatu (12 July 1951 – 22 March 2020) was a journalist, essayist, political analyst and writer from the Republic of Moldova, unionist and pro-occidental orientation, editorialist at the National Newspaper, professor at the State University of Moldova, Faculty of Journalism and Communication Sciences.. Together with six other experts from Romania, the Netherlands and the Republic of Moldova, Bogatu was co-author of the book "Twitter Revolution, First Episode: Republic of Moldova", which is a synthesis of the April 2009 anti-communist protests in data, images and investigations. He wrote the fiction novel The rope braided in three, a parable of police intrigue about the geopolitical confrontations from the beginning of the third millennium, seen from an ethical, teleological and historical perspective.
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]  In October 2015 Petru Bogatu, as an op-ed columnist for Ziarul Național, wrote hard criticism of Vladimir Plahotniuc's address, stating that he [Plahotniuc] "has usurped the central country's administration", and "has subordindate to him prosecutora and judges, subjugating this way country's constitutional institutions. As a result, he transformed the state into a private firm, and the justice – into a gestapo for the intimidation and burial of his political opponents". Next year Bogatu began his work at Prime TV, a channel owned by Plahotniuc.
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]  Rareș Bogdan (born 17 September 1974 in Ocna Mureș, Alba County, Romania) is a Romanian politician who has been a PNL member of the European Parliament for Romania since 2019. He was the leader of the National Liberal Party's electoral list for the 2019 elections. He is sitting with the European People's Party group (EPP for short).
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]  Kumyks live there.
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP] Suseni (river)  The Suseni (in its upper course also: "Surlău") is a right tributary of the river Șușița in Romania. It discharges into the Șușița in Ursați. Its length is and its basin size is .
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP]
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP] Izvorul  Izvorul may refer to the following places:
In what country is Pârâul Bogat? [SEP] Catrinel Dumitrescu  Catrinel Dumitrescu (born 11 October 1956) is a Romanian film and theater actress.  Born in Brăila, her debut came when she was 16, and was selected by director Alexandru Tocilescu to play a role at the local theater in the play "" by August Strindberg. She graduated in 1979 from the Caragiale National University of Theatre and Film, where she studied with Octavian Cotescu and .  Dumitrescu is a professor at , Faculty of Arts, Acting department. She has appeared in more than fifty films since 1977. She was married to actor Emil Hossu.<ref name="evz"/>  In December 2002 she was awarded by Romanian President Ion Iliescu the National Order of Merit, Knight rank. In 2012 she received the Gopo Award for best supporting actress for her role in the movie Aurora.<ref name="bio"/>
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]  Tebo Regency is a regency of Jambi Province, Indonesia. It is located on the island of Sumatra. The regency has an area of 6,461 km² and had a population of 297,735 at the 2010 Census and 337,669 at the 2020 Census. The regency seat is at the town of Muara Tebo.
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]  🇷🇺 russia
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]  Since Teka set up in Spain in 1964, the group has expanded from Europe to the five continents. At the end of 2013, Peru became the 33rd country to have its own Teka offices. Years earlier, it began making inroads in China where it now has a presence in several cities such as Kaiping, Weihai, and Shanghai. The Teka Group is growing rapidly in Asia through its subsidiaries in Thailand, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, China and Vietnam; in the Middle East, from its base in the Arab Emirates; Turkey and South America. It has launched a development plan in Africa, which includes both Maghreb and the south of the continent. In 2016 the Teka brand was relaunched in Australia & New Zealand through a partnership with local distributor Residentia Group. The group's sales in Europe account for 80% of its turnover, followed by America and the Asia-Pacific region.
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]  Oy Teboil Ab is an oil company in Finland, engaged in the marketing, sales and distribution of petroleum products and operation of filling and service stations. It is a subsidiary of the Russian company Lukoil.
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]  Tembe Elephant Park is situated in Maputaland, in the north-eastern region of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa adjoining the Mozambique border. It is home to the province's biggest African elephant herd and its only indigenous elephants. Tembe's 300 km2 comprises a variety of unique sand forest, woodland, grassland and swampland habitats.
In what country is Têbo? [SEP]
In what country is Têbo? [SEP] to be presented soon to the Council of Ministers. The port complex is expected to cover an area of 30,000 hectares, and will have an additional area of 11,000 hectares for industrial development, as well as capacity to process 200 million tons of cargo. The Techobanine region is 70km from Maputo and 20km north of Ponta do Ouro. Tembe Elephant Park is situated in Maputaland, in the north-eastern region of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa adjoining the Mozambique border. It is home to the province's biggest African elephant herd and its only indigenous elephants. Tembe's comprises a variety of unique sand forest,
In what country is Têbo? [SEP] Timbó Timbó is a municipality in the state of Santa Catarina in the South region of Brazil. It is located at 26º49'24" from latitude South and 49º16'18" from longitude west, at an altitude of 68 meters. Its population in 2011 was 37.343 inhabitants. It has an area of 130.31 km ². German immigrants, led by Frederico Donner, settled at the confluence of the rivers Benedito and of Cedros, that came from the Colony of Blumenau. Italian immigrants also arrived later, and today each of these two ethnic groups account for almost 50%. Most immigrants who arrived in Timbó came from
In what country is Têbo? [SEP] remains of the town were bulldozed in 1971, though some buildings and the cemetery remain. Gebo, Wyoming Gebo is a ghost town located in Hot Springs County in the U.S. state of Wyoming. It is located about north of Thermopolis. The town was established as a coal town in 1907 alongside the nearby camps of Crosby and Kirby. It was named after Samuel Wilford Gebo who established the Owl Creek Coal Company and the first mine in the area after immigrating to America from Canada. Mining remained active until 1938. At its height, over 20,000 people lived in the area,
In what country is Têbo? [SEP] be visited any time of day and night. Located between the streets and Quintino Bocaiuva and Botuverá. Timbó Timbó is a municipality in the state of Santa Catarina in the South region of Brazil. It is located at 26º49'24" from latitude South and 49º16'18" from longitude west, at an altitude of 68 meters. Its population in 2011 was 37.343 inhabitants. It has an area of 130.31 km ². German immigrants, led by Frederico Donner, settled at the confluence of the rivers Benedito and of Cedros, that came from the Colony of Blumenau. Italian immigrants also arrived later, and today each
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]   Sholoktu is a village in Baghlan Province in north eastern Afghanistan.
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP] Anapa, Krasnodar Krai ; Balabanovo, Kaluga Oblast ; Derbent, Dagestan ; Yegoryevsk, Moscow Oblast ; Yekaterinburg, Sverdlovsk oblast ; Zheleznovodsk, Stavropol Krai ; Elista, Kalmykia ; Likino-Dulevo, Moscow Oblast ; Pokrov, Vladimir Oblast ; Stavropol, Stavropol Krai ; Sergiyev Posad, Moscow Oblast ; Sterlitamak, Bashkortostan ; Stupino, Moscow Oblast ; Tomsk, Tomsk Oblast ; Ufa, Bashkortostan ; Cheboksary, Chuvash Republic ; Shadrinsk, Kurgan Oblast ; Yakutsk, Yakutia University have a branches in following localities:
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]  Temtsiltu Shobtsood (Шовчууд Тэмцэлт, born August 1956) or Temtselt Shobshuud, also known as his Chinese name Xi Haiming, is an ethnic Mongol activist who campaign for independence of "Southern Mongolia" (aka Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region of China). Now he is the chairman of Inner Mongolian People's Party. Temtsiltu was born in Naiman Banner, a banner in Tongliao, Inner Mongolia. In early 1981, while at university he joined the Inner Mongolian student movement together with Hada, Huchuntegus and Wang Manlai, which was campaigning to preserve Mongolian identity in Inner Mongolia under Chinese law. Due to his activities, the Chinese authorities put him under surveillance. He graduated
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]  Sholokhovo (Шолохово) is a rural locality (a village) in Novlenskoye Rural Settlement, Vologodsky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 133 as of 2002. There are 4 streets.
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]  Shool is a 1999 Indian Hindi-language action crime film directed by Eeshwar Nivas. Written and produced by Ram Gopal Varma, it portrays the politician-criminal nexus and the criminalization of politics in Bihar and its effect on the life of an honest police officer. It stars Manoj Bajpayee as Inspector Samar Pratap Singh and Sayaji Shinde as the borderline psychopath criminal-politician Bachhu Yadav, a character loosely based on politician turned criminal, Mohammad Shahabuddin. The soundtrack consisting of "Main Aayi Hoon U.P. Bihar Lootne" featuring Shilpa Shetty became a chartbuster." The rights to this film are owned by Shah Rukh Khan's Red Chillies Entertainment. Parts of the film were shot in Motihari, Bihar. The climax of the film was entirely shot at the state Legislative Assembly in Hyderabad. The film won the National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi, and was screened at the International Film Festival of India, and the Toronto International Film Festival. "India Today" cited the film as the "Best Cop Movie" of the decade.
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP] Sholoktu
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP] List of populated places in Afghanistan  This is an alphabetical list of populated places in Afghanistan, including hamlets, villages, towns, and other small or rural communities. For urban areas and cities, and other densely populated places, see list of cities in Afghanistan. Provinces and districts are listed at their respective articles.
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP]
In what country is Sholoktu? [SEP] Abagaitu Islet Abagaitu Islet (; , Bolshoy Ostrov) is an islet in the Argun River (Asia) divided between the People's Republic of China (Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region) and Russia (Chita Oblast). Area . The island was occupied by the Soviet Union in 1929, a move not accepted by China, resulting in a border dispute that lasted more than seventy years. On October 14, 2004, the Complementary Agreement between the People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation on the Eastern Section of the China–Russia Boundary was signed, in which Russia agreed to relinquish control over a part of Abagaitu Islet.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]  Goldasht is a village in Dalgan Rural District, in the Central District of Dalgan County, Sistan and Baluchestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 240, in 51 families.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]   Sistan and Baluchestan is the poorest of Iran's 31 provinces, with a HDI score of 0.688. The government of Iran has been implementing new plans such as creating the Chabahar Free Trade-Industrial Zone.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]  Industry is new to the province. Efforts have been done and tax, customs and financial motivations have caused more industrial investment, new projects, new producing jobs and improvement of industry. The most important factories are: – Khash cement factory with production of 2600 tons cement daily and three other cement. Factories under construction: – Cotton cloth and fishing net weaving factories and the brick factory can be named as well. The province has important geological and metal mineral potentials such as chrome, copper, granite, antimony, talc, manganese, iron, lead, zinc, tin, nickel, platinum, gold and silver. One of the main mines in this province is Chel Kooreh copper mine in 120 km north of Zahedan.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]  Sistan and Balochistan Province is the second largest province of the 31 provinces of Iran, after Kerman Province. It is in the southeast of the country, bordering Pakistan and Afghanistan, and its capital is Zahedan. The province is the second largest province in Iran with an area of 180,726 km2 and a population of 2.5 million. The counties of the province are Chabahar County, Qasr-e Qand County, Dalgan County, Golshan County, Hirmand County, Iranshahr County, Khash County, Konarak County, Nik Shahr County, Saravan County, Sarbaz County, Sib and Suran County, Taftan County, Zabol County, Mehrestan County, Zahedan County, Zehak County, Hamun County, Nimruz County, Bampur County, Mirjaveh County and Fanuj County. The population comprises the Baloch who form a majority in the province, with Persian Sistani minority. Smaller communities of Kurds (in the eastern highlands and near Iranshahr), the expatriate Brahui (on the border between Iran and Pakistan), and other resident and itinerant ethnic groups, such as the Romani, are also found within the province.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]  the western (Gard) wind. The province borders South Khorasan Province in the north, Kerman Province and Hormozgan Province in the west, the Gulf of Oman in the south, and Afghanistan and Pakistan in east. Firuzabad Castle Almost in whole of Sistān and Balūchestān, the people are mostly Balōch and speak the Baluchi language, although there also exists among them a small community of speakers of the Indo-Aryan language Jadgali. The name Balūchestān means "Land of the Balōch" and is used to represent the majority Baloch peoples inhabiting the province, Sistan was added to the name to represent the minority Persian peoples who speak the Sistani dialect of Persian. Many scholars, orators, and literary personalities have sprung up from this part of Iran, amongst which are Farrukhi Sistani, Ya'qub bin Laith as-Saffar and Rostam. Ayatollah Sistani is also from Sistān; though he currently resides in Najaf, Iraq.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP] Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan  Goldasht () is a village in Dalgan Rural District, in the Central District of Dalgan County, Sistan and Baluchestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 240, in 51 families.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP] Aliabad-e Goldasht  Aliabad-e Goldasht (, also Romanized as ‘Alīābād-e Goldasht; also known as ‘Alīābād) is a village in Dalgan Rural District, in the Central District of Dalgan County, Sistan and Baluchestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 120, in 21 families.
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP] Goldasht (disambiguation)  Goldasht is a city in Isfahan Province, Iran.  Goldasht () may also refer to:
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]
In what country is Goldasht, Sistan and Baluchestan? [SEP]
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]  Eslamabad (, also Romanized as Eslāmābād) is a village in Mashayekh Rural District, Naghan District, Kiar County, Chaharmahal and Bakhtiari Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 118, in 25 families. The village is populated by Lurs.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]  Eslamabad (, also Romanized as Eslāmābād) is a village in Ramjerd-e Yek Rural District, in the Central District of Marvdasht County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 795, in 182 families.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]  Mashnaq (, also Romanized as Meshnaq; also known as Eslāmābād-e Mashnaq, Meshnak, and Moshnegh) is a village in Guney-ye Markazi Rural District, in the Central District of Shabestar County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 533, in 195 families.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]  Eslamiyeh (, also Romanized as Eslāmīyeh) is a village in Tus Rural District, in the Central District of Mashhad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,582, in 416 families.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]  Eslamabad-e Olya (, also Romanized as Eslāmābād-e ‘Olyā) is a village in Qaedrahmat Rural District, Zagheh District, Khorramabad County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 21, in 6 families.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP] Eslamabad-e Mashayekh  Eslamabad-e Mashayekh (, also Romanized as Eslāmābād-e Mashāyekh) is a village in Sarfaryab Rural District, Sarfaryab District, Charam County, Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 437, in 94 families.
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP]
In what country is Eslamabad-e Mashayekh? [SEP] Eslamabad  Eslamabad () may refer to the following places in Iran:
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] 🇺🇸 Clearwater, United States (1992) ; 🇨🇳 Xianyang, China (2000) ; 🇷🇺 Tula, Russia (2002) ; 🇷🇺 Oryol, Russia (2003) ; 🇷🇺 Smolensk, Russia (2003) ; 🇷🇺 Makhachkala, Russia (2012) ; 🇷🇺 Tsiolkovsky, Russia (2016) ; 🇷🇺 Ryazan, Russia (2017) ; 🇷🇺 Tambov, Russia (2017) ; 🇨🇿 Pardubice, Czech Republic (2019) In addition to twin towns, Kaluga cooperates with:
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Suhl, Germany (1969) ; 🇫🇮 Lahti, Finland (1998) ; 🇲🇩 Tiraspol, Moldova (2005) ; 🇬🇷 Panorama, Greece (2011) ; 🇧🇾 Minsk, Belarus (2015) ; 🇨🇳 Binzhou, China (2015) ; 🇺🇦 Yalta, Ukraine (2016) ; 🇷🇸 Niš, Serbia (2017) Kaluga is twinned with:
In what country is Kalu? [SEP]  Kalu is of Nigerian descent. He is currently working at sports radio station KBME in Houston, hosting a Houston sports show called ""In The Trenches". He also serves as an occasional analyst for CSN Houston, American Sports Network, and ESPN3.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP]  Ndukwe Dike "N. D." Kalu (born August 3, 1975) is a former American football defensive end. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the fifth round of the 1997 NFL Draft. He played college football at Rice.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP]  The Hambanthota area in southern Sri Lanka is famous for kalu dodol, and is sometimes referred to as the kalu dodol capital. The kalu dodol industry is a major source of income for many people in the area. The kalu dodol shops in Hambanthota are frequently visited by pilgrims coming to visit the nearby holy town of Kataragama. In 2011, the Sri Lankan government allocated Rs. 134 million for setting up kalu dodol sales centres in the Hambanthota area, in an effort to develop the industry.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] Orji Uzor Kalu  Orji Uzor Kalu (born 21 April 1960) is a Nigerian politician and businessperson who is a Senator representing Abia North Senatorial District, He also serves as the Chief Whip of the House of Senate, Federal Republic of Nigeria. He served as the Governor of Abia State, Nigeria from 29 May 1999 to 29 May 2007. Kalu is the chairman of SLOK Holding and the "Daily Sun" and "New Telegraph" newspapers in Nigeria.   Prior to his election, he served as the chairman of the Borno Water Board and the chairman of the Cooperative and Commerce Bank Limited. Kalu was also a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA) and the chairman of the PPA Board of Trustees. He was the party's presidential candidate in the April 2007 general election. He is currently a member of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) after he officially announced his resignation as the PPA BOT chair.  Orji Uzor Kalu contested in the 2019 Nigerian general election to represent the people of Abia North in the senate, running under the banner of All Progressives Congress. He defeated the incumbent senator Mao Ohuabunwa with over 10,000 votes.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] Sinach  Osinachi Kalu Okoro Egbu, known professionally as Sinach, (born 30 March 1972) is a Nigerian singer, songwriter and senior worship leader at Loveworld until 2021. She is the first singer-songwriter to top the Billboard Christian Songwriter chart for 12 weeks in a row. Her song "Way Maker" received three nominations and won the Song of the Year at the 51st GMA Dove Awards, making her the first Nigerian to win the Award. She also won the BMI song of the year, and in 2021 was recognized by the US Congress while on tour in the United States of America.   She has released 9 studio albums with several other hit songs, including "I Know Who I Am", "Great Are You Lord", "Rejoice", "He Did It Again", "Precious Jesus", "The Name of Jesus", "This Is My Season", "Awesome God", "For This", "I Stand Amazed", "Simply Devoted" and "Jesus is Alive".  "Way Maker" has also piled up many recognition and awards since it was released in 2015. The visuals for Way Maker is currently the second most watched Nigerian music video on YouTube. In March 2019, it became the third Nigerian video to have garnered 100 million views on YouTube behind Davido's "Fall" and Yemi Alade's Johnny". "Way Maker" has been covered by over 60 Christian artists such as Michael W. Smith, Darlene Zschech, Leeland, Bethel Music, and Mandisa and in many languages. In the first few weeks of the Coronavirus pandemic and lockdown in 2020, Way Maker was the go to song, as several viral videos in hospitals, parks were made with large numbers of people singing the song. After being on the Christian Copyright Licensing International top 100 chart for several months in 2020, it claimed the No. 1 position in June and has remained till December 2020, making it the most played song in Churches across the United States for 2020.  Sinach received a Bethlehem Hall of Faith certificate of commemoration during her visit to Israel in December 2017. In September 2019, Sinach became the first gospel artist from Africa to tour India, headlining concerts with several thousands in attendance. In May 2020, she became the first African artist to top the "Billboard" Christian Songwriters chart. In July 2022, she joined the Grammy Recording Academy as a voting member.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] Kalu, Gorgan  Kalu (, also Romanized as Kalū) is a village in Roshanabad Rural District, in the Central District of Gorgan County, Golestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was at 394.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] Kalu dodol  Kalu dodol (, Tamil: தொடோல்) is a sweet dish, a type of dodol that is popular in Sri Lanka. The dark and sticky dish consists mainly of kithul jaggery (from the sap of the toddy palm), rice flour and coconut milk. Kalu dodol is a very difficult and time-consuming dish to prepare. The Hambanthota area is famous for the production of this dish.
In what country is Kalu? [SEP] Joshua Kalu  Joshua Elekwachi Kalu (born August 28, 1995) is an American football strong safety for the Tennessee Titans of the National Football League (NFL). He was signed by the Tennessee Titans as an undrafted free agent in 2018. He played college football at Nebraska.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP]  Pierce is a Statutory Town in Weld County, Colorado, United States. The population was 834 at the 2010 census. The town is a rural agricultural community located on the Colorado Eastern Plains along U.S. Highway 85 north of Greeley.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP]  Jacob Pierce is eligible to represent Japan since he spent his first 10 years living in Yamaguchi, Shizuoka and Kanagawa.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP]  Pierce Boston is a residential apartment and condo building located in the Fenway–Kenmore neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts (USA), at the corner of Boylston Street and Brookline Avenue. The 30-story mixed-use development includes luxury condo, apartment, and retail components. It is the tallest building in the neighborhood.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP]  The Pierce Block is a historic building in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma on the northeast corner of Third Street and Detroit Avenue, that was constructed as a hotel in 1909. According to the Tulsa Preservation Commission, it is the oldest remaining post-statehood hotel in Tulsa. Originally it was a few blocks west of the Midland Valley Railroad passenger station, which was at Third and Greenwood Avenue.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP]  .
In what country is Pierce? [SEP] Webb Pierce  Michael Webb Pierce (August 8, 1921 – February 24, 1991) was an American honky-tonk vocalist, songwriter and guitarist of the 1950s, one of the most popular of the genre, charting more number one hits than any other country artist during the decade.  His biggest hit was "In the Jailhouse Now", which charted for 37 weeks in 1955, 21 of them at number one. Pierce also charted number one for several weeks each with his recordings of "Slowly" (1954), "Love, Love, Love" (1955), "I Don't Care" (1955), "There Stands the Glass" (1953), "More and More" (1954), "I Ain't Never" (1959), and his first number one "Wondering", which stayed at the top spot for four of its 27 weeks' charting in 1952.  He recorded country gospel song "I Love Him Dearly" also. His iconic hit "Teenage Boogie" was covered by British band T. Rex as "I Love to Boogie" in 1974, but credited as being written by the group's lead singer Marc Bolan and not Pierce. The music of Webb was also made popular during the British rockabilly scene in the 1980s and 1990s.  For many, Pierce, with his flamboyant Nudie suits and twin silver dollar-lined convertibles, became the most recognizable face of country music of the era and its excesses. Pierce was a one-time member of the Grand Ole Opry and was posthumously inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame. A tribute album in his honor (produced by singer-songwriter Gail Davies) was released in 2001 entitled "Caught in the Webb – A Tribute To Country Legend Webb Pierce".
In what country is Pierce? [SEP] Pierce County, Washington  Pierce County is a county in the U.S. state of Washington. As of the 2020 census, the population was 921,130, up from 795,225 in 2010, making it the second-most populous county in Washington, behind King County, and the 60th-most populous in the United States. The county seat and largest city is Tacoma. Formed out of Thurston County on December 22, 1852, by the legislature of Oregon Territory, it was named for U.S. President Franklin Pierce. Pierce County is in the Seattle metropolitan area (formally the Seattle-Tacoma-Bellevue, WA, metropolitan statistical area).  Pierce County is home to Mount Rainier, the tallest mountain and a volcano in the Cascade Range. Its most recent recorded eruption was between 1820 and 1854. There is no imminent risk of eruption, but geologists expect that the volcano will erupt again. If this should happen, parts of Pierce County and the Puyallup Valley would be at risk from lahars, lava, or pyroclastic flows. The Mount Rainier Volcano Lahar Warning System was established in 1998 to assist in the evacuation of the Puyallup River valley in case of eruption.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP] More and More (Webb Pierce song)  "More and More" is a song written by country singer/songwriter Merle Kilgore. Webb Pierce's 1954 recording of "More and More" spent ten weeks at number one on the country charts and twenty-nine weeks on the chart overall. The song also crossed over and peaked at number 22 on the pop charts, making it the most successful pop single of Pierce's career. The B-side of "More and More", "You're Not Mine Anymore," peaked at number eight on the C&W Best Seller charts. The song was featured in the horror movie "The Hills Have Eyes" during the opening credits.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP] No Escape (2015 film)  No Escape is a 2015 American action thriller film directed by John Erick Dowdle, who co-wrote the screenplay with his brother, Drew Dowdle. The film stars Owen Wilson, Lake Bell, and Pierce Brosnan, and tells the story of an expat engineer trapped with his family in an unidentified country in Southeast Asia during a violent uprising.  The film was released on August 26, 2015, by The Weinstein Company. It had special sneak previews in the Philippines on August 16 and 17, 2015, as well as multiple pre-screenings throughout the United States before its official release.
In what country is Pierce? [SEP] Fort Pierce, Florida  Fort Pierce is a city in and the county seat of St. Lucie County, Florida, United States. The city is part of the Treasure Coast region of Atlantic Coast Florida. It is also known as the Sunrise City, sister to San Francisco, California, the Sunset City. Per the 2020 census, the population was 47,297.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP]  Chalhuacocha (possibly from Quechua challwa fish, qucha lake, "fish lake") is a lake in Peru located in the Ancash Region, Huari Province, Huari District. It is situated at a height of 4223 m comprising an area of 0.153655 km2. Chalhuacocha lies near the Rurichinchay valley, northeast of the peak of Rurichinchay.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP]  Chalhuacocha (possibly from Quechua challwa fish, qucha lake, "fish lake") is a mountain in the Andes of Peru, about 5200 m high. It is located in the Lima Region, Cajatambo Province, Cajatambo District, and in the Oyón Province, Oyón District. Chalhuacocha lies northwest of Condor Huayin and east of Tocto lake.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP]  Chalhuacocha (possibly from Quechua challwa fish, qucha lake, "fish lake") is a lake in Peru located in the Junín Region, Jauja Province, Canchayllo District. It lies northeast of the lakes Llacsacocha and Mancacocha, east of the mountain Chalhuacocha and north of the mountain Huiracocha.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP]  Challwaqucha (Quechua challwa fish, qucha lake, "fish lake", hispanicized spelling Chalhuacocha) is a lake in Peru located in the Lima Region, Yauyos Province, on the border of the districts of Colonia and Tupe. It lies southeast of the mountain and the lake named Wankarqucha. The Challwamayu ("fish river", Chaullamayo) originates south of the lake. Its waters flow to the Cañete River.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP]  Challhuahuacho (Quechua: Challwa Wachu, meaning 'fish ridge') is one of the six districts of the province Cotabambas in Peru. The town has 4,000 inhabitants with another 10,000 in the surrounding area of Challhuahuacho.
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP] Challwaqucha (Yauyos)  Challwaqucha (Quechua "challwa" fish, "qucha" lake,<ref name=laime/> "fish lake", hispanicized spelling "Chalhuacocha") is a lake in Peru located in the Lima Region, Yauyos Province, on the border of the districts of Colonia and Tupe. It lies southeast of the mountain and the lake named Wankarqucha. The Challwamayu ("fish river", "Chaullamayo") originates south of the lake. Its waters flow to the Cañete River.<ref name=escale/>
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP] Challhua Challhua (possibly from Quechua for "fish"), Wiksu or Huicsu (both names possibly from Quechua for "twisted, bent") is a mountain in the southern Cordillera Blanca in the Andes of Peru, about high (IGN Peru map cites an elevation of ). Challhua is located in the Ancash Region, Bolognesi Province, Aquia District and in the Recuay Province, Catac District. It is situated northeast of Caullaraju, west of Pastu Ruri and Tuco and south of Santun. One of the nearest places is the village of Wicso, located next to Callan creek, west of the mountain. This creek flows to the Pumapampa
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP] now is Bruno Salinas Alvarez, who was elected for the period 2015 - 2018. Some include: During the summer, the district receives tourists from different parts of the country to enjoy its good beaches and its good seafood. Close to the capital city it is located Puerto Inca, that has the only ruins of the Inca times in the coast. It is said that the Inca enjoyed here the sun of the summer. Now, it is visited for many local and foreign tourists. The capital town of Chala has basic hotels, restaurants and bus station. The district is connected to
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP] by the Carlos Fermín Fitzcarrald Province and to the southeast by the Huari Province. The town Chacas is located on a plateau consisting mostly of undulating dacite, rising from its lowest point in the town of Chucpin to 3000 m to 3560 m above sea level in Cochas. The terrain around this plateau, as in the province, is very rugged and mountainous. The terrain elevations are higher up on the west bank of the district to share the White Mountains with Carhuaz. The highest peaks are the Perlilla (5,586 m), located to the south east, Wakuy with 4,702 meters to
In what country is Chalhuacocha? [SEP] Niño, resulted in the glacier's disappearance in 2009. The glacier was formerly one of the highest in South America, located about from La Paz, near Huayna Potosí mountain. The glacier on Chacaltaya served as Bolivia's only ski resort. It was the world's highest lift-served ski area and the northernmost in South America as well as the world's second most equatorial after Maoke, Indonesia. The rope tow, the very first in South America, was built in 1939 using an automobile engine; it was housed in the site's original clapboard lodge, and is now inoperable. The road to the base of the
In what country is Footes? [SEP]  Footes is a small hamlet in the town of Concord in southern Erie County, New York, United States.
In what country is Footes? [SEP]  Canada, United States.
In what country is Footes? [SEP]  Selina Foote (born 1985) is a visual artist from New Zealand. Pieces by Foote are included in the collections of the Chartwell Trust and Museum of New Zealand Te Papa Tongarewa.
In what country is Footes? [SEP]  Footes Lane is a multi-use sports stadium in Saint Peter Port, Guernsey and is the main sports venue on the island. It has a capacity of 5,000 with 720 seated. The stadium is the national stadium of the Bailiwick of Guernsey.
In what country is Footes? [SEP]  Foote Field is a multi-purpose sports facility on the University of Alberta campus in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, built as a legacy facility for the 2001 World Championships in Athletics. It was named for University of Alberta alumnus, former varsity track athlete, and philanthropist Eldon Foote, who donated $2 million toward the construction costs.
In what country is Footes? [SEP] Tender Mercies  Tender Mercies is a 1983 American drama film directed by Bruce Beresford. The screenplay by Horton Foote focuses on Mac Sledge, a recovering alcoholic country music singer who seeks to turn his life around through his relationship with a young widow and her son in rural Texas. Robert Duvall plays the role of Mac; the supporting cast includes Tess Harper, Betty Buckley, Wilford Brimley, Ellen Barkin and Allan Hubbard.  Financed by EMI Films, "Tender Mercies" was shot largely in Waxahachie, Texas. The script was rejected by several American directors before the Australian Beresford accepted it. Duvall, who sang his own songs in the film, drove more than throughout the state, tape recording local accents and playing in country music bands to prepare for the role. He and Beresford repeatedly clashed during production, at one point prompting the director to walk off the set and reportedly consider quitting the film.  The film encompasses several themes, including the importance of love and family, the possibility of spiritual resurrection amid death and the concept of redemption through Mac Sledge's conversion to Christianity. Following poor test screening results, distributor Universal Pictures made little effort to publicise "Tender Mercies", which Duvall attributed to the studio's lack of understanding of country music.  The film was released on March 4, 1983, in a limited number of theatres. Although unsuccessful at the box office, it was critically acclaimed and earned five Academy Award nominations, including one for Best Picture. "Tender Mercies" won Oscars for Best Original Screenplay for Foote and Duvall won the Academy Award for Best Actor.
In what country is Footes? [SEP] Daniel Lewis Foote  Daniel Lewis Foote is an American diplomat and career member of the Senior Foreign Service who was the United States Special Envoy for Haiti from July to September 2021. He formerly served as the United States Ambassador to Zambia.
In what country is Footes? [SEP]
In what country is Footes? [SEP] Eunice Newton Foote  Eunice Newton Foote (July 17, 1819 – September 30, 1888) was an American scientist, inventor, and women's rights campaigner. She was the first scientist to conclude that certain gases warmed when exposed to sunlight, and that rising carbon dioxide () levels would change atmospheric temperature and could impact climate. Born in Connecticut, Foote was raised in New York at the center of social and political movements of her day, such as the abolition of slavery, anti-alcohol activism, and women's rights. She attended the Troy Female Seminary and the Rensselaer School from age seventeen to nineteen, gaining a broad education in scientific theory and practice.  After marrying an attorney in 1841, Foote settled in Seneca Falls, New York. She was a signatory to the Declaration of Sentiments and one of the editors of the proceedings of the 1848 Seneca Falls Convention, the first gathering to treat women's rights as its sole focus. In 1856 she published a paper notable for demonstrating the absorption of heat by and water vapor and hypothesizing that changing amounts of in the atmosphere would alter the climate. It was the first known publication in a scientific journal by a woman in the field of physics. She published a second paper in 1857, on static electricity in atmospheric gases. Although she was not a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, both her papers were read at the organization's annual conferences. These were the only papers in the field of physics to be written by an American woman prior to 1889. She went on to patent several inventions.  Foote died in 1888 and for almost a hundred years her contributions were unknown, before being rediscovered by women academics in the twentieth century. In the twenty-first century, new interest in Foote arose when it was realized that her work predated discoveries made by John Tyndall, who had been recognized by scientists as the first person to experimentally show the mechanism of the greenhouse effect involving infrared radiation. Detailed examination of her work by modern scientists has confirmed that three years before Tyndall published his paper in 1859, Foote discovered that water vapor and absorb heat from sunlight. Furthermore, her view that variances in the atmospheric levels of water vapor and would result in climate change, preceded Tyndall's 1861 publication by five years. Because of the limits of her experimental design, and possibly a lack of knowledge of infrared radiation, Foote did not examine or detect the absorption and emission of radiant energy within the thermal infrared range, which is the cause of the greenhouse effect. In 2022, the American Geophysical Union instituted The Eunice Newton Foote Medal for Earth-Life Science in her honor to recognize outstanding scientific research.
In what country is Footes? [SEP] Robert Bruce Foote  Robert Bruce Foote (22 September 1834 – 29 December 1912) was a British geologist and archaeologist who conducted geological surveys of prehistoric locations in India for the Geological Survey of India. For his contributions to Indian archaeology, he is called "the father of Indian prehistory"  Foote joined the Geological Survey of India (GSI) on 29 December 1858 was posted in the Madras Presidency, Hyderabad region and Bombay. In 1887 he became a Director of the GSI and on retiring in 1891, he joined the state of Baroda.  In later life, he settled in Yercaud where his father-in-law Reverend Peter Percival had worked and lived.  An interest in paleolithic life was inspired by the work of Joseph Prestwich in 1859. In 1863, the year after his archaeological survey began, he discovered the first conclusive Paleolithic stone tool (a hand axe) in India. He found the tool in southern India (Pallavaram, near Madras). After the discovery he, along with William King, went on to discover more such tools and settlements in Southern and Western India. In 1884, he discovered the long Belum Caves, the second largest cave in the Indian subcontinent.  Foote spent 33 years (starting at age 24) working for the geological survey.  As a geologist, one of his significant contribution to Indian Geology was the "Geological Features of the South Mahratta Country and Adjacent Districts" (i.e. Border districts of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh States in India).  He died on 29 December 1912 and was cremated at Calcutta, his ashes were deposited at Holy Trinity Church, Yercaud, Tamil Nadu, India. There is a memorial to him there. Foote was a Fellow of the Geological Society, London from 1867 and a Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Institute.  Foote built a valuable collection as a result of 40 years of geological and pre-historic expeditions in various parts of western and southern India.  Foote's collection of antiquities were all sold to the Madras Government Museum in 1906, where it is quoted to be a valuable treasure.  His grandson was Major General Henry Bowreman Foote, who was the recipient of the Victoria Cross for his contributions in the defence of the realm during the Second World War (World War 2).
In what country is Oscar? [SEP]  The Oscar Wilde Award is the award for cinematic contribution by Irish-Americans in the entertainment industries within the US. This award has beed awarded by the US-Ireland Alliance since 2006 before the Oscar season. The event is usually held at the beginning of the year and has a variety of celebrities in attendance. The nominees are usually Irish talents who have had an impact on the entertainment industries in the areas of music and performance. In the early years it was held at the Ebell on Wilshire Boulevard. Some Irish celebrities have become regular supporters and share their stories and experiences with others. One of the activists of this non-profit organisation, director J. J. Abrams has provided the opportunity to holding this event at Bad Robot in Santa Monica since 2012.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP]  Oscar and Friends is a New Zealand children's stop motion animated television series that aired from 1995 to 1996. The series was produced in Wellington, and was aimed at children aged 3 to 6. The series was produced by Gnome Productions Ltd., distributed by Southern Star Sales, and funded by NZ On Air and Southern Star Entertainment. Oscar and Friends has been screened all around the world including the UK (ITV) (where the series rated number ten for kids in its first year of release), The United States (Fox Family), Australia (ABC), Taiwan (YoYo TV), Germany (Kabel 1 in Bim Bam Bino) and Argentina (Magic Kids)
In what country is Oscar? [SEP]  Poland has submitted films for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film on a regular basis since 1963. The Oscar is handed out annually by the United States Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States that contains primarily non-English dialogue. It was not created until the 1956 Academy Awards, in which a competitive Academy Award of Merit, known as the Best Foreign Language Film Award, was created for non-English speaking films, and has been given annually since.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP]  significant milestone: its first million euros in sales revenue. The following year, Oscaro Recambios launched in Spain. In October 2011, Pierre-Noël Luiggi, founder of Oscaro, was appointed member of the French delegation represented at G20 YES (Young Entrepreneur Summit). In 2012, Oscaro.com was reported to have 1.46 million unique monthly users according to Médiamétrie, making it the first in its category of French specialised websites. In October 2015, Oscaro became a shareholder of Temot International, an international buying group specialised in automotive customer service. In April 2016, Oscaro expanded its services to Belgium, serving primarily its Francophone community. After opening a research centre in California in 2012, Oscaro launched its website on the US market under the name Oscaroparts.com.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP] Thirteen other countries (Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, Egypt, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lebanon, Nepal, Palestinian Territories, Singapore, and Ukraine) that submitted films within the three previous years opted not to send a movie for Oscar consideration in 2009.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP] Academy Awards  The Academy Awards, better known as the Oscars, are awards for artistic and technical merit for the American and international film industry. The awards are regarded by many as the most prestigious, significant awards in the entertainment industry worldwide. Given annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), the awards are an international recognition of excellence in cinematic achievements, as assessed by the Academy's voting membership. The various category winners are awarded a copy of a golden statuette as a trophy, officially called the "Academy Award of Merit", although more commonly referred to by its nickname, the "Oscar". The statuette, depicting a knight rendered in the Art Deco style, was originally sculpted by Los Angeles artist George Stanley from a design sketch by art director Cedric Gibbons.  The 1st Academy Awards were held in 1929 at a private dinner hosted by Douglas Fairbanks in The Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel. The Academy Awards ceremony was first broadcast by radio in 1930 and was televised for the first time in 1953. It is the oldest worldwide entertainment awards ceremony and is now televised live worldwide. A total of 3,140 Oscar statuettes have been awarded since its inception in 1929.<ref name="statuette" />
In what country is Oscar? [SEP]
In what country is Oscar? [SEP] Academy Award for Best International Feature Film  The Academy Award for Best International Feature Film (known as Best Foreign Language Film prior to 2020) is one of the Academy Awards handed out annually by the U.S.-based Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). It is given to a feature-length motion picture produced outside the United States with a predominantly non-English dialogue track.  When the first Academy Awards ceremony was held on May 16, 1929, to honor films released in 1927/28, there was no separate category for foreign language films because most of the films released in 1927 and in 1928 were silent films. Between 1947 and 1955, the academy presented Special/Honorary Awards to the best foreign language films released in the United States. These awards, however, were not handed out on a regular basis (no award was given in 1953), and were not competitive since there were no nominees but simply one winning film per year. For the 1956 (29th) Academy Awards, a competitive Academy Award of Merit, known as the Best Foreign Language Film Award, was created for non-English speaking films, and has been given annually since then.  Unlike other Academy Awards, the International Feature Film award is not presented to a specific individual (although it is accepted on-stage by its director), but is considered an award for the submitting country as a whole. Over the years, the Best International Feature Film Award and its predecessors have been given predominantly to European films: out of the seventy-two awards handed out by the academy since 1947 to foreign language films, fifty-seven have gone to European films, seven to Asian films, five to films from the Americas and three to African films. Italian filmmaker Federico Fellini directed four Best Foreign Language Film Academy Award–winning motion pictures during his lifetime, a record that remains unmatched (if Special Awards are taken into account, then Fellini's record is tied by his countryman Vittorio De Sica).  The most awarded foreign country is Italy, with 14 awards won (including three Special Awards) and 29 nominations, while France is the foreign country with the most nominations (37 for 12 wins, including three Special Awards). Israel is the foreign country with the most nominations (10) without winning an award, while Portugal has the most submissions (34) without a nomination. In 2020 (92nd), South Korea's entrant "Parasite" became the first International Feature Film winner, and first non-English film overall, to also win Best Picture.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP] List of accolades received by No Country for Old Men  "No Country for Old Men" is a 2007 American neo-Western thriller film produced, directed, written, and edited by Joel and Ethan Coen. Based on Cormac McCarthy's novel of the same name, the film is about an ordinary man to whom chance delivers a fortune that is not his, and the ensuing cat-and-mouse drama as the paths of three men intertwine in the desert landscape of 1980 West Texas. The film stars Josh Brolin, Tommy Lee Jones, and Javier Bardem, with Woody Harrelson, Kelly Macdonald, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, and Beth Grant in featured roles.  The film premiered at the 60th Cannes Film Festival on May 19, 2007, where it was nominated for the Palme d'Or. After a successful screening at the Toronto International Film Festival, Miramax and Paramount Vantage initially gave the film a limited release in 28 theaters in the United States on November 9. The film was later given a release in 860 theaters in the United States and Canada on November 21. "No Country for Old Men" has grossed a worldwide total of over $172 million on a production budget of $25 million. Rotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, surveyed 265 reviews and judged 93 percent to be positive.  "No Country for Old Men" garnered awards and nominations in a variety of categories, with particular praise for its direction, screenplay, and Bardem's performance. At the 80th Academy Awards, the film received eight nominations, the most nominations at the ceremony tied with "There Will Be Blood". It went on to win four awards including Best Picture, Best Director, (Joel and Ethan Coen), Best Supporting Actor (Bardem), and Best Adapted Screenplay (Ethan and Joel Coen). The Coen brothers became the second pair of individuals to win Best Directing for helming the same film. "No Country for Old Men" earned four nominations at the 65th Golden Globe Awards, winning for Best Screenplay for the Coen brothers and Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actor for Bardem. At the 61st British Academy Film Awards, the film received nine nominations and won for Best Direction, Best Supporting Actor, and Best Cinematography.  At the Producers Guild of America Awards, "No Country for Old Men" won for Best Theatrical Motion Picture. The Coen brothers received the Outstanding Directing – Feature Film Award from the Directors Guild of America. The cast garnered the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture, and the Coens' screenplay won the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Adapted Screenplay. The National Board of Review named it the Best Film. The American Film Institute and included the film in its annual listing of the top ten films of 2007.
In what country is Oscar? [SEP] Lonzo and Oscar  Lonzo and Oscar were an American country music duo founded in 1945 originally consisting of Lloyd "Lonzo" George (1924–1991) and Rollin "Oscar" Sullivan (1919–2012), best known for being the first to perform the 1948 song "I'm My Own Grandpa". George departed in 1950, and Lonzo was later portrayed by Johnny Sullivan (1917–1967) from 1950 to 1967 and by David Hooten from 1967 to 1985, when the band retired (with some final shows performed by Sullivan and first Cleo C. Hogan, then Billy Henson, the latter of which eventually bought the rights to the name). Lonzo and Oscar owned a record label, a recording studio, and a music publishing company. The recording studio and the record label were called "Nugget". The music publishing company was called "Lonzo and Oscar (BMI)". Melba Montgomery's first recordings were released on Nugget Records in the late 1950s through the early 1960s. The songs which Starday Records released by Melba Montgomery in the 1960s came from Nugget Records. Harlan Howard recorded an album with Nugget Records. Danny Harrison, Melba Montgomery, and Darnell Miller wrote for Lonzo and Oscar's publishing company, Lonzo and Oscar (BMI).
In what country is Cora? [SEP]  Committee for Relevant Art (CORA) is a Nigerian not for profit platform of artists, art critics and aficionados, and a publisher. The members describe themselves as cultural landscapists, and focus on social involvement and debate of cultural issues. The organization was founded on June 2, 1991, by Toyin Akinosho, Yomi Layinka, Josey Ogbuanoh, Tunde Lanipekun and Chika Okeke-Agulu, and is involved in the organization of various events and activities which support cultural expression and contemporary art. CORA mainly focuses on Nigeria, but meets with a wide response in the rest of the African continent as well. The organization pays attention to several cultural expressions, like literature, theatre, cabaret, films, television programs and music. CORA is the co-organizer behind several events in Lagos,
In what country is Cora? [SEP]  Coramark Inc. (doing business as Cora) is a Canadian chain of casual restaurants serving breakfast and lunch. Until 2008, the chain was known as Chez Cora déjeuners... in Quebec, and now just Cora elsewhere in Canada. Franchises are located in all provinces. Chez Cora began in 1987 when Cora Tsouflidou opened a snack bar in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It is now a chain of more than 50 franchises in Quebec and 130 across Canada.
In what country is Cora? [SEP]  As of December 2018, Cora has eleven hypermarkets in Romania, four of which are in Bucharest, and the other seven are in Baia Mare, Constanța(2), Cluj-Napoca, Ploiești, Bacau and Drobeta-Turnu Severin.
In what country is Cora? [SEP]  Cora is a retail group of hypermarkets of Belgian origin located in France and elsewhere in Europe. Cora was founded in 1974 by the supermarket holding Louis Delhaize Group after taking over three Carrefour hypermarkets located in Belgium. These three were originally established around 1969 as a joint venture franchise between two other companies: the Carrefour Group and the Delhaize Group. The Louis Delhaize Group owns several supermarket and hypermarket chains internationally, including Cora, Louis Delhaize, Match, Profi, Truffaut, Ecomax, Animalis, Sovena and Houra. The name 'Cora' is borrowed from the Greek goddess Persephone (Roman: Proserpina) who is also known as Cora.
In what country is Cora? [SEP]  Cora Stephan (born 7 April 1951 in Strang near Bad Rothenfelde, West Germany) is a German-speaking writer and essayist. As an author of crime fiction she is known under the pseudonym Anne Chaplet. Stephan grew up in Osnabrück (Germany). Having studied in Hamburg and Frankfurt she graduated as a teacher in 1973 and took her PhD in 1976 with a thesis on the History of German Social-Democracy in the 19th Century. From 1976 to 1984 she taught at the Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University in Frankfurt (Germany). From 1985 to 1987 she worked as a journalist in the Bonn office of the German news magazine Der Spiegel. Today Cora Stephan lives in Mücke near Frankfurt (Germany) and Laurac-en-Vivarais (France). Under the pseudonym Anne Chaplet she was awarded the Deutscher Krimi Preis twice (in 2001 and 2004) and received Radio Bremen Krimipreis in 2003.
In what country is Cora? [SEP] Cora people  The Cora are an indigenous ethnic group of North Western Mexico which live in the municipality El Nayar, Rosamorada, Ruiz, Tepic, Mezquital Durango in the Mexican state of Nayarit and in a few settlements in the neighboring state of Jalisco. They call themselves "náayerite" (plural; "náayeri" singular), whence the name of the present day Mexican state of Nayarit. They reside within a series of "comunidades indígenas" (colonial land grants) and "ejidos" (contemporary agricultural communes). The 2000 Mexican census reported that there were 24,390 people who were members of Cora-speaking households, these being defined as households where at least one parent or elder claims to speak the Cora language. Of these 24 thousand, 67 percent (16,357) were reported to speak Cora, 17 percent were nonspeakers, and the remaining 16 percent were unspecified with regard to their language.  The Cora cultivate maize, beans, and amaranth and they raise some cattle.
In what country is Cora? [SEP] Cora (hypermarket)  Cora is a chain of hypermarkets owned by Louis Delhaize Group in France, Belgium, Luxembourg, the French overseas territory of Mayotte and Romania. Cora was founded in 1974 by the supermarket holding Louis Delhaize Group after taking over three Carrefour hypermarkets located in Belgium. These three were originally established around 1969 as a joint venture franchise between two other companies: the Carrefour Group and the Delhaize Group.  The Louis Delhaize Group also includes the supermarket chain Match, the online supermarket Houra, the Truffaut garden center chain and the Animalis pet shop chain. The name 'Cora' is borrowed from the Greek goddess Persephone (Roman: Proserpina) who is also known as Cora.
In what country is Cora? [SEP] Learn to Talk / Country of Blinds  Learn to Talk / Country of Blinds is a CD compilation album by American experimental rock and jazz band Skeleton Crew. It was released by RecRec Music in 1990 and comprises the band's two studio albums, "Learn to Talk" and "The Country of Blinds", with two tracks omitted from the former album, and one track omitted from the latter.  In 2005 Fred Records reissued the compilation on a double CD, omitting only one track from "The Country of Blinds", and adding ten live tracks taken from the band's North American and European tours, nine of which were previously unreleased. This reissue was dedicated by Fred Frith to Tom Cora, who died in 1998: "Dedicated to the memory of Tom Cora – dear friend, master musician and enthusiastic co-conspirator."
In what country is Cora? [SEP] Cora L. V. Scott  Cora Lodencia Veronica Scott (April 21, 1840 – January 3, 1923) was one of the best-known mediums of the Spiritualism movement of the last half of the 19th century. Most of her work was done as a trance lecturer, though she also wrote some books whose composition was attributed to spirit guides rather than her own personality.
In what country is Cora? [SEP] Cora Millet-Robinet  Cora Millet-Robinet (28 November 1798 – 7 December 1890) was a French agricultural innovator and silk producer. She was the author of a highly popular handbook of farming, household management and cookery, known in English as "The French Country Housewife".
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]  Kundarki is the hometown of several freedom fighters, including Babu Jiva Ram, Munshi Ratanlal and Sayeed Razi Ul Hasan. The Qawwali singer Shankar Shambhu was also from Kundarki. Nazar Haider (Parran Bhai) retired from the post of Senior Administrative Officer from Moradabad Court in 2007. IPS Officer, Ms. Ilma Afroz, native of Kundarki Village of Moradabad District, Uttar Pradesh proved that ‘nothing is impossible’. In an interview, Ms. Afroz spoke about her journey from Kundarki village to IPS officers’ portals. For her success, she gave credit to her mother. She said that her father had died when she was 10 years old and her mother supported her during her studies despite the
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]  The settlement of Kundarki (कुंदारकी) predates the Mughal Empire. Historical records show its existence as early as the 10th century. Much later, in 1363, the explorer Ibn Battuta stayed there briefly. In 1575, Kundarki became the estate of Raja Munshi Hardat Rai Sekribal, a Kayastha emperor. In 1578, he built a castle (mahal) in Kundarki, which earned his family the name "Mahal Wale". His descendants—including Babu Dinesh Bal Bhatnagar (a social worker who received the President's Award in 1984). In 1628, the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan named Abdul Razzaq Sahab as Kundarki's shahar qazi, an Islamic judge. One of his descendants, Saeyad Raza Ali,
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]  Kundarki is a town in the Moradabad district of Uttar Pradesh, India. It is located on the Moradabad–Agra highway, 18 km from the city of Moradabad.
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]  knighted by the British government and made the agent-general of South Africa. In 1874, Mir Hadi Ali, the grandfather of Sir Saeyad Raza Ali, introduced a railway station in Kundarki. Kundarki became a panchayat in 1858 and a "town area" in 1907. In 1960, it was made a community development block, and over the next 30 years, a water system (1962), power station (1976) and police station (1986) were built. In 1994, to reflect the town's development, the government of Uttar Pradesh declared it a nagar panchayat. A prominent attraction in Kundarki is its miniature Taj Mahal, made by a social worker, Chidda Khansari.
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]  Mohanbhai Kalyanjibhai Kundariya is an Indian politician and Ex Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmer Welfare in the Government of India. He was also elected to Gujarat Legislative Assembly from Tankara assembly constituency of Rajkot district.
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP] Madan Kundari  Madan Kundari is a village development committee in Kabhrepalanchok District in the Bagmati Zone of central Nepal. At the time of the 1991 Nepal census it had a population of 2,321 in 413 individual households.
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP] 2016 Nepal bus crashes  On 15 August 2016, two separate bus crashes in Nepal led to the deaths of several people; dozens more were injured. There was speculation in the aftermath of the accidents, that miscommunication regarding the availability of government grants may have led to overcrowding on one of the buses. Days of rainfall preceded the accidents.
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP]
In what country is Madan Kundari? [SEP] Chaurideurali Rural Municipality  Chaurideurali is a Rural municipality located within the Kavrepalanchowk District of the Bagmati Province of Nepal. The municipality spans of area, with a total population of 20,829 according to a 2011 Nepal census.  On March 10, 2017, the Government of Nepal restructured the local level bodies into 753 new local level structures. The previous Sanowangthali, Nagre Gagarche, Majhi Feda, Dhuseni Siwalaya, Gothpani Pokhari Chauri, Kartike Deurali, Madan Kundari, Birtadeurali and Gothpani VDCs were merged to form Chaurideurali Rural Municipality. Chaurideurali is divided into 9 wards, with Kattike Deurali declared the administrative center of the rural municipality.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]  Oborino (Оборино) is a rural locality (a village) in Vladimir, Vladimir Oblast, Russia. The population was 47 as of 2010. There is 1 street.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]  Oborino is located 12 km west of Vladimir. Spasskoye is the nearest rural locality.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]  Sergei Grigoryevich Oborin (Сергей Григорьевич Оборин; born 12 December 1956) is a Russian professional football coach and a former player.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]  Obinna Oleka (born November 4, 1993) is an American professional basketball player for BC Beroe of the Bulgarian National Basketball League. He played college basketball at Arizona State.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]  Oborin was born on 15 August 1892 in the village of Kamenka in Tver Governorate to a working-class family. He graduated from the parish school in 1903 and became a textile worker. In October 1913, he was drafted into the Imperial Russian Army. He served as a Rjadovoy in the 1st Siberian Division. Oborin graduated from a training unit a year later and became a non-commissioned officer. He fought in World War I on the Western Front in a Siberian Howitzer Artillery Battalion as an artillery observer. He was wounded. Oborin's last rank in the Imperial Army was Junior Feuerwerker. In February 1917, Oborin was discharged from the army due to illness.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP]
In what country is Oborín? [SEP] Michalovce District  Michalovce District ("okres Michalovce") is a district in the Košice Region of eastern Slovakia.  Until 1918, the district was split between the county of Kingdom of Hungary of Zemplín (in the west) and Uh (in the east).
In what country is Oborín? [SEP] Tisza  The Tisza, Tysa or Tisa, is one of the major rivers of Central and Eastern Europe. Once, it was called "the most Hungarian river" because it flowed entirely within the Kingdom of Hungary. Today, it crosses several national borders.  The Tisza begins near Rakhiv in Ukraine, at the confluence of the White Tisa and Black Tisa, which is at coordinates (the former springs in the Chornohora mountains; the latter in the Gorgany range). From there, the Tisza flows west, roughly following Ukraine's borders with Romania and Hungary, then shortly as border between Slovakia and Hungary, later into Hungary, and finally into Serbia. It enters Hungary at Tiszabecs. It traverses Hungary from north to south. A few kilometers south of the Hungarian city of Szeged, it enters Serbia. Finally, it joins the Danube near the village of Stari Slankamen in Vojvodina, Serbia.  The Tisza drains an area of about  and has a length of  Its mean annual discharge is seasonally to . It contributes about 13% of the Danube's total runoff.<ref name=Rivers_of_Europe/>  Attila the Hun is said to have been buried under a diverted section of the river Tisza.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP] Soviet Figure Skating Championships  The Soviet Figure Skating Championships were a figure skating national championship held annually to determine the national champions of the Soviet Union. Skaters competed in the disciplines of men's singles, ladies' singles, pair skating, and ice dancing.  These championships were last held in 1992 after the dissolution of the Soviet Union in 1991.
In what country is Oborín? [SEP] 2017 Winter Military World Games  The 3rd CISM World Winter Games () were held in Sochi, Russia from 23 to 27 February 2017.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]  Vladimir Parvanov Kuzov (Владимир Първанов Кузов) is a Bulgarian politician. He was an MP in the 40th National Assembly. In early 2009, several months before the end of the mandate of the National Assembly, Kouzov received a suspended sentence for child sexual abuse. and his status as an MP was taken away.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]  in Kaluga, 1987- 2nd prize ; Administrative center of the municipal settlement of Gzhel, 1988. * In a residential district, in 700 — apartments in Volsk, Russia, 1988. Music Theater in Vologda. Russia. ; Youth Leisure Center in Volsk, Russia. * Renovation of Tate Britain in London - Caro and Hockney exhibitions, the United Kingdom, 1989. ; Master plan of the new town of Tel-Zafit, Israel. ; Conference Center in Haifa, 1990 ; Design of Tel-Zafit districts, Israel, 1991. ; Draft plan of a new town — Tel-Felicia, 1991 * Planning of a residential district in El’ad, 1992 * Competition for governmental buildings in Berlin, Germany, 1993 ; 1994 Master plan
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]  Ježovy is a village and municipality (obec) in Klatovy District in the Plzeň Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 11.47 km2, and has a population of 248 (as at 28 August 2006). In 2019 it was recorded as 243. Ježovy is located approximately 11 km north of Klatovy, 31 km south of Plzeň, and 108 km south-west of Prague.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]  Chingiz Allazov was born in the village of Jandar in Gardabani district, situated on the border between Georgia and Azerbaijan. His family moved to Minsk, Belarus in 1994. He holds a business degree.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]  Kazazov (Казазов) is a rural locality (a khutor) in Pchegatlukayskoye Rural Settlement of Teuchezhsky District, the Republic of Adygea, Russia. The population was 274 as of 2018. There are 13 streets.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]
In what country is Ježov? [SEP] Nikolai Yezhov  Nikolai Ivanovich Yezhov (; 1 May 1895 – 4 February 1940) was a Soviet secret police official under Joseph Stalin who was head of the NKVD from 1936 to 1938, during the height of the Great Purge. Yezhov organized mass arrests, torture and executions during the Great Purge, but he fell from Stalin's favour and was arrested, subsequently admitting in a confession (that he later claimed was taken under torture) to a range of anti-Soviet activity including "unfounded arrests" during the Purge. He was executed in 1940 along with others who were blamed for the Purge.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP] Smilovy Hory  Smilovy Hory is a municipality and village in Tábor District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 300 inhabitants.  Smilovy Hory lies approximately north-east of Tábor, north-east of České Budějovice, and south-east of Prague.
In what country is Ježov? [SEP]
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]  The Ibăneasa is a left tributary of the river Jijia in Romania. It discharges into the Jijia in Borzești. It flows through the villages Ibănești, Dragalina, George Enescu, Dumeni, Cordăreni, Ibăneasa and Borzești. Its length is 43 km and its basin size is 189 km2.
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]  Drăgășani is a city in Vâlcea County, Romania, near the right bank of the Olt river, and on the railway between Caracal and Râmnicu Vâlcea. The city is well known for the vineyards on the neighboring hills that produce some of the best Wallachian wines. The city administers four villages: Capu Dealului, Valea Caselor, Zărneni and Zlătărei. It is situated in the historical region of Oltenia.
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]  Drăgănești is a commune in Galați County, Western Moldavia, Romania with a population of 5,827 people. It is composed of two villages, Drăgănești and Malu Alb.
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]  The Drăgan is a left tributary of the river Crișul Repede in Romania. It discharges into the Crișul Repede near Valea Drăganului. Its length is 42 km and its basin size is 254 km2.
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]  Drăgănești (Dragánfalva) is a commune in Bihor County, Crișana, Romania with a population of 2,967 people. It is composed of ten villages: Belejeni (Belényeshegy), Drăgănești, Grădinari (Kisnyégerfalva), Livada Beiușului (Belényesliváda), Mizieș (Mézes), Păcălești (established 2008), Păntășești (Panatasa), Sebiș (Körössebes), Talpe (Talp) and Țigăneștii de Beiuș (Cigányosd).
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP] Sadu (Cibin)  The Sadu () is a right tributary of the river Cibin in Romania. It discharges into the Cibin in Tălmaciu. The Negovanu and Sadu II dams are located on the Sadu. Its length is and its basin size is .
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP]
In what country is Drăgăneasa River? [SEP] World War I, it served as a border between Romania and the Russian Empire. After World War II, the river once again demarcated a border, this time between Romania and the Soviet Union. Nowadays, for a length of 695 km, it forms the border between Romania and Moldova. It has a hydrographic basin of 27,500 km, of which 10,990 km are in Romania and 7,790 km in Moldova. The largest city along its banks is Chernivtsi, Ukraine. The Stânca-Costești Dam, operated jointly by Moldova and Romania, is built on the Pruth. There is also a Hydro-Electric Station in Snyatyn, (Ukraine).
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]  Batsère (Vathsèra) is a commune in the Hautes-Pyrénées department in southwestern France.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]  Batseri is a village in Sangla Valley in the Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh state of India.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]  Batsor, also Batshar and Batchar is a village in Nalbari district of the Indian state of Western Assam. It is surrounded by Belsor, Churchuri and Goalpara.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]  Batsara Strict Nature Reserve (ბაწარის სახელმწიფო ნაკრძალი) is a protected area in Akhmeta Municipality, Kakheti region of Georgia in Pankisi Gorge on the bank of Alazani River, 700–2,000 meters above sea level  at the foot of the Greater Caucasus. It borders with Ilto Managed Reserve which includes part of Ilto valley.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]  The common bent-wing bat can be found in the following countries: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Cameroon, China, Croatia, possibly Ethiopia, France, Georgia, Gibraltar, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, possibly Kenya, North Korea, South Korea, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Malta, Montenegro, Morocco, Myanmar, Nepal, Nigeria, North Macedonia, Pakistan, Palestine, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Russian Federation, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, Slovenia, Solomon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Syrian Arab Republic, Taiwan, Tajikistan, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Vietnam, and Yemen.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]
In what country is Batsère? [SEP]
In what country is Batsère? [SEP] due to an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in the rural area in which the race is organized. Batavierenrace The Batavierenrace is a student relay race organized in the Netherlands each year in April. It is a 185 km running race starting off at the Radboud University Nijmegen in Nijmegen and it takes the up to 8500 participants in 25 stages (17 men's stages and 8 women's stages) through Germany to the campus of the University of Twente in Enschede. It was listed in 2012, in the Guinness World Records as the relay race with the highest number of participants (8,509).
In what country is Batsère? [SEP] celebrate Eid, Maharam, Fateha etc. Villeger celebrated all religious occasions together. The village is well connected to Nalbari and Gauhati by regular buses and other privately owned vehicles. National Highway 31 lies in north and it is accessible through south by Hajo-Doulashal road.বাটসৰৰ পৰা দৈনিক ৰাতিপুৱা 6:15,6:45 আৰু 7:15 ত ৩ খন পৰিবহন নিগমৰ বাছ গুৱাহাটীলৈ চলাচল কৰে। নলবাৰীলৈ যাব লাগিলে টেম্পো চলাচল কৰে। Batsor Batsor, also Batshar and Batchar is a village in Nalbari district of Western Assam. It is surrounded by villages of Belsor, Churchuri and Goalpara. Like rest of Kamrup region, language used in Batsor is Kamrupi.
In what country is Batsère? [SEP] Batsor Batsor, also Batshar and Batchar is a village in Nalbari district of Western Assam. It is surrounded by villages of Belsor, Churchuri and Goalpara. Like rest of Kamrup region, language used in Batsor is Kamrupi. এই গাওঁৰ মূল ভাষা নলবৰীয়া যদিও লিখিত ৰূপৰ অসমীয়া ভাষা সুন্দৰ ভাৱে কব পাৰে। Domahi, Amati, Durga Puja, Kali Puja (Shyama Puja, Diwali), Holi, Janmastami, Shivratri etc. are major festivals of the village. Vedic culture is widespread in day-to-day life. There are many old temples in this village namely Kali Mandir, Ma Kamakhya Mandir (south Batsor) and Durga Mandir to name a few.Muslims citizen
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]  WZRU (90.1 FM) is a radio station broadcasting a Christian music format. Licensed to Garysburg, North Carolina, United States, it serves the Roanoke Rapids, Rocky Mount, and Emporia, VA areas. The station is currently owned by Pathway Christian Academy, Inc. Shows also featured have included "Focus on the Family" and "Paul Harvey News and Comment".
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]  WZRU was once located at 88.5 FM. On May 2, 2005, WZRU swapped frequencies with WRTP-FM, giving WZRU a stronger signal.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]  NEWSru was based in Moscow, but its editorial team and location were kept secret. The network had two foreign editions: a website in Israel started in December 2005 (newsru.co.il), and a Ukrainian edition based in Kiev, which was discontinued in March 2017. Chief editor Olga Leni admitted that the Ukrainian publication had been subsidized for the entire 10 years of its existence, and the site had never been self-supporting. Other former employees agreed that the site was closed due to a pro-Ukrainian pronouncement on the conflict in Donbas.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]  WHKK ; 1999 - Station members vote unanimously against a joint sales agreement with Capstar Broadcasting Company ; 2000 - WFNX, a Boston station, extends into Providence to compete with WBRU on 103.7 (then WWRX) ; 2002 - 100.3 WZRI becomes rock WKKB (October 31) ; 2004 - 103.7 WWRX/WFNX signs off in Providence ; 2005 - 100.3 WKKB becomes a Spanish station (February 1) ; 2006 - As a three-day April Fools' Day hoax, WBRU pretends to be bought-out by "Initech" who change the station's format to "Buddy FM" ; 2006 - On June 15, WBRU begins to
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]  KVRU-LP (105.7 FM) is a low-power local radio station in southeast Seattle, Washington. The station was formerly named Rainier Valley Radio after the Rainier Valley area, where it broadcasts. It is owned by Southeast Effective Development (SEED), a non-profit economic development agency serving southeastern Seattle, which raised $400,000 to fund the station. The station broadcasts from studios in the Rainier Square Plaza housing development. KVRU began broadcasting online in 2015 and launched on the FM frequency in September 2017. The station serves the Rainier Valley neighborhood of Seattle, along with portions of Mount Baker, Georgetown, and Mercer Island. Currently, it is managed by a community organizer named Luzviminda Uzuri Carpenter also known as Lulu Carpenter. She is a local producer, educator, and artist.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP] Go Mix! Radio  Go Mix! Radio is a network of Christian radio stations in North Carolina, broadcasting Christian music and Christian talk and teaching. Go Mix! Radio is currently heard on 9 full powered stations and one translator in North Carolina.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP] List of radio stations in North Carolina  The following is a list of FCC-licensed radio stations in the U.S. state of North Carolina, which can be sorted by their call signs, frequencies, cities of license, licensees, and programming formats.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP] List of non-profit radio stations in the United States  This is a list of non-profit radio stations.
In what country is WZRU? [SEP]
In what country is WZRU? [SEP] To remedy these problems and more accurately measure the effect of policy implementation, the National Observatory of Sensitive Urban Zones (ZUS) was created in a law passed on August 1, 2003. These ZUS are distributed throughout 490 communes and include 4.7 million inhabitants. Among them a subset of 416 zones of urban renewal (ZRU) was created, including 396 in mainland France. The ZRU contain 3.2 million inhabitants, and present unique challenges. Almost all departments are affected; the only exceptions are nine strongly agricultural departments. In January 2015, after the "Charlie Hebdo" shooting, several items on Fox News labeled the ZUS
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP]  Idlorpait is a former Moravian mission in southernmost Greenland located between the missions at Lichtenau and Friedrichsthal. It was founded in 1864 and operated until 1900, when it was surrendered to the Lutheran Church of Denmark.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] Bangladesh ; Indonesia ; Nepal ; Pakistan ; Philippines ; Thailand
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP]  Adil Oralbekovich Zhalelov, - Kulmagambetov (Әdil Oralbekuly Jalelov (Kulmagambetov); born June 3, 1990, Leninskoye, Kazakh SSR), better known by his stage name Skriptonit (Scriptonite) is a Kazakh performer and music producer, founder of the Musica36. First loudly announced himself in 2013 with a video for the song "VBVVCTND", a year and a half later he released his debut album "House with Normal Phenomena", which became one of the most successful Russian-language rap albums in 2015. In 2018, he split his work into two projects: Skryptonite and Gruppa Skryptonite. As Adil himself explained, this distinction concerns not only the recording of songs, but also concerts. Thus, Gruppa Skryptonite concerts are an eight-person music band and new arrangements, while Skryptonite concerts are a "rapper + DJ" format and perform to minusovki. He is the most listened to artist in CIS for 2021 according to Music of the First.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP]  Yuthlert Sippapak (ยุทธเลิศ สิปปภาค, born November 8, 1966 in Loei, Thailand) is a Thai film director, screenwriter and producer. He is best known for his genre-blending films Killer Tattoo (comedy and action) and Buppah Rahtree (comedy and horror).
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP]  in The Hague and Blierock in Venlo. In 2018 Thai singer Wimonmat ‘Wiw’ Kangjantha joined the group, shifting the focus from instrumental music to more songs, sung in the Isan language. With Kangjantha they recorded their third single Leh Dub, which was chosen as one of the best singles of 2018 by The Bangkok Post. They toured in Singapore, Thailand and Laos, with highlights performing on the Jim Thompson Molam Bus stage of the Jai Thep Festival in Chiang Mai, and a live performance on Thai national TV-station Workpoint. 2019 brought more concerts in Thailand, followed by a tour in Europe, including shows on Fusion Festival (Germany), World Experience Festival (Romania), Na Fir Bolg (Belgium), Amsterdam Roots, and the Houtfestival (both in The Netherlands). Together
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] Idlorpait  Idlorpait is a former Moravian mission in southernmost Greenland located between the missions at Lichtenau and Friedrichsthal.  It was founded in 1864 and operated until 1900, when it was surrendered to the Lutheran Church of Denmark.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] Narsarmijit, Greenland  Narsarmijit, formerly Narsaq Kujalleq and Frederiksdal, is a settlement in southern Greenland. It is located in the Kujalleq municipality near Cape Thorvaldsen. Its population was 66 in 2020. There has been a slow but steady pattern of emigration since the late 1950s.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] Moravian missions in Greenland  The Moravian missions in Greenland (; ; ) were established by the Moravian Church or United Brethren and operated between 1733 and 1900. They were operated under the auspices of the Royal Danish College of Missions until its dissolution in 1859 and were finally surrendered to the Lutheran Church of Denmark in 1900. Missionaries were allocated to the region and sometimes even sent wives who had been chosen for them and approved by the drawing of lots, a form of Cleromancy.  They included:  A large factor in their favor despite the Danish Mission College's having already named Hans Egede as the director of mission work in the territory was the failure of Egede's own Bergen Greenland Company and a costly debacle involving the royal colony under Major Claus Paarss. Considering Greenland's sparse population, particularly after a smallpox epidemic from 1733 to 1735 brought by an Inuit youth returning from Denmark, ironically, one of the very same who so inspired Count Zinzendorf to begin the Moravian Church's missions in the first place the missions were, after a settling-in period, very successful. The United Brotherhood delivered the timber and erected the first church in 1747. Lichtenau was for a time the largest settlement in Greenland. However, the missions were forced to pay for their freight after the Greenland monopoly was granted to the General Trade Company<ref name="mishis"/> and the Royal Greenland Trading Department's Instruction of 1782 discouraged further urbanization or acculturation of the local Inuit, whose hunting the company depended upon for its income, and greatly hindered further mission work.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] Nuuk  Nuuk (; , formerly ) is the capital and largest city of Greenland, a constituent country of the Kingdom of Denmark. Nuuk is the seat of government and the country's largest cultural and economic centre. The major cities from other countries closest to the capital are Iqaluit and St. John's in Canada and Reykjavík in Iceland. Nuuk contains a third of Greenland's population and its tallest building. Nuuk is also the seat of government for the Sermersooq municipality. In January 2021, it had a population of 18,800.  The city was founded in 1728 by the Dano-Norwegian missionary Hans Egede when he relocated from the earlier Hope Colony () where he arrived in 1721. The governor Claus Paarss was part of the relocation. The new colony was placed at the Inuit settlement of Nûk and was named "Godthaab" ("Good Hope"). "Nuuk" is the Greenlandic word for "cape" () and is commonly found in Greenlandic place names. It is so named because of its position at the end of the Nuup Kangerlua fjord on the eastern shore of the Labrador Sea. Its latitude, at 64°11' N, makes it the world's northernmost capital, only a few kilometres farther north than the Icelandic capital Reykjavík. When home rule was established in 1979, the authorization of place names was transferred to Greenlandic authorities, who subsequently preferred Greenlandic names over Danish ones. The name "Godthåb" mostly went out of use over the next two decades.  The campus of the University of Greenland, hosting Statistics Greenland and the main holdings of the Public and National Library of Greenland, are at the northern end of the district, near the road to Nuuk Airport.  Nuuk receives its electric power mainly from the renewable energy-powered Buksefjord hydroelectric power plant by way of a 132 kV powerline crossing Ameralik fjord over a distance of , the world's longest free span.
In what country is Idlorpait? [SEP] to Balders Hage, but moved back to Idrottsplatsen the following year. The Swedish national team made their international debut in July 1908, winning 11–3 against Norway (who also made their international debut) in front of 2,000–3,000 people at Idrottsplatsen. Tough competition from Walhalla IP that opened in 1908 gradually worsened the economy of Idrottsplatsen, and plans for a more modern stadium materialised. In 1915, Idrottsplatsen was started to be demolished to make room for its replacement, Ullevi, which opened in 1916. Idrottsplatsen Idrottsplatsen () is a former sports stadium in Gothenburg, Sweden. The stadium was in use between 1896 and
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]  Barice is a village in the municipality of Donji Vakuf, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]  According to the 2013 census, its population was 26, all Bosniaks.
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP] 🇹🇷 Gömeç, Turkey, since 2002 Donji Vakuf is twinned with:
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]  Donji Vakuf is a town and municipality located in Central Bosnia Canton of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was founded by Malkoçoğlu İbrahim Bey in 1572 and was known as "Aşağı Vakıf" ("lower foundation" in Turkish). Donji Vakuf is the Bosnian translation of "Aşağı Vakıf".
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]  From 1929 to 1941, Donji Vakuf was part of the Vrbas Banovina of the Kingdom of Yugoslavia.
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP] Barice, Donji Vakuf  Barice is a village in the municipality of Donji Vakuf, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP] Donji Vakuf  Donji Vakuf (, ) is a town and municipality located in Central Bosnia Canton of the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, an entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  It was founded by Malkoçoğlu İbrahim Bey in 1572 and was known as "Aşağı Vakıf" ("lower foundation" in Turkish). Donji Vakuf is the Bosnian translation of "Aşağı Vakıf".
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP] Barice  Barice may refer to:
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]
In what country is Barice, Donji Vakuf? [SEP]
In what country is Habit? [SEP]  Kicking the National Habit is the debut album from British dance-rock duo Grand National. The album was released in the United Kingdom on 24 May 2004 by Sunday Best Records, and then in the United States almost two years later in March 2006. The US edition comes with seven bonus tracks, including remixes by The Glimmers and Sasha.
In what country is Habit? [SEP]  lax enforcement in some nations and states. In China, Turkey, and many other countries usually a child will have little problem buying tobacco products, because they are often told to go to the store to buy tobacco for their parents. Several countries such as Ireland, Latvia, Estonia, the Netherlands, Finland, Norway, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Portugal, Singapore, Italy, Indonesia, India, Lithuania, Chile, Spain, Iceland, United Kingdom, Slovenia, Turkey and Malta have legislated against smoking in public places, often including bars and restaurants. Restaurateurs have been permitted in some jurisdictions to build designated smoking areas (or to prohibit smoking). In the United States,
In what country is Habit? [SEP]  Bad Habits is a social conscious rock/punk/metal band from London. Bad Habits is a registered trademark in the United States, United Kingdom and other countries for entertainment and musical performances, production and recording services, merchandise and music entertainment related goods and services. They have successfully taken legal action against other parties in many of these countries misusing their mark for infringement of their intellectual property rights and won. The band line-up has experienced various changes since its original formation in 1984 by former Gypsy Leicester band members (including Robin Pizer) who when reformed decided to go in a heavier musical direction from their original formation as Gypsy and therefore used both names interchangeably with the first heavier sounding single for Bad Habits, "Lipstick Queen", (with bass playing from Algy Ward) released in 1986 on Sniffin' Rock Magazine and the release of the Gypsy band album Future Teller, containing the album track "Bad Habits", with vocals from John K. on Way Out Of Line, Lost In Berlin and Let Me In.
In what country is Habit? [SEP]  "Bad Habit" is the fourth single by UK band Foals, from their third studio album Holy Fire. The official video, unveiled on 17 June 2013, was directed by Nabil where visual effects were created by GloriaFX and features lead singer Yannis Philippakis wandering through a desert following a nude woman. The song has been featured in a BBC promotion for its Summer of Music in May 2013. The single artwork was done by Leif Podhajsky.
In what country is Habit? [SEP]  A habit (or wont as a humorous and formal term) is a routine of behavior that is repeated regularly and tends to occur subconsciously. The American Journal of Psychology (1903) defined a "habit, from the standpoint of psychology, [as] a more or less fixed way of thinking, willing, or feeling acquired through previous repetition of a mental experience." Habitual behavior often goes unnoticed in persons exhibiting it, because a person does not need to engage in self-analysis when undertaking routine tasks. Habits are sometimes compulsory. A 2002 daily experience study by habit researcher Wendy Wood and her colleagues found that approximately 43%
In what country is Habit? [SEP] The Habit Burger Grill  The Habit Burger Grill is an American fast casual restaurant chain that specializes in charbroiled hamburgers. The company also sells other typical fast-casual fare.  In March 2020, Yum! Brands, the parent company of KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Wingstreet, acquired The Habit Burger Grill.
In what country is Habit? [SEP] Habits (Stay High)  "Habits (Stay High)" is a song recorded by Swedish singer Tove Lo from her debut extended play (EP), "Truth Serum", and her debut studio album, "Queen of the Clouds" (2014). It was written by Lo with Ludvig Söderberg and Jakob Jerlström, while it was produced by the latter two under the production name The Struts. Initially, the singer self-released the song under the title "Habits" on 15 March 2013 as her second independently released single. After Lo was signed to Universal Music, the track was re-released on 6 December 2013 under the title of "Habits (Stay High)" as both the second single from "Truth Serum" and the lead single from "Queen of the Clouds". Musically, it is a pop and electropop song which features a minimal and upbeat electronic instrumentation. Its lyrics delve into the singer's attempts to forget her previous boyfriend through substance abuse, drinking and other hedonistic practices. Consequently, some critics and Lo herself noted a contrast between the song's production and its lyrical content.  "Habits (Stay High)" was well received by most critics, who commended its lyrics and production. The track became a sleeper hit; it entered the music charts in 2014, one year after its original release. The recording peaked at number three on the "Billboard" Hot 100 in the United States and became the highest-charting song by a Swedish artist on that chart since "The Sign" by Ace of Base peaked at number one in 1994. It was certified 5× platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and has sold over 2.6 million copies in the country. Additionally, the track topped the charts in Poland and Romania, and peaked within the top ten in Austria, Canada, France and Switzerland, among others.  Two music videos were filmed for the song, both directed by Motellet Film. The first version, released on 15 March 2013, featured the singer at a tea party while getting drunk with her guests. It reached half-a-million views on YouTube before it was made private one year after its release. The second version was filmed at a Swedish club over three days and depicts Lo in a night of partying with her friends. The singer performed the single at festivals such as South by Southwest and the Hangout Music Festival, and included it on the set list of her tours, the Queen of the Clouds Tour (2015) and the Lady Wood Tour (2017). The single was awarded the Song of the Year award at the Grammis of 2015 in Sweden. A remix by record production duo Hippie Sabotage, titled "Stay High", was released as the third single from "Truth Serum" and reached the top ten in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and other countries in Europe. The song has been covered by artists such as Vin Diesel, whose performance was a tribute to his late friend Paul Walker, and Kelly Clarkson, who performed the track on her Piece by Piece Tour (2015).
In what country is Habit? [SEP] Slave to the Habit  "Slave to the Habit" is a song recorded by American country music artist Shane Minor. It was his debut single and was released in March 1999 as the first single from the album "Shane Minor". The song reached number 20 on the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart and peaked at number 8 on the "RPM" Country Tracks chart in Canada. It was written by Toby Keith, Chuck Cannon, and Kostas.
In what country is Habit? [SEP]
In what country is Habit? [SEP] Bad Habit (album)  Bad Habit is the second studio album recorded by Canadian singer and songwriter Alee and first to be distributed by a record label. It was released April 21, 2017 through Wax Records and Universal Music Canada. The album includes the top 50 single, "When I Do", as well as three singles previously released from Alee's 2015 EP, "Say Hello to Goodbye". Alee co-wrote all nine tracks.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]   Sabiote is a municipality in the province of Jaén, Spain.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]  forest plantations, of which around 82% are radiata pine. It is the largest exporter of forestry products and supplies raw materials for pulp and paper plants, sawmills, and related activities. The fishing industry is another dynamic sector. The region possesses 32% of the country's total fishing fleet, while approximately 50% of the national catch is unloaded at its ports. Moreover, this region alone is responsible for 4% of the world's catch of seafood. Main items include shellfish and conger eel, sardines, anchovy, mackerel, hake, mollusks, crustaceans, and algae. High-quality fertile soils support a wide variety of crops, principally produce, grains, vegetables, artificial and improved pastures. Animal husbandry focuses on production of beef, milk, and dairy products. Mining activity includes non-metallic minerals, principally quartz for the glass and steel industries.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]  Guadalupe Sabio Buzo (born 4 June 1977) is a Spanish scientist and Professor at the Spanish National Cardiovascular Research Centre, which is part of the Carlos III Health Institute. Her research considers stress-activated kinases and the development of diseases associated with obesity. She was awarded the Princess of Girona Foundation Scientist Prize in 2012 and selected as one of the Top 100 Women Leaders in Spain in 2017.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]  This species is native to Africa including Madagascar. It is also widespread in Central and South America. In Europe, it has been reported in Austria, Georgia, Spain, and the United Kingdom.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]  Saurogobio is a genus of cyprinid fish found in eastern Asia.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP] Sabiote  Sabiote is a municipality in the province of Jaén, Spain.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP] Villacarrillo  Villacarrillo is a locality and Spanish municipality located in the south-western part of the region of Las Villas, in the province of Jaén. It borders the municipalities of Santisteban del Puerto, Iznatoraf, Villanueva del Arzobispo, Santiago-Pontones, Santo Tomé, Úbeda (by the enclave known as Rincón de Úbeda), and Sabiote.  The municipality includes the population centers of Villacarrillo - which hosts the capital of the Las Villas region -, Mogón, La Caleruela, Agrupación de Mogón y Arroturas. It has a population of 10,902 inhabitants.
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP]
In what country is Sabiote? [SEP] Torreperogil (Vino de la Tierra)  Torreperogil is a Spanish geographical indication for Vino de la Tierra wines located in the autonomous region of Andalusia. "Vino de la Tierra" is one step below the mainstream Denominación de Origen indication on the Spanish wine quality ladder.  The area covered by this geographical indication comprises the municipalities of Úbeda, Sabiote, Rus, Cabra del Santo Cristo, Canena and Torreperogil, in the province of Jaén, (Andalusia, Spain).   It acquired its "Vino de la Tierra" status in 2006.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]  Kalateh-ye Safdarabad (, also Romanized as Kalāteh-ye Safdarābād) is a village in Titkanlu Rural District, Khabushan District, Faruj County, North Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 717, in 182 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]  Kalateh-ye Aqazadeh (, also Romanized as Kalāteh-ye Āqāzādeh) is a village in Qasabeh-ye Gharbi Rural District, in the Central District of Sabzevar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 113, in 35 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]  Kalateh-ye Hajji Barat (, also Romanized as Kalāteh-ye Ḩājjī Barāt) is a village in Qasabeh-ye Sharqi Rural District, in the Central District of Sabzevar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 12, in 4 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]  Bidak (, also Romanized as Bīdak; also known as Kalāteh-ye Bīdak) is a village in Kuh Hamayi Rural District, Rud Ab District, Sabzevar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 31, in 8 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]  Kalateh-ye Qalichi (, also Romanized as Kalāteh-ye Qalīchī) is a village in Qasabeh-ye Gharbi Rural District, in the Central District of Sabzevar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 14, in 4 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP] Kalateh-ye Safdarabad  Kalateh-ye Safdarabad (, also Romanized as Kalāteh-ye Safdarābād) is a village in Titkanlu Rural District, Khabushan District, Faruj County, North Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 717, in 182 families.
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]
In what country is Kalateh-ye Safdarabad? [SEP]
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]  Cham Karim (, also Romanized as Cham Karīm and Cham-e Karīm; also known as Chamkārī) is a village in Itivand-e Jonubi Rural District, Kakavand District, Delfan County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 139, in 29 families.
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]   Cham people represent the core of the Muslim communities in both Cambodia and Vietnam. Their contemporary population is concentrated between the Kampong Cham Province in Cambodia and Phan Rang–Tháp Chàm, Phan Thiết, Ho Chi Minh City and An Giang Province in Southern Vietnam. Including the diaspora, their total is about 400,000. An additional 4,000 Chams live in Bangkok, Thailand, whose ancestors migrated there during Rama I's reign. Recent immigrants to Thailand are mainly students and workers, who preferably seek work and education in the southern Islamic Pattani, Narathiwat, Yala and Songkhla provinces. After the fall of Saigon in Vietnam and Phnom Penh in Cambodia in 1975, 9,704 Cham refugees made their way to Malaysia and were
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]  from observing their religious beliefs. Hindu temples were turned into tourist sites against the wishes of the Cham Hindus. In 2010 and 2013 several incidents occurred in Thành Tín and Phươc Nhơn villages where Cham were murdered by Vietnamese. In 2012, Vietnamese police in Chau Giang village stormed into a Cham Mosque, stole the electric generator, and also raped Cham girls. Cham in the Mekong Delta have also been economically marginalised, with ethnic Vietnamese settling on land previously owned by Cham people with state support. The Indonesian government has outright denied the existence of indigenous peoples within the countries' borders. In 2012, Indonesia stated that
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]  and in contacts with other Islamic communities. Each Muslim community has a hakem who leads the community and the mosque, an imam who leads the prayers, and a bilal who calls the faithful to the daily prayers. The peninsula of Chrouy Changvar near Phnom Penh is considered the spiritual center of the Cham, and several high Muslim officials reside there. Each year some of the Cham go to study the Qur'an at Kelantan in Malaysia, and some go on to study in, or make a pilgrimage to, Mecca. According to figures from the late 1950s, about 7 percent of the Cham had completed the pilgrimage and could wear the fez or
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]   The Cham in Vietnam are officially recognized by the Vietnamese government as one of 54 ethnic groups. However, according to the Cham advocacy group International Office of Champa (IOC-Champa) and Cham Muslim activist Khaleelah Porome, both Hindu and Muslim Chams have experienced religious and ethnic persecution and restrictions on their faith under the current Vietnamese government, with the Vietnamese state confisticating Cham property and forbidding Cham from observing their religious beliefs. Hindu temples were turned into tourist sites against the wishes of the Cham Hindus. In 2010 and 2013 several incidents occurred in Thành Tín and Phươc Nhơn villages where Cham were murdered by Vietnamese. In 2012, Vietnamese police in Chau Giang village stormed into a Cham
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP] Cham Karim  Cham Karim (, also Romanized as Cham Karīm and Cham-e Karīm; also known as Chamkārī) is a village in Itivand-e Jonubi Rural District, Kakavand District, Delfan County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 139, in 29 families.
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP] Karim Ahmad Khan  Karim Asad Ahmad Khan KC (born 30 March 1970) is a British lawyer and specialist in international criminal law and international human rights law who has served as Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court since 2021.  Following his appointment by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, he was, until 2021, an Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations and served as the Special Adviser and Head of the UN Investigative Team for the Promotion of Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL in Iraq (UNITAD), which was established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 2379 (2017) to support domestic efforts to hold the Islamic State accountable for acts that may amount to war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity in Iraq.  On 12 February 2021, Khan was elected the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP] Karim Hirji  Karim Hirji is a Ugandan businessman, hotel owner and entrepreneur. He is reported to be one of the wealthiest individuals in Uganda, with an estimated net worth of about US$800 million.
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]
In what country is Cham Karim? [SEP]
In what country is Tad? [SEP]  TAD Corporation (TADコーポレーション) was a Japanese manufacturer of video arcade games that was founded and headquartered in Mitaka-shi, Tokyo, Japan. It was founded by former employees of the company Data East and was named after its founder and owner name Tadashi "TAD" Yokoyama. They are best known for their first video arcade game, the 1988 shooting gallery-type Cabal, as well as their second one, the 1989 run 'n' gun-style platformer Toki (known in Japan as JuJu Densetsu). In Japan, Taito, Tecmo and Sammy assisted TAD in distributing their arcade titles, while Fabtek distributed every arcade title of TAD's internationally with permission (who were also known for internationally distributing arcade titles by Seibu Kaihatsu with permission). TAD Corporation also licensed its titles for arcade-to-console porting to other companies such as Ocean Software,
In what country is Tad? [SEP]  Tad (often styled as TAD) was an American rock band from Seattle, Washington, formed in 1988 by Tad Doyle. They are often recognized as one of the first bands of the grunge era.
In what country is Tad? [SEP]  Tad (, also Romanized as Ţād and Tād) is a village in Bazarjan Rural District, in the Central District of Tafresh County, Markazi Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 89, in 32 families.
In what country is Tad? [SEP]  Tad is an unincorporated community in Kanawha County, West Virginia, United States. Tad is 7.5 mi east of Charleston. Tad has a post office with ZIP code 25201. An early postmaster gave the community the name of his son, Talmadge "Tad" Dunlap.
In what country is Tad? [SEP]  Tada Station (多田駅) is a railway station in the city of Sano, Tochigi, Japan, operated by the private railway operator Tōbu Railway. The station is numbered "TI-38".
In what country is Tad? [SEP] Tad, Markazi  Tad (, also Romanized as Ţād and Tād) is a village in Bazarjan Rural District, in the Central District of Tafresh County, Markazi Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 89, in 32 families.
In what country is Tad? [SEP] Tad, The Lost Explorer  Tad, the Lost Explorer (Spanish: Las aventuras de Tadeo Jones) is a 2012 Spanish 3D computer-animated adventure comedy film directed by Enrique Gato. The film is a spinoff of Gato's 2004 short film, "Tadeo Jones" and its sequel "",  The film premiered at the Annecy International Animation Film Festival on 5 June 2012 and was theatrically released on 31 August 2012 in Spain by Paramount Pictures. The film received positive reviews from Spanish critics, but it was not well received in North America and it earned €45 million on an €8 million budget, making it a box-office hit.  It was nominated for 5 Goya Awards, winning 3 for Best Animated Film, Best New Director and Best Adapted Screenplay at the 27th Goya Awards.  A sequel, titled "Tad the Lost Explorer and the Secret of King Midas", was released in 2017. The final installment titled "Tad, the Lost Explorer and the Emerald Tablet" was released in August 2022.
In what country is Tad? [SEP] Tad, West Virginia  Tad is an unincorporated community in Kanawha County, West Virginia, United States. Tad is east of Charleston. Tad has a post office with ZIP code 25201.  An early postmaster gave the community the name of his son, Talmadge "Tad" Dunlap.
In what country is Tad? [SEP] Tad, Isfahan  Taad (, also Romanized as Ţād and Tād; also known as Yād) is a village in Pir Bakran District, Falavarjan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,671, in 993 families.
In what country is Tad? [SEP] Tad Wieman  Elton Ewart "Tad" Wieman (October 4, 1896 – December 26, 1971) was an American football collegiate player, coach and athletic director. He played football for the University of Michigan from 1915 to 1917 and 1920 under head coach Fielding H. Yost. He was a coach and administrator at Michigan from 1921 to 1929, including two years as the school's head football coach. He later served as a football coach at the University of Minnesota (1930–1931), Princeton University (1932–1942), and Columbia University (1944–1945), and as an athletic director at the University of Maine (1946–1951) and University of Denver (1951–1962). He was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a coach in 1956.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]  The Vienne (Vinhana, ) is a major river in south-western France. It is 363 km long. It is a significant left tributary of the lower Loire. It supports numerous hydroelectric dams, and it is the main river of the northern part of the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. Two French departments are named after the Vienne: Haute-Vienne (87) in the Limousin region and Vienne (86) both in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]  The Noire River (in French: rivière Noire) is a watercourse running through the municipalities of Saint-Zénon, Sainte-Émélie-de-l'Énergie and Saint-Jean-de-Matha, in the Matawinie Regional County Municipality (MRC), in the administrative region of Lanaudière, in Quebec, in Canada.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]  The Fanambana River is located in northern Madagascar and crosses the Route Nationale 5a near Fanambana. Its sources are situated in the Marojejy Massif and flows into the Indian Ocean south of Vohemar.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]  The Matapédia River is internationally recognized for its many pools for fishing for Atlantic salmon. To safeguard these pools for future generations, the wildlife reserve Rivières-Matapédia-et-Patapédia was established on a part of its course to protect this resource. The Matapédia flat is located near the mouth of the Restigouche just north of the bridge.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]  The rivière la Retenue (English: Retained River) is a tributary of the east bank of the Ferrée river. It flows in the municipalities of Château-Richer and L'Ange-Gardien, in the La Côte-de-Beaupré Regional County Municipality, in the administrative region of Capitale-Nationale, in the province of Quebec, in Canada. The lower part of this valley is served by roads around Lac la Retenue. The intermediate part which follows the foot of the big mountain, is served by a forest road for the needs of forestry and the maintenance of high-voltage lines of Hydro-Quebec. The upper part, which is difficult to access because of the mountainous terrain, is served by a forest road from the north. Forestry is the main economic activity in this valley; second, recreational tourism. The surface of the Retained River is generally frozen from the beginning of December until the end of March; however, safe traffic on the ice is generally from mid-December to mid-March. The upper part of the river is subject to a frost period of about a week more due to the altitude. The water level of the river varies with the seasons and the precipitation; the spring flood occurs in March or April.
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP]
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP] Zec de la Rivière-de-la-Trinité The ZEC de la Rivière-de-la-Trinité is a "zone d'exploitation contrôlée" ("controlled harvesting zone") (ZEC) located in the unorganized territory of Rivière-aux-Outardes, in the Manicouagan Regional County Municipality, in the administrative region of Côte-Nord (North Shore), in Quebec, in Canada. This river descends in wilderness from north to south. It includes 74 km of river accessible to users. In the southern part of the ZEC, the river bifurcates at 90 degrees toward east, to go empty into the bay of Baie-Trinité. The southern part of the river is easily accessible by the route 138 which follows the
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP] Diffused pollution is difficult to control because it has a multitude of sources throughout the whole region. Yet without a solution to this problem the water quality of the river will never have the desired quality. L'Assomption River The Assomption River (in French "Rivière l'Assomption", named after the Assumption of Mary) is the most important waterway in the Lanaudière region of Quebec, Canada. It is over long, and has a drainage basin (watershed) of . Its source is the Mont Tremblant massif. Seven significant rivers flow into the Assomption (de la Boule, Versailles, Noire, la Chaloupe, Ouareau, Saint-Esprit, and Achigan)
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP] Delta de la Dranse National Nature Reserve The Delta de la Dranse National Nature Reserve is a nature reserve located in the delta of the Dranse river. The reserve is located to the east of the commune of Thonon-les-Bains in southeastern France. At long by wide, it covers a small area of at an elevation ranging from . Offering a rich botanic biodiversity, the site was declared a national nature reserve in January 1980 and declared a special "zone of protection" since September 1986. The beach of the last river delta along Lake Geneva is constituted of alluvium, sand, stones,
In what country is Fântâneaua Rece River? [SEP] of 21.5 km from the village of Monnières to the confluence. It has a horseshoe weir (Chaussée Des Moines) and lock at Vertou, and a tidal sluice open to boats an hour before and after high tide at Pont-Rousseau, in the suburbs of Nantes. Its left-bank tributary, the Petite-Maine, is also navigable over a length of 5 km up to the first disused lock and weir. The river is an important resource for tourism in the region. Beyond the navigable section, the river is a popular destination for canoeists. Sèvre Nantaise The Sèvre Nantaise is a river in western France,
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP]  Panaitoliko (Παναιτωλικό) is a mountain range in the northeastern part of Aetolia-Acarnania and southwestern Evrytania, in western Greece. Its highest summit, Katelanos (Κατελάνος), is the highest point of Aetolia-Acarnania at 1,924 m. Its length is approximately 25 km long from east to west and its width is approximately 15 km wide. The nearest mountains are Kaliakouda to the northeast, the mountains of Nafpaktia to the southeast and Valtou to the northwest. Lake Trichonida lies to the south. The Panaitoliko extends from the Acheloos valley in the northwest to the Evinos valley in the east. There are forests in the lower areas, and grasslands in the higher elevations. The municipal unit of Panaitoliko took its name from this mountain range. Villages near the Panaitoliko include Prousos in the north, Mesokomi in the northeast, Amvrakia in the southeast, Skoutera in the southwest and Agios Vlasios in the northwest.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP]  Panetolikos' training center, named "Emileon", in Municipal Apartment of Dokimi, Agrinio. Emileon, the training center that escapes from Greek standards and is approaching the European. Α real jewel, not only for the "canaries", but also for Greek sports as a whole. A jewel made by the president of Panetolikos, Fotis Kostoulas. Soccer fields, swimming pools, courts, tennis, basketball and beach volleyball create a unique place. A place that is enjoyed not only by the football players, but also by the citizens of Agrinio.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP]  Aitoliko (Greek: Αιτωλικό) is a town and a former municipality in Aetolia-Acarnania, West Greece, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Messolonghi, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 129.305 km2. It is located north of the Acheloos delta. The Greek National Road 5/E55 passes through the municipal unit. It is located SW of Agrinion, about 20 km NW of Messolonghi, W of Nafpaktos and the Rio-Antirrio bridge and SE of Astakos. Until it became a part of Greece, it was known as Anatoliko (Ανατολικό), meaning eastern.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP]  Panetolikos Stadium (Greek: Γήπεδο Παναιτωλικού Gipedo Panaitolikou) is a multi-use stadium in Agrinio in Aetolia-Acarnania, Greece. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Panetolikos. The stadium is located at Prousiotissis Street and it holds a capacity of 5,230 all-seated. Its highest attendance was 11,012 during a match against Olympiakos in 1977. There are plans to increase the seating capacity of the stadium to 11,000 in the future if necessary. Nowadays the average attendance is 5,000 (6,288 after expansion completion). Even though Agrinio is small city, Panetolikos supporters known as "The Warriors" are well known for their loyalty for the team.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP]  Perlikos was born in Piraeus, Greece. He has lived in Profitou Ilia, Nea Smirni, Paleo Faliro, and Kallithea, all areas of Athens, Greece. He studied medicine and is now employed as a medical doctor in Sotiria Hospital. He claims to be a normal everyday citizen, not a professional politician, and not rich.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP] Panaitoliko  Panaitoliko (Greek: Παναιτωλικό) is a former municipality in Aetolia-Acarnania, West Greece, Greece. Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality Agrinio, of which it is a municipal unit. The municipal unit has an area of 105.976 km. Population 1,386 (2011). The seat of the municipality was in Skoutera.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP] Panetolikos F.C.  Panetolikos Football Club (), or with its full name Panetolikós Yimnastikós Filekpedeftikós Síllogos ("; Pan-Aetolian Gymnastic and Educational Club"), is a Greek professional football club based in Agrinio, Greece. Panetolikos was founded in 1926 and is considered one of the historical clubs in Greece, currently participating in the Greek First Division. Some of the most well known players that started their career in the club are Stratos Apostolakis, former Greek recordman in international caps (96), and Petros Michos.  Team colors are yellow and blue. The club's symbol is Titormus, the ancient Aetolian hero and their motto is ""Τίτορμος Αιτωλός Ούτος Άλλος Ηρακλής"" ("Títormos" "Etolós Oútos Állos Iraklís)," translated as "Titormus the Aetolian is another Heracles".
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP] Aetolia-Acarnania  Aetolia-Acarnania (, "Aitoloakarnanía", ) is one of the regional units of Greece. It is part of the geographic region of Central Greece and the administrative region of West Greece. A combination of the historical regions of Aetolia and Acarnania, it is the country's largest regional unit. Its capital is Missolonghi for historical reasons, with its biggest city and economic centre at Agrinio. The area is now connected with the Peloponnese peninsula via the Rio-Antirio Bridge. The surrounding regional units take in Arta in Epirus, a narrow length bordering Karditsa of Thessaly, Evrytania to the northeast, and Phocis to the east.
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP] Evrytania  Evrytania (, ; Latin: "Eurytania") is one of the regional units of Greece. It is part of the region of Central Greece. Its capital is Karpenisi (approx. 8,000 inhabitants).
In what country is Panaitoliko? [SEP] Achelous River  The Achelous (, "Akhelôios"), also Acheloos, is a river in western Greece. It is long. It formed the boundary between Acarnania and Aetolia of antiquity. It empties into the Ionian Sea. In ancient times its spirit was venerated as the river god Achelous.  Herodotus, taking notice of the shoreline-transforming power of the Acheloos River, even compared it to the Nile in this respect:  It is said to have been called more anciently "Thoas", "Axenus" and "Thestius".
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP]  Villalcampo is a municipality located in the province of Zamora, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 624 inhabitants.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Villalcampo (288 inhabitants, INE 2020). ; Carbajosa (123 inhabitants, INE 2020). ; Salto de Villalcampo (0 inhabitants, INE 2020). Villalcampo is home to the town hall of 3 villages:
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP]  Villa La Angostura (Spanish for Town of the Narrowing) is a town located in the Los Lagos Department in the south of the Argentine province of Neuquén, on the northwest shore of the Nahuel Huapi Lake. Nestled in the northern part of the Nahuel Huapi National Park, and surrounded by lakes, forests and mountains, it is considered to be one of the most beautiful locations in the mountainous parts of Patagonia; earning it the nickname Garden of Patagonia (Spanish: Jardín de la Patagonia). Just located a couple of kilometers away from the border with Chile through the Cardenal Antonio Samoré Pass and with other nearby places such as Bariloche and San Martín de los Andes, it forms a popular tourist corridor during both summer and winter.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Aso Villa (President)
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP]  Piedecuesta (, officially Villa de San Carlos del Pie de la Cuesta) is a town and municipality in the Santander Department in northeastern Colombia, South America. It has a population of about 120,000. It is part of the metropolitan zone of Bucaramanga, which is the fifth largest urban area of Colombia by population.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Villalcampo  Villalcampo is a municipality located in the province of Zamora, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 624 inhabitants.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP]
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Sayago  Sayago is a "comarca" (county, but with no administrative role) in the province of Zamora in central Spain.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Province of Salamanca  Salamanca () is a province of western Spain, in the western part of the autonomous community of Castile and León (Castilla y León). It is bordered by the provinces of Zamora, Valladolid, Ávila, and Cáceres, and on the west by Portugal. It has an area of 12,349 km² and in 2018 had a population of 331,473 people. It is divided into 362 municipalities, 11 comarcas, 32 mancomunidades and five judicial districts. Of the 362 municipalities, more than half are villages with fewer than 300 people.
In what country is Villalcampo? [SEP] Douro  The Douro (, , ; ; ) is the highest-flow river of the Iberian Peninsula. It rises near Duruelo de la Sierra in Soria Province, central Spain, meanders south briefly then flows generally west through the north-west part of central Spain and into northern Portugal, to its mouth at Porto, the second largest city of Portugal. At its mouth it meets the Atlantic Ocean.  The scenic Douro railway line runs close to the river. Adjacent areas produce port (a mildly fortified wine) and other agricultural produce. A small tributary of the river has the Côa Valley Paleolithic Art site which is considered important to the archaeological pre-historic patrimony, designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Within Spain, it flows through the middle of the autonomous community of Castile and León, with the basin spanning through the northern half of the Meseta Central. The latter includes wine producing areas such as the Ribera del Duero DOP.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]  Scheidt is a product of the youth team systems of various American and German sides. He was also part of the teams as San Martín (SJ), and Leixões, but mainly played for their reserve teams and failed to debut in the first teams.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]  Gintarė Volungevičiūtė-Scheidt (November 12, 1982) is an Olympic medal-winning dinghy sailor from Lithuania.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]  Athanasios Augustus Scheidt (Αθανάσιος Αύγουστος Σέιντ; born 24 March 1998) is an American soccer player of Greek descent who plays as a midfielder for Polish club Radomiak Radom.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]  Most of the population speaks German (79.1%), with Romansh being second most common (19.4%) and Portuguese being third ( 0.7%).
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]  Scheidt was born in New Jersey, United States, to Greek parents. Scheidt's father, John as well as sister, Joan, were both soccer players. Raised in Wall Township, New Jersey, Scheidt played prep soccer at Christian Brothers Academy.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP] Scheidt, Rhineland-Palatinate  Scheidt is a Ortsgemeinde ("legally distinct municipality"), in the municipal association of Diez in the district of Rhein-Lahn, in Rhineland-Palatinate, in western Germany.
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP]
In what country is Scheidt? [SEP] Samuel Scheidt  Samuel Scheidt (baptised 3 November 1587 – 24 March 1654) was a German composer, organist and teacher of the early Baroque era.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]  Toronto Northwest was a federal electoral district represented in the House of Commons of Canada from 1925 to 1935. It was located in the city of Toronto in the province of Ontario. This riding was created in 1924 from parts of Parkdale, Toronto North and York South ridings. It consisted of the part of the city of Toronto north of Bloor Street, west of Bathurst St. and east of the Northern Division of the Canadian National Railway, the main line of the Canadian Pacific Railway eastward and Landsdowne Avenue. The electoral district was abolished in 1933 when it was redistributed between Davenport, Spadina, Trinity and York West ridings.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]  The CN Tower in Toronto is among the most internationally notable attractions in the Golden Horseshoe. The region is home to several shopping malls such as Yorkdale Shopping Centre, Toronto Eaton Centre, Fairview Mall, Scarborough Town Centre, and Sherway Gardens. Located in the suburbs of Toronto are Vaughan Mills in Vaughan, Bramalea City Centre in Brampton, Square One Shopping Centre in Mississauga, and Pacific Mall, in Markham. Annual cultural festivals that draw tourists and local alike include the Toronto Caribbean Carnival (formerly known as Caribana) and Taste of the Danforth in Toronto. The Niagara Escarpment, a world biosphere reserve as designated by the United Nations, runs from the north at Bruce Peninsula and then east through the region cutting
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]  North by Northeast (or NXNE) is an annual music and arts festival held each June in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The festival's main focus is live music, but it also includes an eSports gaming tournament, comedy, a conversations series, a flea market and more. The festival events happen in a variety venues with free events on Canada's largest street, Yonge Street with events on the Street and in Yonge Dundas Square. In addition to full-time staff, the festival also has about 1,000 volunteers in festival operations. The alternative weekly newspaper Now was a major sponsor, and Now co-founder Michael Hollett owns NXNE in partnership with SXSW.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]  Toronto is a lakeside suburb within the city of Lake Macquarie, Greater Newcastle in New South Wales, Australia, approximately 28 km from Newcastle's central business district and is a commercial hub for the sprawling suburbs on the western shore of the lake. It is one of the major centres in the City of Lake Macquarie LGA.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]  Toronto   is the capital city of the Canadian province of Ontario. With a recorded population of 2,731,571 in 2016, it is the most populous city in Canada and the fourth most populous city in North America. The city is the anchor of the Golden Horseshoe, an urban agglomeration of 9,245,438 people (as of 2016) surrounding the western end of Lake Ontario, while the Greater Toronto Area proper had a 2016 population of 6,417,516. Toronto is an international centre of business, finance, arts, and culture, and is recognized as one of the most multicultural and cosmopolitan cities in the world. Indigenous peoples have travelled through and inhabited the Toronto area, located on a broad sloping plateau interspersed with
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP]
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP] Canada  Canada is a country in North America. Its ten provinces and three territories extend from the Atlantic Ocean to the Pacific Ocean and northward into the Arctic Ocean, covering over , making it the world's second-largest country by total area. Its southern and western border with the United States, stretching , is the world's longest binational land border. Canada's capital is Ottawa, and its three largest metropolitan areas are Toronto, Montreal, and Vancouver.  Indigenous peoples have continuously inhabited what is now Canada for thousands of years. Beginning in the 16th century, British and French expeditions explored and later settled along the Atlantic coast. As a consequence of various armed conflicts, France ceded nearly all of its colonies in North America in 1763. In 1867, with the union of three British North American colonies through Confederation, Canada was formed as a federal dominion of four provinces. This began an accretion of provinces and territories and a process of increasing autonomy from the United Kingdom. This widening autonomy was highlighted by the Statute of Westminster 1931 and culminated in the Canada Act 1982, which severed the vestiges of legal dependence on the Parliament of the United Kingdom.  Canada is a parliamentary democracy and a constitutional monarchy in the Westminster tradition. The country's head of government is the prime minister, who holds office by virtue of their ability to command the confidence of the elected House of Commons, and is appointed by the governor general, representing the monarch of Canada, the head of state. The country is a Commonwealth realm and is officially bilingual (English and French) at the federal level. It ranks among the highest in international measurements of government transparency, civil liberties, quality of life, economic freedom, education, gender equality and environmental sustainability. It is one of the world's most ethnically diverse and multicultural nations, the product of large-scale immigration. Canada's long and complex relationship with the United States has had a significant impact on its economy and culture.  A highly developed country, Canada has the 24th highest nominal per capita income globally and the fifteenth-highest ranking on the Human Development Index. Its advanced economy is the eighth-largest in the world, relying chiefly upon its abundant natural resources and well-developed international trade networks. Canada is part of several major international and intergovernmental institutions or groupings including the United Nations, NATO, the G7, the Group of Ten, the G20, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Commonwealth of Nations, the Arctic Council, the , the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum, and the Organization of American States.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP] Girl from the North Country (musical)  Girl from the North Country is a musical with a book by Conor McPherson using the songs of Bob Dylan. It is the second Broadway show to use Dylan's music after Twyla Tharp's "The Times They Are a-Changin'".
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP] Northwest Territories  The Northwest Territories (abbreviated "NT" or "NWT"; , formerly "North-Western Territory" and "North-West Territories" and namely shortened as "Northwest Territory") is a federal territory of Canada. At a land area of approximately and a 2016 census population of 41,790, it is the second-largest and the most populous of the three territories in Northern Canada. Its estimated population as of 2022 is 45,605.<ref name=StatCan2016Q1Est/> Yellowknife is the capital, most populous community, and only city in the territory; its population was 19,569 as of the 2016 census. It became the territorial capital in 1967, following recommendations by the Carrothers Commission.  The Northwest Territories, a portion of the old North-Western Territory, entered the Canadian Confederation on July 15, 1870. Since then, the territory has been divided four times to create new provinces and territories or enlarge existing ones. Its current borders date from April 1, 1999, when the territory's size was decreased again by the creation of a new territory of Nunavut to the east, through the "Nunavut Act" and the Nunavut Land Claims Agreement. While Nunavut is mostly Arctic tundra, the Northwest Territories has a slightly warmer climate and is both boreal forest (taiga) and tundra, and its most northern regions form part of the Arctic Archipelago.  The Northwest Territories is bordered by Canada's two other territories, Nunavut to the east and Yukon to the west, and by the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta, and Saskatchewan to the south; it also touches Manitoba to the southeast at a quadripoint that includes Nunavut and Saskatchewan. The land area of the Northwest Territories is vast enough to be roughly equal to France, Portugal and Spain combined, although its overall area is even larger because of its vast lakes that freeze over in winter.
In what country is Toronto Northwest? [SEP] North York  North York is a former township and city and is now one of the six administrative districts of Toronto, Ontario, Canada. It is located directly north of York, Old Toronto and East York, between Etobicoke to the west and Scarborough to the east. As of the 2016 Census, the district has a population of 869,401.  North York was created as a township in 1922 out of the northern part of the former township of York, a municipality that was located along the western border of Old Toronto. Following its inclusion in Metropolitan Toronto in 1953, it was one of the fastest-growing parts of the region due to its proximity to Old Toronto. It was declared a borough in 1967, and later became a city in 1979, attracting high-density residences, rapid transit, and a number of corporate headquarters in North York City Centre, its central business district. In 1998, North York was dissolved as part of the amalgamation which created the new city of Toronto. It has since been a secondary economic hub of the city outside Downtown Toronto.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]  Gornji Davidovići is a village in the municipality of Bileća, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]  Donji Davidovići is a village in the municipality of Bileća, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]  Davidovići is a village in the municipality of Dobretići, Central Bosnia Canton, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]  According to the 2013 census, its population was 50, all Croats.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]  Gornji Slaveči (Felsőcsalogány, Ober Slabitsch ) is a village in the Municipality of Kuzma in the Prekmurje region of Slovenia. Under the Austro-Hungarian Empire, the village was part of the lordship of Grad. Until 1920 Gornji Slaveči belonged to Hungary, and after the Treaty of Trianon it belonged to Yugoslavia. During the Second World War it was annexed by Hungary, and after 1945 it belonged to Yugoslavia again. Since the foundation of the Republic of Slovenia it has belonged to Slovenia. There is a large Lutheran church in the settlement. It was built in 1928.
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP] Davidovici  Davidovici may refer to:
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]
In what country is Gornji Davidovići? [SEP]
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP]  Hobbledehoy Record Co. is an artistic-centric  independent record label in Adelaide, Australia. Founded by Tom Majerczak while he was attending University in Melbourne, the label has released notable recordings by Blueline Medic, Owen, Arrows,  This Will Destroy You and others.
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP]  To Be Anywhere But Here – HOB030 (LP, 2014) ; Ceres – I Don't Want To Be Anywhere But Here – HOB030 (CD, 2014) ; Kevin Devine – Bubblegum – HOB031 (LP, 2014) ; Kevin Devine – Bulldozer – HOB032 (LP, 2014) ; Ceres – Selfish Prick – HOB033 (7", 2014) ; This Will Destroy You – Another Language – HOB034 (2xLP, 2014) ; This Will Destroy You – Another Language – HOB034 (CD, 2014) ; Luke Howard – Two & One – HOB035 (LP, 2015) ; Codes in the Clouds - Codes in the Clouds - HOB 053 (LP, 2019) (Arranged by date of release)
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP]  – HOB015 (CD, 2011) ; Braid – Closer To Closed – HOB016 (LP 12", 2011) ; Owen – Ghost Town – HOB017 (LP, 2011) ; Lymbyc Systym – Shutter Release – HOB014 (LP, 2012) ; Eleventh He Reaches London – The Good Fight For Harmony (Remaster) – HOB018 (LP, 2012) ; Arrows / Empire! Empire! (I Was a Lonely Estate) – Split – HOB019 (7", 2012) ; Jamie Hay – King Of The Sun – HOB020 (LP, 2012) ; Jamie Hay – King Of The Sun – HOB020 (CD, 2012) ; Fourteen Nights At Sea– Untitled – HOB021 (CD, 2012) ; Charge Group – Escaping Mankind
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP] Oh Messy Life – 1+1−1=1 – HOB001 (CD, 2006) ; Oh Messy Life – The Literature EP – HOB002 (CD, 2006) ; The City on Film – In Formal Introduction – HOB004 (CD, 2007) ; The Leap Year – With A Little Push A Pattern Appears – HOB005 (CD, 2007) ; Blueline Medic – The Middle Of The End – HOB003 (7", 2008) ; Hey Mercedes – Unorchestrated – HOB006 (LP 12", 2008) ; Arrows / These Hands Could Separate The Sky – Split – HOB007 (CD, 2008) ; Arrows – Modern Art & Politics – HOB008 (CD, 2008) ; Blueline Medic – 42:19 – HOB009 (LP,
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP]  HOB022 (LP, 2013) ; Fourteen Nights At Sea– Great North – HOB023 (LP, 2013) ; Fourteen Nights At Sea– Great North – HOB023 (CD, 2013) ; Eleventh He Reaches London – Hollow Be My Name (Remaster) – HOB024 (2xLP, 2013) ; Owen – L’Ami du Peuple – HOB025 (LP, 2013) ; Eleventh He Reaches London – Bānhūs – HOB026 (LP, 2013) ; Eleventh He Reaches London – Bānhūs – HOB026 (CD, 2013) ; The Leap Year – "The Narrowing" – HOB027 (LP, 2013) ; Ceres – "Luck" – HOB028 (LP 12", 2014) ; Caspian – Waking Season – HOB029 (2LP, 2014) ; Ceres – I Don't
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP] Hobbledehoy Record Co.  Hobbledehoy Record Co. ( ) is an artistic-centric independent record label in Adelaide, Australia. Founded by Tom Majerczak while he was attending University in Melbourne, the label has released notable recordings by Blueline Medic, Owen, Arrows, This Will Destroy You and others.
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP] Another Language (album)  Another Language is the fourth studio album by American post-rock band This Will Destroy You. It was released on September 12, 2014, by Suicide Squeeze Records and Hobbledehoy Record Co. "Another Language" was preceded by the digital release of two singles, "Dustism" and "Invitation".
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP] Empire! Empire! (I Was a Lonely Estate)  Empire! Empire! (I Was a Lonely Estate) was an American Emo band from Michigan. It was formed in 2006 originally as a solo project of band member Keith Latinen. The band's music is most often described as emotional indie rock reminiscent of '90s emo bands such as Mineral and American Football. The band's first release was in 2007 with an EP titled "When The Sea Became A Giant". The band released a full-length album, "What It Takes To Move Forward", in 2009. The band is signed to Count Your Lucky Stars Records and has released albums on a number of other labels, such as strictly no capital letters (UK), Topshelf Records, Stiff Slack (Japan), and Hobbledehoy Record Co (Australia). The band released their second album "You Will Eventually Be Forgotten" on August 19, 2014. On February 16, 2016, the band announced their final tour before their breakup on their official Facebook page.
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP] Arrows (Australian band)  Arrows were an Australian band from Brisbane, Queensland formed in August 2006. The band has released two albums, an EP and two split releases. The line-up consists of Anthony Morgan (guitars, keyboard, vocals), Carl Burnett (bass) Anders Cairns (drums) and Scott Merillo (guitar).  Arrows are on the Hobbledehoy Record Co label, an independent Australian record company that also features Owen, Blueline Medic, This Will Destroy You, Eleventh He Reaches London, Caspian and more.
In what country is Hobbledehoy Record Co.? [SEP]
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP]  Sweat is an Australian drama television series created by John Rapsey and produced by Barron Entertainment in association with the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in Perth. The show aired on Network Ten in 1996 for one season of 26 episodes and centred on students at an Australian school for the athletically gifted. In early 1997, Ten announced that they had no plans for a second season. Scenes were shot in and around Perth including locations such as HBF Stadium, Arena Joondalup, the Town of Cambridge, the now defunct Perry Lakes Stadium and the Perth SpeedDome.
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP]  No Sweat is a broad-based not-for-profit organisation with HQ in London's Kings Cross, England, which fights for the well being and protection of sweatshop labourers, not only in developing countries but also in Britain.
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP] Ireland – RTÉ Two (1996–1997) ; England – CITV (1997, 2001)
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP]  articles in the newspaper on the working conditions in clothing manufacturing and shoe making  industries galvanised church, labour leaders and the public, leading to the establishment of a Royal Commission, on which Waddell reserved. While its majority report denied that "sweating" existed in New Zealand, it did recommend that a comprehensive new Factory Act and other sweeping reforms be implemented. Waddell’s minority report declared that sweating was here. The commission’s recommendations were an important part of the foundation for the social legislation of the 1890s. In 1897 the church underwent extensive renovations, including redecoration of the interior. After an application
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP]  Aaland, as the author of Sweat: The Illustrated History and Description of the Finnish Sauna, Russian Bania, Islamic Hammam, Japanese Mushi-buro, Mexican Temescal, and American Indian & Eskimo Sweat Lodge, is recognized as an authority on sweat bathing. In 2014 Aaland organized the Perfect Sweat Summit in San Francisco, bringing together 50 international experts on sweat bathing. Aaland is currently filming a travel documentary series, Perfect Sweat, which combines his career-long interests in photography, travel, and sweat bathing. The documentary series is an exploration of bathing traditions around the world, and revisits the topic of his 1978 book Sweat.
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP] Sweatshop  A sweatshop or sweat factory is a crowded workplace with very poor, socially unacceptable or illegal working conditions. Some illegal working conditions include poor ventilation, little to no breaks, inadequate work space, insufficient lighting, or uncomfortably/dangerously high or low temperatures. The work may be difficult, tiresome, dangerous, climatically challenging or underpaid. Workers in sweatshops may work long hours with unfair wages, regardless of laws mandating overtime pay or a minimum wage; child labor laws may also be violated. Women make up 85 to 90% of sweatshop workers and may be forced by employers to take birth control and routine pregnancy tests to avoid supporting maternity leave or providing health benefits. The Fair Labor Association's "2006 Annual Public Report" inspected factories for FLA compliance in 18 countries including Bangladesh, El Salvador, Colombia, Guatemala, Malaysia, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, China, India, Vietnam, Honduras, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico, and the US. The U.S. Department of Labor's "2015 Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor" found that "18 countries did not meet the International Labour Organization's recommendation for an adequate number of inspectors."
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP] Montez Sweat  Shaquan Montez Sweat (born September 4, 1996) is an American football defensive end for the Washington Commanders of the National Football League (NFL). He played college football at Michigan State, Copiah–Lincoln Community College, and Mississippi State before being drafted by Washington in the first round of the 2019 NFL Draft. Section::::High school and college career. Sweat attended Stephenson High School in Stone Mountain, Georgia, where he was rated as one of the top defensive ends in the country. Sweat committed to Michigan State to play college football, where he played in two games for them in 2014, recording one sack, before redshirting in 2015. He left Michigan State in 2016 and enrolled at the Copiah–Lincoln Community College in Mississippi, where he also played for their football team. In 2017, he left again to play for the Mississippi State Bulldogs. In his first season at Mississippi State, Sweat registered 10.5 sacks and was named to the 2017 All-SEC football team. He then followed up by recording 12 sacks as a senior in 2018, making the 2018 All-SEC football team and being named an All-American.
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP]
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP] Pocari Sweat  Pocari Sweat is a mild-tasting, relatively light, non-carbonated sweet beverage and is advertised as an "ion supply drink", "refreshment water" (1992), "body request" (1999), and "electrolyte beverage" in Thailand. It has a mild grapefruit flavor with little aftertaste. Ingredients listed are water, sugar, citric acid, trisodium citrate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, calcium lactate, magnesium carbonate, and flavoring. It is sold in aluminium cans, PET bottles, and as a powder for mixing with water. An artificially sweetened version with reduced sugar called is also sold.
In what country is SWEAT? [SEP] Nike sweatshops  Nike, Inc. has been accused of using sweatshops and worker abuse to produce footwear and apparel in East Asia.   After rising prices and the increasing cost of labor in Korean and Taiwanese factories, Nike began contracting in countries elsewhere in Asia. It sub-contracted factories without reviewing the conditions, based on lowest bid. It wasn't until 1991, when a report by Jeff Ballinger was published detailing their insufficient payment of workers and the poor conditions in their Indonesian factories, that these sweatshops came under the media and human rights scrutiny that continues to today.   In 1996, Life magazine ran a reportage on child labor that included a shocking photo of a 12-year-old Pakistani boy sewing a Nike football. Nike has strongly denied the claims in the past, suggesting the company has little control over sub-contracted factories. Beginning in 2002, Nike began auditing its factories for occupational health and safety.  Backlash and its public relations impact forced the company to change methods, improve conditions, and begin implementing social responsibility reports in 2005. Nike has since began initiatives to improve their factory conditions.  Since March 2021, a coalition of over 200 unions and labour rights organizations called upon brands to negotiate directly with unions in the sector on an enforceable agreement on wage assurance, severance, and basic labour rights to fill the pandemic-era wage gap, ensure workers who are terminated receive their full severance, support stronger social protections for all workers, and to ensure basic labour rights are respected. Nike has participated into this right.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]  Dəhnəxəlil (also, Dakhnakhalil and Dekhne-Khalil) is a village and municipality in the Agdash Rayon of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 1,518. The municipality consists of the villages of Dəhnəxəlil and Turyançay.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]  Dədəli (also, Dadaly and Dedeli) is a village in the Fuzuli District of Azerbaijan. The village was occupied by Armenian forces during the First Nagorno-Karabakh War, but was recaptured by Azerbaijan on 17 October 2020.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]  Dəlləkli (also, Dellyakli and Dallakly) is a village and municipality in the Masally Rayon of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 173.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]  Dizaxlı (also, Dizakhly and Dızaxlı) is a village and municipality in the Qabala Rayon of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 525. The municipality consists of the villages of Dizaxlı and Sarıhacallı.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]  Dələli (also, Delali) is a village and municipality in the Jalilabad Rayon of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 374.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP] Dəhnəxəlil  Dəhnəxəlil (also, Dakhnakhalil and Dekhne-Khalil) is a village and municipality in the Agdash Rayon of Azerbaijan. It has a population of 1,518. The municipality consists of the villages of Dəhnəxəlil and Turyançay.
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP]
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP] in the Nakhchivan in the 19th century. The villages of Dəmirçi in the districts of Şuşa, Şamaxı, Kəlbəcər, Fizuli and Şərur of Azerbaijan is related with "Dəmircilər" tribe. Dəmirçi, Nakhchivan Dəmirçi (also Damirchi and Demirchi) is a village and the most populous municipality, except for the capital Şərur, in the Sharur District of Nakhchivan Autonomous Republic, Azerbaijan. It is located in the near of the Nakhchivan-Sadarak highway, 11 km in the north-west from the district center, on the Sharur plain. Its population is busy with grain-growing, vegetable-growing, beet-growing and animal husbandry. There are two secondary schools, cultural house, library, kindergarten,
In what country is Dəhnəxəlil? [SEP] also, Dastak, Դաստակ), was an Armenian-populated village in the Kingdom of Armenia and was administratively a part of the province of Vaspurakan's district of Goght'n. In later centuries, its Armenian population emigrated and settled in nearby settlements, especially Agulis and Shusha. In the early twentieth century, it had a population of about 1,500, most of whom were Muslims. By 1971, its population had risen to 4,500. The remains of two partially destroyed Armenian churches were still preserved at the end of the Soviet period. Dəstə Dəstə (also, Deste, Dasta and Dastamal) is a village and the most populous municipality, after
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]  Khvajeh Soheyl (, also Romanized as Khvājeh Soheyl; also known as Bīd-e Khān, Bīd-e Khvān, Bīd Khān, Bīd Khūn, Bīd Khvān, and Khvājeh Soheyl Bīd Khūn) is a village in Mashiz Rural District, in the Central District of Bardsir County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 221, in 53 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]  Khajeh (also Romanized as Khvājeh; also known as Khājeh, Khwāja, and Khadzha) is a city and capital of Khajeh District, in Heris County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. In 2015 its population was 4,700, in 1391 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]  Soheyl (also known as Soheyl-e Pā’īn) is a village in Bahu Kalat Rural District, Dashtiari District, Chabahar County, Sistan and Baluchestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 162, in 39 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]  Khvajehlar-e Sofla (, also Romanized as Khvājehlar-e Soflá) is a village in Charuymaq-e Jonubesharqi Rural District, Shadian District, Charuymaq County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 48, in 8 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]  Khvajeh Vali-ye Sofla (, also Romanized as Khvājeh Valī-ye Soflá; also known as Khvājeh Valī-ye Pā’īn and Khājeh Valī-e Pā’īn) is a village in Behnamvasat-e Jonubi Rural District, Javadabad District, Varamin County, Tehran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 75, in 20 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP] Khvajeh Soheyl  Khvajeh Soheyl (, also Romanized as Khvājeh Soheyl; also known as Bīd-e Khān, Bīd-e Khvān, Bīd Khān, Bīd Khūn, Bīd Khvān, and Khvājeh Soheyl Bīd Khūn) is a village in Mashiz Rural District, in the Central District of Bardsir County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 221, in 53 families.
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP]
In what country is Khvajeh Soheyl? [SEP] List of cities, towns and villages in Kerman Province  A list of cities, towns and villages in Kerman Province of Iran:
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]  The ZEC Petawaga is a "zone d'exploitation contrôlée" (controlled harvesting zone) located in the area of Mont-Laurier, in Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality, in the Laurentides, in Quebec, in Canada. The zec is managed by the "Association chasse et pêche de la région de Mont-Laurier inc". The zec was created in 1978 and covers an area of 1186 km2.
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]  Zec Petawaga shares its boundaries with the Zec Lesueur in the east, La Verendrye Wildlife Reserve in the west. Its eastern border is the Baskatong Reservoir. The zec is bounded on the north by the free territory extending to Clova. Zec counts 314 lakes, of which a hundred are used for recreational fishing.
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP] Mont-Laurier, municipality ; Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality, (MRC) ; Laurentides, an administrative region of Québec ; Baskatong Reservoir ; Zone d'exploitation contrôlée (Controlled harvesting zone) (ZEC)
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]  Founded in 1952, the "l'association chasse et pêche de la région de Mont-Laurier inc" had originally the mission of seeding fishes. After organizing several sports-related activities and social in the region, the association has established the International Classic boat which attracted more than 15,000 people annually. In 1978, the Quebec government entrusted the association is responsible for administering the ZEC Petawaga.
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]  The ZEC Maganasipi is a "zone d'exploitation contrôlée" (controlled harvesting zone) (ZEC), located in the unorganized territory of Rivière-Kipawa, in the Témiscamingue Regional County Municipality, in the administrative region of Abitibi-Témiscamingue, in Quebec, in Canada and on the lands of the Algonquin Nation. Annually, the outdoor activities on the ZEC are intense from May to October, with camping, mountain biking, hunting, fishing and walking in the forest trails. The mission of the ZEC includes the protection of flora and fauna.
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP] Zec Petawaga  The ZEC Petawaga is a "zone d'exploitation contrôlée" (controlled harvesting zone) located in the area of Mont-Laurier, in Antoine-Labelle Regional County Municipality, in the Laurentides, in Quebec, in Canada.  The zec is managed by the "Association chasse et pêche de la région de Mont-Laurier inc". The zec was created in 1978 and covers an area of .
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP] Zec Louise-Gosford  The ZEC Louise-Gosford is a "zone d'exploitation contrôlée" (controlled harvesting zone) (ZEC), located in two municipalities: Saint-Augustin-de-Woburn for the south part of the zec and Frontenac for the north sector of the zec. The zec is located in Le Granit Regional County Municipality, in Eastern townships, in Quebec, in Canada.  The ZEC was established in 1978 by provincial legislation providing access to public lands in lieu of private clubs. The administration office of the ZEC was given to the "Association Louise-Gosford" which was established on April 3, 1978 and registered as a nonprofit legal entity on March 29, 1995 to the Registrar of companies in Quebec. The purpose of the ZEC is to exploit the territory including through tourist activities while overseeing the activities of hunting and fishing.
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]
In what country is Zec Petawaga? [SEP]
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP]  The people in the district are mainly indigenous citizens of Quechua descent. Quechua is the language which the majority of the population (72.10%) learnt to speak in childhood, 27.10% of the residents started speaking using the Spanish language (2007 Peru Census).
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP]  Tapay District is one of twenty districts of Caylloma Province in Peru.
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP]  The Chila mountain range traverses the district. One of the highest mountains of the district is Suriwiri. Other mountains are listed below: • Apachita • Janq'u Quta • Jichu Qullu • K'ayrawiri • Llimayuq • Minasniyuq • Minaspata • Pariwana • Puka Puka • Q'illa Q'illa • Q'inchu • Sani • Silla Urqu • Sillani • Such'iri • Utt'aña • Wallatani • Wanqhay T'ira • Wayllaqucha Tapay lies north of the Colca valley.
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP]  Taphan Hin is regarded as one of the three districts of Phichit, with a railroad running through (northern line). The district is served by the Taphan Hin railway station of the State Railway of Thailand (SRT).
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP]  Tapairihua District is one of the seventeen districts of the province Aymaraes in Peru.
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP] Tapay District  Tapay District is one of twenty districts of Caylloma Province in Peru.
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP] Choco District  Choco District is one of fourteen districts of the province Castilla in Peru.
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP] Tapay  Tapay can refer to:
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP] Hichocollo (mountain)  Hichocollo (possibly from Aymara "jichu" Peruvian feather grass, "qullu" mountain,<ref name=bertonio/> "ichhu mountain") is a mountain in the Chila mountain range in the Andes of Peru which reaches a height of approximately . It is located in the Arequipa Region, Caylloma Province, Tapay District. Hichocollo lies east of the Molloco River which is a right affluent of Colca River.<ref name=escale/>
In what country is Tapay District? [SEP] Cairahuiri  Cairahuiri (possibly from Aymara and Quechua "k'ayra" frog) is a mountain in the Chila mountain range in the Andes of Peru, about high. It is situated in the Arequipa Region, Caylloma Province, Tapay District. Cairahuiri lies southwest of Minasnioc, northwest of Surihuiri and Minaspata, northeast of Huaillaccocha and west of Huallatane. It stretches along the Cairahuiri River whose waters flow to the Molloco River in the west, a right affluent of the Colca River.<ref name=map/>
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]  Anh traveled the country of Vietnam.
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]  Định Bình Lake (Hồ Định Bình) is a large artificial freshwater lake in Vĩnh Thạnh District, Bình Định Province, Vietnam. Work began creating the dam on Côn River in May 2003. It has a capacity of 226 million cubic metres. The lake and dam are expected to provide irrigation for some 12,545 hectares (over 48 square miles).
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]  Tánh Linh is a rural district of Bình Thuận Province in the Southeast region of Vietnam. As of 2003, the district had a population of 99,679. The district covers an area of 1,174 km². The district capital lies at Lạc Tánh.
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]  in 1999, she released Tóc Ngắn album, which has become her trademark. In 2003, My Linh signed a contract with the American record company, Blue Tiger, to release an English-language album, attracting wide media attention in Vietnam. Coming to America was released in 2004. In 2006, My Linh was one of the judges for Sao Mai Điểm Hẹn, a singing contest hosted by Vietnam Television to discover young music talents. My Linh has performed in many countries, including China, Thailand, Korea, Russia, Germany, Czech Republic, Ukraine, Switzerland, United Kingdom, Cuba, United States, Canada and Australia. In 2006, she is the only Vietnamese artist performing in Asian Divas night in Nagoya, Japan.
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]  The district was formerly known as Ma Linh, Chiêu Linh, Minh Lương and Minh Linh. The first two names were used when the area was part of Champa before the southwards expansion of Vietnam. In 1831, the Nguyễn Dynasty established Quảng Trị Province, and made Vinh Linh the administrative headquarters. The district was split during the Partition of Vietnam In 2004 Cồn Cỏ island was split out of the district to become its own district. The district has locations that are heritage-listed, including some of a national level of importance, such as the Hiền Lương shores, Vịnh Mốc tunnels, Hiền Lương Bridge and Bến Hải River
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP] List of historical capitals of Vietnam  This list of historical capitals of Vietnam includes former capital cities as well as the current capital of Vietnam which is Hanoi in time order. The capitals in bold indicate those of independent periods while the capitals in "italic" indicate those of occupied or invaded periods.  Some secondary unofficial capitals also existed throughout Vietnamese history. These secondary capitals were established by dynasty founders merely as symbolic capitals to pay tribute to their ancestors.
In what country is Cổ Linh? [SEP]
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP]  Mahaboboka is a town and commune (kaominina) in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Sakaraha, which is a part of Atsimo-Andrefana Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,115 in 2018. Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 80% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 10% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are cassava and sweet potatoes. Services provide employment for 8% of the population. Additionally fishing employs 2% of the population.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP]  Mahaboboka lies at the Fiherenana River.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP]  Natural gas has been discovered in Mahaboboka in 2016. Also minerals, as sapphires are found at Mahaboboka.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP]  Mahabo is a city (commune urbaine) in the Menabe Region, Western Madagascar. It has a population of 35,532 in 2018.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP]  Mahabo (Ambohidratrimo)'' is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Ambohidratrimo (district), which is a part of Analamanga Region. It is situated at 48 km nort-west of the capital Antananarivo at the national road 4. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 6,994 in 2018.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP] Mahaboboka  Mahaboboka is a town and commune () in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Sakaraha, which is a part of Atsimo-Andrefana Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,115 in 2018.  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 80% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 10% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are cassava and sweet potatoes. Services provide employment for 8% of the population. Additionally fishing employs 2% of the population.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP] Sakaraha (district)  Sakaraha is a district located in Atsimo-Andrefana Region, south-western Madagascar.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP] Fiherenana River  Fiherenana is a river in the region Atsimo-Andrefana in southern Madagascar. It flows into the Indian Ocean at Tulear.  Due to a local "fady" (taboo), pirogues are not allowed on this river.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP] Ampanihy, Mahabo Ampanihy is a town and commune () in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Mahabo, which is a part of Menabe Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 7,000 in 2001 commune census. Only primary schooling is available. It is also a site of industrial-scale mining. The majority 89% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 10% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are cassava and sweet potatoes. Industry and services provide both employment for 0.5% of the population.
In what country is Mahaboboka? [SEP] Ambondro mahabo Ambondro mahabo is a mammal from the middle Jurassic (about 167 million years ago) of Madagascar. The only species of the genus Ambondro, it is known from a fragmentary lower jaw with three teeth, interpreted as the last premolar and the first two molars. The premolar consists of a central cusp with one or two smaller cusps and a cingulum (shelf) on the inner, or lingual, side of the tooth. The molars also have such a lingual cingulum. They consist of two groups of cusps: a trigonid of three cusps at the front and a talonid with a
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]  Cześniki-Kolonia Górna is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sitno, within Zamość County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]  Opinogóra-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Opinogóra Górna, within Ciechanów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north of Opinogóra Górna, 8 km north-east of Ciechanów, and 80 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]  Czernice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Opinogóra Górna, within Ciechanów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km east of Opinogóra Górna, 8 km north-east of Ciechanów, and 78 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]  Kołaki-Kwasy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Opinogóra Górna, within Ciechanów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north of Opinogóra Górna, 11 km north-east of Ciechanów, and 84 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]  Dzbonie is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Opinogóra Górna, within Ciechanów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north of Opinogóra Górna, 9 km north-east of Ciechanów, and 83 km north of Warsaw.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP] Gmina Sitno  Gmina Sitno is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Zamość County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. Its seat is the village of Sitno, which lies approximately north-east of Zamość and south-east of the regional capital Lublin.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 6,774 (6,855 in 2013).  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Skierbieszów Landscape Park.
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP]
In what country is Cześniki-Kolonia Górna? [SEP] Gmina Łopiennik Górny Gmina Łopiennik Górny is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Krasnystaw County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. Its seat is the village of Łopiennik Górny, which lies approximately north-west of Krasnystaw and south-east of the regional capital Lublin. The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 4,390. Gmina Łopiennik Górny contains the villages and settlements of Borowica, Dobryniów, Dobryniów-Kolonia, Gliniska, Krzywe, Łopiennik Dolny, Łopiennik Dolny-Kolonia, Łopiennik Górny, Łopiennik Nadrzeczny, Łopiennik Podleśny, Majdan Krzywski, Nowiny, Olszanka, Wola Żulińska and Żulin. Gmina Łopiennik Górny is bordered by the gminas of Fajsławice, Gorzków,
In what country is Awe? [SEP]  AWE (A Wealth of Entertainment; formerly Wealth TV) is an American lifestyle and entertainment cable network. Privately held by Herring Networks, Inc., the network operates several domestic and international television feeds while its primary production facilities and corporate headquarters are located in San Diego, California. It is on numerous providers including DirecTV, Verizon FiOS, and AT&T U-Verse.
In what country is Awe? [SEP]   AWE debuted in 2004. It has received regional Emmys for its production efforts. Its in-house production facilities include two studios, 14 HD editing bays, and a master control operations facility with satellite uplink and downlink capabilities. AWE network operates a 24/7 channel domestically as well as an international feed with alternate programming in which it owns the worldwide rights. The network also offers its 24/7 feeds and programs on demand through multiple digital media playing devices. AWE is carried domestically on approximately 150 cable systems and telco video providers. Its international feeds are broadcast throughout the Caribbean and the Middle East.
In what country is Awe? [SEP]  AWE Limited (AWE) is an oil and gas producer with proven resources in Australia, Indonesia and New Zealand. Since May 2018, it has been a wholly owned subsidiary of Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (Japan) and has been delisted from the ASX. Mitsui E&P Australia Pty Ltd and AWE Limited are now sister companies working under the single brand of Mitsui E&P Australia (MEPAU) to reflect the combined businesses. The company's assets currently include the BassGas project in Bass Strait, Tasmania, the Casino gas project in Otway Basin, Victoria, and onshore Perth Basin interests in Western Australia.
In what country is Awe? [SEP]  Awe is a Local Government Area in Nasarawa State, Nigeria. The LGA's headquarters is in Awe Town. Awe has a population of 116,080 (2005 estimates) and total land mass is 2800 km^2 The postal code of the Local Government is 951103, 951104, 951105.
In what country is Awe? [SEP]  The Automobilwerk Eisenach (AWE) was an automobile manufacturer in Eisenach, Germany.
In what country is Awe? [SEP] Shock and awe  Shock and awe (technically known as rapid dominance) is a military strategy based on the use of overwhelming power and spectacular displays of force to paralyze the enemy's perception of the battlefield and destroy their will to fight. Though the concept has a variety of historical precedents, the doctrine was explained by Harlan K. Ullman and James P. Wade in 1996 and was developed specifically for application by the US military by the National Defense University of the United States.<ref name="oxford" /><ref name="oxfordref" />
In what country is Awe? [SEP] Awe, Kentucky  Awe is an unincorporated community in Lewis County, Kentucky, United States. The Awe post office  is closed.
In what country is Awe? [SEP]
In what country is Awe? [SEP] Jaime Awe  Jaime José Awe is a Belizean archaeologist who specializes in the ancient Maya, a Professor of Anthropology at Northern Arizona University, and the Director of the Belize Valley Archaeological Reconnaissance Project.
In what country is Awe? [SEP] Awe, Nigeria  Awe is a Local Government Area in Nasarawa State, Nigeria. The LGA's headquarters is in Awe Town. Awe has a population of 116,080 (2005 estimates) and total land mass is 2800 formula_1  The postal code of the Local Government is 951103, 951104, 951105.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]  Mrákotín is a village in the Pardubice Region of the Czech Republic. It is located 28 km southeast of Pardubice and 112 km east of Prague. The municipality covers an area of 5.15 km2 and as of 2006 it had a population of 362. First written notice about the village is from year 1456. Village Oflenda is administrative part of Mrákotín.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]  Mrákov is a municipality and village in Domažlice District in the Plzeň Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,100 inhabitants. Mrákov lies approximately 5 km south of Domažlice, 50 km south-west of Plzeň, and 131 km south-west of Prague.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]  Manětín (Manetin; older Memeting ) is a town in Plzeň-North District in the Plzeň Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,200 inhabitants. It lies some 30 km to the north from the region capital of Plzeň. The historical town centre and centre of its part Rabštejn nad Střelou are well preserved and both are protected by law as two urban monument zones.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]  Mrokocin (Brucksteine) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kamieniec Ząbkowicki, within Ząbkowice Śląskie County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]  Maletín (Moletein) is a village and municipality (obec) in Šumperk District in the Olomouc Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 18.55 km2, and has a population of 361 (as at 28 August 2006). Maletín lies approximately 23 km south-west of Šumperk, 41 km north-west of Olomouc, and 173 km east of Prague.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP]
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP] Chrudim District  Chrudim District () is a district ("okres") within Pardubice Region of the Czech Republic. Its capital is the town of Chrudim.
In what country is Mrákotín? [SEP] Jihlava District  Jihlava District is one of the five sub-divisions of Kraj Vysočina in the Czech Republic. In 2012 it had a population of 112,000.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP]  Pichlice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sokolniki, within Wieruszów County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km north-east of Sokolniki, 17 km east of Wieruszów, and 91 km south-west of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP]  UK, Germany, Russian Federation, Ukraine, Belarus, Bulgaria, Turkey, Georgia, Armenia, Kirghizstan, Tajikistan, Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Mongolia, Tunisia. In the OSCEPA he was also deputy chairman of the migration committee and member of the counter terrorism committee He graduated in Business at the University of Florence, was a visiting student at The University of Birmingham in 1994/1995 and with a Master of Business Administration from the SDA Bocconi Business school in Milan He was one of the founders of the Forza Italia party in Tuscany in 1993. Since 2016, he has been a member of Lega Nord. Picchi was elected to the City council of Florence from 1995 to 1999, but then moved
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP]  Pihlice (Пихлице) is a village in the municipality of Sokolac, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP]  Pic de Médécourbe (Catalan: Pic de Medacorba) is a mountain in Europe that sits on the western tripoint boundary of Andorra, France and Spain. It is 2914 m tall. It overlooks Étang de Soulcem, a large artificial lake used for hydroelectricity, and the Vicdessos valley. There is also an eastern tripoint of Andorra, France, and Spain approximately 6 km south of Pas de la Casa.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP]  Anne-Sophie Pic was born in Valence, Drôme, in France on 12 July 1969. She is the daughter of chef Jacques Pic, and grew up at her family's restaurant, Maison Pic. Her grandfather, Andre Pic, was also a chef, who was particularly known for a crayfish gratin dish, and who first gained the restaurant three Michelin stars in 1934. She initially decided not to follow in their footsteps, and instead travelled overseas to train in management. She worked in Japan and the United States as an intern for various companies, including Cartier and Moët & Chandon, but found herself drawn back to the restaurant for her "passion". In 1992, at the age of 23, she returned to Maison Pic to train under
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP] Pichlice  Pichlice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sokolniki, within Wieruszów County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Sokolniki, east of Wieruszów, and south-west of the regional capital Łódź.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP] Gmina Sokolniki  Gmina Sokolniki is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Wieruszów County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. Its seat is the village of Sokolniki, which lies approximately east of Wieruszów and south-west of the regional capital Łódź.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006, its total population was 4,875.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP] Záběhlice Záběhlice is a cadastral area of Prague, Czech Republic, lying in both the Prague 10 and Prague 4 administrative districts. There are 3,255 households in Záběhlice comprising 32,034 persons, of whom 17,111 are female, 14,923 are male and 3,134 are under fifteen years of age (1,531 being girls and 1,603 boys). It lies in three post codes: 102 00, 106 00 and 141 00. The first mention of Záběhlice dates to the 1088 foundation charter of the Vyšehrad Canonry. Though the surviving document itself is a forged copy from the 12th century, the mention is considered authentic. By the
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP] parliament, Picchi was a member of the foreign affairs committee. In 2008 he was re-elected in the same constituency with 13,239 preference votes for the People of Freedom party and, from June 2008, was a member of the Italian Parliamentary delegation to the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE). Picchi successfully defended his seat for the third consecutive time at the Italian General Elections on 24th of February 2013. He increased his personal preferences to 20650. A personal success compared to that of his party. Guglielmo Picchi Guglielmo Picchi (born April 26, 1973 ) is an Italian politician.
In what country is Pichlice? [SEP] between the firm's offices in Montreal, Toronto, and London. He is a board member of Twitter, the Trudeau Foundation, and is also on the advisory board of startups including Lightspeed POS, Boosted Boards, Zoona, OkHi, and Arctoris. In June 2015, he received the National Order of Québec. Pichette now lives in London, and is married to Tamar Pichette. He is involved in a conservation and research project with Nature Conservancy Canada in protecting Kenauk - a 65,000 acre territory between Montreal and Ottawa. http://kenauk.com and http://institutkenauk.org. Patrick Pichette Patrick Pichette is a Canadian businessperson. He was senior vice president and
In what country is pero? [SEP] Austria (AUVA) ; Denmark (NFA) ; Finland (FIOH) ; France (INRS) ; Germany (BAuA and IFA) ; Italy (INAIL) ; Norway (STAMI) ; Poland (CIOP-PIB) ; Spain (INSST) ; Switzerland (Unisanté) ; United Kingdom (HSE) ; The Netherlands (TNO) ; Since 2020 : Sweden (Swedish Agency for Work Environment Expertise –SAWEE in English and Mynak in Swedish)
In what country is pero? [SEP]  Pero is a station on Line 1 of Milan Metro. The station is located on Via Olona, which is in Pero, Italy. It was opened on 19 December 2005 on the section between Molino Dorino and Rho Fiera which was already in operation. It's an underground station.
In what country is pero? [SEP] 🇮🇹 Fuscaldo, Italy Pero is twinned with:
In what country is pero? [SEP]  Pero (Milanese: Per ) is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Milan in the Italian region Lombardy, located about 9 km northwest of Milan. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 10,378 and an area of 5.0 km2. The municipality of Pero contains the frazioni (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Cerchiate and Cerchiarello. Pero borders the following municipalities: Rho, Milan. Pero is linked to Milan and Rho by the underground line M1 (a.k.a. "red line").
In what country is pero? [SEP]  Pero is a genus of moths in the family Geometridae erected by Gottlieb August Wilhelm Herrich-Schäffer in 1855.
In what country is pero? [SEP]
In what country is pero? [SEP]
In what country is pero? [SEP] Pero, Lombardy  Pero (Milanese: ) is a "comune" (municipality) in the Province of Milan in the Italian region Lombardy, located about northwest of Milan. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 10,378 and an area of .  The municipality of Pero contains the "frazioni" (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Cerchiate and Cerchiarello.  Pero borders the following municipalities: Rho, Milan.  Pero is linked to Milan and Rho by the underground line M1 (a.k.a. "red line").
In what country is pero? [SEP] Pero-Casevecchie  Pero-Casevecchie () is a commune in the Haute-Corse department of France on the island of Corsica.
In what country is pero? [SEP]
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]  Khafr County is a county in Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 42,199, in 10,550 families. The county has two cities: Khavaran and Bab Anar. The county has five rural districts (dehestan): Aliabad Rural District, Gel Berenji Rural District, Khafr Rural District, Rahgan Rural District, and Sefidar Rural District. The Khafr County was established on 2019 in Fars province.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]  Khafr Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Khafr District, Jahrom County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 8,359, in 2,136 families. The rural district has 7 villages.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]  Khafr (also known as Khafār) is a village in Padena-ye Vosta Rural District, Padena District, Semirom County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,396, in 406 families.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]  Khafr is a village in Karkas Rural District, in the Central District of Natanz County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 185, in 92 families.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]  Jahrom County is a county in Fars Province in Iran. The capital of the county is Jahrom. At the 2006 census, the county's population was 197,331, in 48,335 families. The county is subdivided into four districts: the Central District, Khafr District, Simakan District, and Kordian District. The county has five cities: Jahrom, Bab Anar, Khavaran, Duzeh, and Qotbabad.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP] Khafr County  Khafr County () is located in Fars province, Iran. The capital of the county is Bab Anar. At the 2006 census, the county's population as a part of Jahrom County was 42,199, in 10,550 households. The following census in 2011 counted 40,535 people, in 11,860 households. At the 2016 census, the county's population as a district of Jahrom County was 42,263, in 13,590 households. It was separated from Jahrom County in 2019.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP] Jahrom County  Jahrom County () is located in Fars province, Iran. The capital of the county is Jahrom. At the 2006 census, the county's population (including those portions of the county later split off to form Khafr County) was 197,331, in 48,335 households. The following census in 2011 counted 209,312 people, in 58,940 households. At the 2016 census, the county's population was 228,532, in 70,187 households.
In what country is Khafr County? [SEP]
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP]  The Institut de France (Institute of France) is a French learned society, grouping five académies, including the Académie Française. It was established in 1795 at the direction of the National Convention. Located on the Quai de Conti in the 6th arrondissement of Paris, the Institute manages approximately 1,000 foundations, as well as museums and châteaux open for visit. It also awards prizes and subsidies, which amounted to a total of over €27 million per year in 2017. Most of these prizes are awarded by the Institute on the recommendation of the académies.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] France, Germany and United Kingdom Spain, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, Czech Republic, Sweden, Belgium, Slovakia, Poland, Denmark and Slovenia. The ILL is governed by its Associates, the founding countries: in association with its Scientific Member countries (listed below by chronological order of accession):
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP]  The Institut des Amériques (IdA) is a public research institute in Paris, France. It is concerned with research dealing with Europe, Latin America and North America.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP]  Institut National de Recherches en Sante Publique is a national research institute in Nouakchott, Mauritania. It is located on the Avenue Gamal Abdel Nasser, opposite the Grand National Hospital of Mauritania and just east of the Ministry of Energy headquarters.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP]  The Institute of Higher International Studies (Institut des hautes études internationales, commonly referred to as "IHEI") is a public institution of research and higher education in Paris, France. It was founded in 1921 by Paul Fauchille and Albert de Lapradelle. It is now affiliated to Panthéon-Assas University.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] Massachusetts Institute of Technology  The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) is a private land-grant research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Established in 1861, MIT has played a key role in the development of modern technology and science, and is one of the most prestigious and highly ranked academic institutions in the world.  Founded in response to the increasing industrialization of the United States, MIT adopted a European polytechnic university model and stressed laboratory instruction in applied science and engineering. MIT is one of three private land grant universities in the United States, the others being Cornell University and Tuskegee University. The institute has an urban campus that extends more than a mile (1.6 km) alongside the Charles River, and encompasses a number of major off-campus facilities such as the MIT Lincoln Laboratory, the Bates Center, and the Haystack Observatory, as well as affiliated laboratories such as the Broad and Whitehead Institutes.  , 98 Nobel laureates, 26 Turing Award winners, and 8 Fields Medalists have been affiliated with MIT as alumni, faculty members, or researchers. In addition, 58 National Medal of Science recipients, 29 National Medals of Technology and Innovation recipients, 50 MacArthur Fellows, 83 Marshall Scholars, 41 astronauts, 16 Chief Scientists of the US Air Force, and numerous heads of states have been affiliated with MIT. The institute also has a strong entrepreneurial culture and MIT alumni have founded or co-founded many notable companies. MIT is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU) and has received more Sloan Research Fellowships and Hertz Fellowships than any other university.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] Women's Institute  The Women's Institute (WI) is a community-based organisation for women in the United Kingdom, Canada, South Africa and New Zealand. The movement was founded in Stoney Creek, Ontario, Canada, by Erland and Janet Lee with Adelaide Hoodless being the first speaker in 1897. It was based on the British concept of Women's Guilds, created by Rev Archibald Charteris in 1887 and originally confined to the Church of Scotland. From Canada the organisation spread back to the motherland, throughout the British Empire and Commonwealth, and thence to other countries. Many WIs belong to the Associated Country Women of the World organization.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] Confucius Institute  Confucius Institutes (CI; ) are public educational and cultural promotion programs funded and arranged currently by the , a government-organized non-governmental organization (GONGO) under the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China. The Confucius Institute program was formerly under Hanban, an organization affiliated with the Chinese government. The stated aim of the program is to promote Chinese language and culture, support local Chinese teaching internationally, and facilitate cultural exchanges.  The Confucius Institute program began in 2004 and was supported by the Chinese Ministry of Education-affiliated Hanban (officially the Office of Chinese Language Council International, which changed its name to Center for Language Education and Cooperation in 2020), overseen by individual universities.  Officials from China have compared Confucius Institutes to language and culture promotion organizations such as Portugal's Instituto Camões, Britain's British Council, France's Alliance Française, Italy's Società Dante Alighieri, Spain's Instituto Cervantes and Germany's Goethe-Institut—several of them named for an iconic cultural figure identified with that country, as Confucius is identified with China. Some commentators argue, unlike these organizations, many Confucius Institutes operate directly on university campuses, thus giving rise to what they see as unique concerns related to academic freedom and political influence.  Confucius Institutes are used as a form of "soft power" by the Chinese government in which it spends approximately $10 billion a year on CIs and related programs to exercise these initiatives. Chinese Communist Party (CCP) general secretary Xi Jinping in 2013 stated that the intentions are to "give a good Chinese narrative". Being affiliated with the Chinese Ministry of Education, CIs have received increasing skepticism over its censorship of content taught, such as topics related to individual freedoms and democracy, Taiwan, Tibet and Xinjiang.  There have been a number of reports pointing to controversial incidents in the past, including a former senior CCP official, Li Changchun's comment that Confucius Institutes are "an important part of China's overseas propaganda set-up". In July 2020, Hanban announced its renaming to the Center for Language Education and Cooperation, stating that The Confucius Institute was handed over to , a self-described "non-governmental private organization". This designation has been protested by the Center in an open letter to former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and former Secretary of Education Betsy DeVos.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] Pasteur Institute  The Pasteur Institute () is a French non-profit private foundation dedicated to the study of biology, micro-organisms, diseases, and vaccines. It is named after Louis Pasteur, who invented pasteurization and vaccines for anthrax and rabies. The institute was founded on 4 June 1887, and inaugurated on 14 November 1888.  For over a century, the Institut Pasteur has researched infectious diseases. This worldwide biomedical research organization based in Paris was the first to isolate HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, in 1983. Over the years, it has been responsible for discoveries that have enabled medical science to control diseases such as diphtheria, tetanus, tuberculosis, poliomyelitis, influenza, yellow fever, and plague.  Since 1908, ten Institut Pasteur scientists have been awarded the Nobel Prize for medicine and physiology—the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine was shared between two Pasteur scientists.
In what country is İnstitut? [SEP] Institut Le Rosey  Institut Le Rosey (), commonly referred to as Le Rosey or simply Rosey, is a private boarding school in Rolle, Switzerland. Founded in 1880 by Paul-Émile Carnal on the site of the 14th-century Château du Rosey in the town of Rolle in the canton of Vaud, it is among the oldest boarding schools in Switzerland and one of the most prestigious and expensive schools in the world, for which it is known as the "School of Kings".  The school also owns a campus in the ski resort village of Gstaad in the canton of Bern, to where the student body, faculty, and staff move during the months of January through March. In 2015, Christophe Gudin, the son of the fourth director of Le Rosey Philippe Gudin, became the fifth one. Kim Kovacevic is the headmaster.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP]  John Arouna Karimu is a Mende hailed from Daru Village, Kailahun District, in the Eastern Region of Sierra Leone. He was a Lecturer at Fourah Bay College, where he met his wife Gertrude Gbessay Karimu née Sellu who was a student there as well. He later worked for the Bo/Pujehun Project. He then became the Director of CUSO in Gambia. He later became the Finance Minister in Sierra Leone during the military rule of Valentine Strasser (1993-1996). He was the presidential candidate of the National Unity Party in the 1996 national elections. In that election, Karimu received 5.3% of the national vote and lost easily to Ahmed Tejan Kabbah. In December 1996, Karimu accepted a position in the cabinet of Kabbah as the Secretary of Housing and Environment. However, Karimu was eventually deposed, along with the rest of the government, when Major Johnny Paul Koroma overthrew the government on 25 May 1997. During this period, he worked as a Director with The World Bank in Papua New Guinea. He later became the Commissioner of the National Revenue Authority(NRA)-The highest paid civil Servant in Sierra Leone.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP]  Inam Karimov was born in Baku on June 6, 1977. He studied at Humanitarian Subjects gymnasium between 1984 – 1994 years. He continued his education at Richmond High School in Indiana State of the USA between 1994 – 1995 years. He entered the International Law faculty of the Baku State University. Inam Karimov achieved bachelor's degree at Strasbourg University in Law in 1998–2000 years, and master's degree in Law in Sorbonne (Paris) University in 2000–2002 years. He worked as consultant in 2002 – 2004 years and as a head consultant in 2004 - 2012 at the Administration of the President of the Republic of Azerbaijan. He was Secretary of Commission on Combating Corruption of the Republic of Azerbaijan during 2005-2012.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP]  Karimunjawa Islands or Karimunjava Islands (Kepulauan Karimunjawa) is an archipelago of 27 islands in the Java Sea, Indonesia, approximately 80 kilometres northwest of Jepara. They have a total land area of 71.2 km2. The main island is known as Karimun (2,700 ha), while the second-largest island is Kemujan (1,400 ha). In 2019, the population of the island group was about 9,784 who lived on five of the islands. The population is largely Javanese, with pockets of Bugis and Madurese inhabitants. Javanese culture is dominant in the islands which are the only islands off Java where Javanese is the lingua franca. Twenty-two of the islands have been declared 2001 as a marine reserve, the Karimunjawa National Park. Five more islands are either privately owned or are under the control of the Indonesian Navy. The archipelago is served by Dewadaru Airport which provides scheduled airline services to Semarang and Surabaya.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP]  international Soufisme, Culture et Musique ‘‘les Routes de la Foi’’, founded by UNESCO in Algeria from 2005. He is a Member of the UNESCO Memory of the World Register Sub-Committee from 2014 (located in UNESCO Headquarters, Paris, France). Karimov is formally affiliated with the Institute of History, Academy of Sciences of Uzbekistan, but is effectively an independent scholar, living most of the time in the United Arab Emirates. He is a Professor of the Middle East and Central Asia at the Hofstra University (United States) since 2017. Elyor Karimov is an expert in the History of Civilization and Culture in Central Asia
In what country is Karimu? [SEP]  The Karimun Regency is located in the Riau Islands Province, Indonesia. Besides the central island of Great Karimun, the regency also includes the islands of Kundur and over 240 smaller islands. The district covers a land area of 1,524 km2 and a sea area of 6,460 km2, and its population was 212,561 at the 2010 Census and 253,457 at the 2020 Census.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP] Karimu  Karimu (, also Romanized as Karīmū) is a village in Masabi Rural District, in the Central District of Sarayan County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 801, in 287 families.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP] Kenema  Kenema is the third largest city in Sierra Leone (after Freetown and Bo), and the largest city in the country's Eastern Province. It is the capital of Kenema District and a major economic center of the Eastern Province. At the 2015 national census, Kenema had a population of 200,354. Kenema is located approximately 200 miles from Freetown, and south of Bo.  Kenema is one of Sierra Leone's most ethnically diverse cities. Like most parts of Sierra Leone, the Krio language of the Sierra Leone Creole people is by far the most widely spoken language in Kenema.  Kenema is governed by a directly elected city council, headed by a mayor in whom executive authority is vested, and who is responsible for the city's general management. The mayor and council members are elected every four years. Kenema's current mayor is Thomas Karimu Baio of the Sierra Leone People's Party. Karimu Baio was elected mayor with 79.4% of the vote in the 2018 Kenema Mayoral election . Kenema is an overwhelming political stronghold of the Sierra Leone People's Party, the current national ruling party in Sierra Leone.  As in the rest of Sierra Leone, football is by far the city's most popular sport. The Kamboi Eagles, a professional football club based in Kenema, represents the city in the Sierra Leone National Premier League.  Kenema is known as the hometown of some of Sierra Leone's greatest international soccer stars, including the country's most widely known athlete, retired soccer star Mohamed Kallon. Other notable Sierra Leonean international footballers from Kenema include the country's current top striker, Kei Kamara, and retired soccer stars Paul Kpaka, Kemokai Kallon and Musa Kallon.  Kenema's growth was originally promoted by the logging and carpentry industries, which were linked to the city by the now-closed railway. Since then, its economy has benefited from the diamond mines first discovered in the area in 1931.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP] Karim Adeyemi  Karim-David Adeyemi (born 18 January 2002) is a German professional footballer who plays as a forward for Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund and the Germany national team.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP] Abuja  Abuja () is the capital and eighth most populous city of Nigeria. Situated at the centre of the country within the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), it is a planned city built mainly in the 1980s based on a master plan by International Planning Associates (IPA), a consortium of three American planning and architecture firms made up of Wallace, Roberts, McHarg & Todd (WRMT – a group of architects) as the lead, Archisystems International (a subsidiary of the Howard Hughes Corporation), and Planning Research Corporation. The Central Business District of Abuja was designed by Japanese architect Kenzo Tange. It replaced Lagos, the country's most populous city, as the capital on 12 December 1991.  Abuja's geography is defined by Aso Rock, a monolith left by water erosion. The Presidential Complex, National Assembly, Supreme Court and much of the city extend to the south of the rock. Zuma Rock, a monolith, lies just north of the city on the expressway to Kaduna.  At the 2006 census, the city of Abuja had a population of 776,298 making it one of the ten most populous cities in Nigeria (placing eighth as of 2006). According to the United Nations, Abuja grew by 139.7% between 2000 and 2010, making it the fastest growing city in the world.<ref name="euromonitor2010"/> , the city is experiencing an annual growth of at least 35%, retaining its position as the fastest-growing city on the African continent and one of the fastest-growing in the world. As of 2016, the metropolitan area of Abuja is estimated at six million persons, placing it behind only Lagos as the most populous metro area in Nigeria.  Major religious sites include the Nigerian National Mosque and the Nigerian National Christian Centre. The city is served by the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport. Abuja is known for being one of the few purpose-built capital cities in Africa, as well as being one of the wealthiest.<ref name="bbc"/>  Abuja is Nigeria's administrative and political capital. It is also a key capital on the African continent due to Nigeria's geo-political influence in regional affairs. Abuja is also a conference centre and hosts various meetings annually, such as the 2003 Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting and the 2014 World Economic Forum (Africa) meetings. Abuja joined the UNESCO Global Network of Learning Cities in 2016.
In what country is Karimu? [SEP] Karim Ahmad Khan  Karim Asad Ahmad Khan KC (born 30 March 1970) is a British lawyer and specialist in international criminal law and international human rights law who has served as Prosecutor of the International Criminal Court since 2021.  Following his appointment by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, he was, until 2021, an Assistant Secretary-General of the United Nations and served as the Special Adviser and Head of the UN Investigative Team for the Promotion of Accountability for Crimes Committed by Da'esh/ISIL in Iraq (UNITAD), which was established pursuant to Security Council Resolution 2379 (2017) to support domestic efforts to hold the Islamic State accountable for acts that may amount to war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity in Iraq.  On 12 February 2021, Khan was elected the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court (ICC).
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]  Graitschen bei Bürgel is a municipality in the district Saale-Holzland, in Thuringia, Germany.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]  The Burg Grenchen, also known as Bettleschloss, was a hill castle located above the present-day municipalities of Grenchen and Bettlach in the Canton of Solothurn, Switzerland. It is one of the early clearing castles in the Jura Mountains in Switzerland.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]  Grgelj (Beim Gergel, Beim Görgel ) is a dispersed settlement that stretches along the left bank of the Kolpa River in the Municipality of Kostel in southern Slovenia. The area is part of the traditional region of Lower Carniola and is now included in the Southeast Slovenia Statistical Region.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]  Within the German Empire (1871-1918), Bürgel was part of the Grand Duchy of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]  Bürgel is a town in the Saale-Holzland district, in Thuringia, Germany. It is situated 12 km east of Jena. It contains the Benedictine monastery of Bürgel Abbey.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP] Saale-Holzland-Kreis  Saale-Holzland (official German name: Saale-Holzland-Kreis) is a "Kreis" (district) in the east of Thuringia, Germany. Neighboring districts are (from the north clockwise) the district Burgenlandkreis in Saxony-Anhalt, the district-free city Gera, the districts Greiz, Saale-Orla, Saalfeld-Rudolstadt, Weimarer Land and the district-free city Jena.
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]
In what country is Graitschen bei Bürgel? [SEP]
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]  Durrenentzen (Dürrenentzen) is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in Grand Est in north-eastern France.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP] 🇭🇺 Szentbékkálla, Hungary – since 2001 Dürnten is twinned with:
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]  Dürrenberg (656.4 m above sea level) is a mountain of Bavaria. It is the highest point of the Weißenburg-Gunzenhausen district and of the Hahnenkamm and is situated between Heidenheim and Meinheim 60 km south west of Nuremberg, Germany.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]  village, from the Austrians. Until 1614 the village was part of the Kulm parish and since then it has belonged to the Leutwil parish. Particularly tragic events were the big fire in the village in 1782 and in 1963, the crash of Swissair Flight 306 on the outskirts of Dürrenäsch (killing all 80 on board). In addition to the still common agriculture industry, several other industries developed in the 18th-19th Centuries. Initially, cotton weaving and straw plaiting developed in the village. Then, between 1852-1935 the silk industry developed and between 1863 and 1950 the cigar industry was in the village. The Korkwarenfabrik (cork products factory) opened in 1878. Between 1952-54 it was rebuilt and went into production of new types of insulation and plastics as the Sagex factory.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]  The farmhouse im Feld at Feld 93, the Gärbihof, the Gasthof Bären and the Gasthof Kreuz are listed as Swiss heritage site of national significance. The entire village of Dürrenroth is part of the Inventory of Swiss Heritage Sites.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP] Durrenentzen  Durrenentzen (; ) is a commune in the Haut-Rhin department in Grand Est in north-eastern France.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP] Arrondissement of Colmar  The arrondissement of Colmar is a former arrondissement of France in the Haut-Rhin department in the Alsace region. In 2015 it was merged into the new arrondissement of Colmar-Ribeauvillé. It had 62 communes, and its population was 148,444 (2012).
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP] Breisach  Breisach (formerly Altbreisach; Low Alemannic: "Alt-Brisach") is a town with approximately 16,500 inhabitants, situated along the Rhine in the Rhine Valley, in the district Breisgau-Hochschwarzwald, Baden-Württemberg, Germany, about halfway between Freiburg and Colmar — 20 kilometres away from each — and about 60 kilometres north of Basel near the Kaiserstuhl. A bridge leads over the Rhine to Neuf-Brisach, Alsace.  Its name is Celtic and means breakwater. The root "Breis" can also be found in the French word "briser" meaning to break. The hill, on which Breisach came into existence was — at least when there was a flood — in the middle of the Rhine, until the Rhine was straightened by the engineer Johann Gottfried Tulla in the 19th century, thus breaking its surge.
In what country is Durrenentzen? [SEP]
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]  Joykar is a village in Badghis Province in north western Afghanistan.
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP] Khunjai Thailand
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]  Jitul Sonowal (জিতুল সোণোৱাল; born in Dibrugarh Assam) is a singer, music director, composer, lyricist and entertainer in the field of Assamese modern song and music since 1988. He filtered the Assamese song in a modern way and he likewise works in Assamese Films and Movies; and Film Divisions of Assam. Some of the popular hits songs he contributed in Assamese music industry like "Jodi ketiyaba", "Abeli porot", "Bukure Axabure", "Dure Dure", "Ai beli Bihure", "Jon Jole Tora Jole", "Ketiyaba Ajanite", "Mur Mon Aji", "Moromi Logori", "Najaba Atori", "Rimjhim Boroxar" etc. He directed several music in assamese movies such as Hepaah, Xonghat and Bukur Majot Jwole etc. His Popular albums are Niribili Godhuli, Bristi, Natun Lahar, Sonali etc. Most of the Music Albums of Jitul Sonowal co-starred with renowned singers like Usha Mangeshkar, Anuradha Paudwal, Kavita Krishnamurti, Dr. Sangita Kakati, Udit Narayan, Kumar Sanu, and Zubeen Garg, etc. Jitul Sonowal decided to join politics in 2014 he has joined the BJP along with several Assamese artists. Jitul Sonowal is also the Director of North East Zone Cultural Centre (NEZCC).
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]  and Pashtun community and was established in 1970 by Lao Muslims. Maulvi Qamruddin was a notable Tamil imam at the mosque and the mosque has also had a Bangladeshi imam. There is another mosque known as the Azahar Mosque not too far from there which was established by the Cham community in 1986, and became popularly known as Masjid Cambodia (due to their origin). It also hosts a maktab. A Muslim prayer room can also be found in the Wattay International Airport, the country's main international gateway and also located in the capital. In the Luang Prabang Province, there is a mosque, cemetery as well as an Indian halal restaurant called Nisha. Some Laotian Muslims have gone off to study at the International Islamic University Malaysia.
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]  Dr. Syamaprasad Jana Jagaran Manch is a forum of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) dissidents in the Indian state of West Bengal. The forum was launched on 5 December 2004 by former Union Minister Tapan Sikdar. The organisation held its first convention in Kolkata on 8 March 2006. The forum is named after Syama Prasad Mookerjee, the founder of Bharatiya Jana Sangh. Sikdar maintains that the organisation is apolitical (in the sense that it is not a political party), and that he still sympathises with BJP. The group campaigns against Bangladeshi immigration to West Bengal.
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP] Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar  Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar (, also Romanized as Chāl Sīāh Manchātūn Jowkār) is a village in Margown Rural District, Margown District, Boyer-Ahmad County, Kohgiluyeh and Boyer-Ahmad Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 46, in 9 families.
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP] Chal-e Siyah  Chal-e Siyah or Chal Siah () may refer to:
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]
In what country is Chal Siah Manchatun Jowkar? [SEP]
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]  The U.S. Post Office and Courthouse–Billings, in Billings, Montana, was built in 1914. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986. It includes Late 19th and 20th Century Revivals architecture and Second Renaissance Revival architecture. Also known as Billings Post Office and Courthouse and as Billings Downtown Station, it served historically as a courthouse of the United States District Court for the District of Montana, and as a post office. The courthouse functions have since been relocated to the James F. Battin U.S. Courthouse. The building's construction was touted as a great thing for Billings, and its opening was a matter of great pride for the city. The building was expanded and renovated in 1932.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]  The Mike Mansfield Federal Building and United States Courthouse is a courthouse of the United States District Court for the District of Montana, located in Butte, Montana. Completed in 1904, the building was expanded from 1932 to 1933. It was listed in the National Register of Historic Places in 1979 as U. S. Post Office. It has also been known as Federal Building and U.S. Court House. It is a contributing building in the NRHP-listed Butte Historic District. The building was renamed in 2002 to honor Michael Joseph Mansfield (1903–2001), a U.S. representative and senator.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]  The United States Post Office and Courthouse, commonly called the Knoxville Post Office, is a state building located at 501 Main Street in Knoxville, Tennessee, United States. Constructed in 1934 for use as a post office and federal courthouse, the building contains numerous Art Deco and Moderne elements, and is clad in Tennessee marble. While the building is still used as a branch post office, the court section is now used by the state courts. The building is listed on the National Register of Historic Places for its architecture and political significance.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]  The Federal Building, U.S. Post Office and Courthouse is located on a block bounded by Broadway, Pine, and Pattee streets, near the central business area. The original architect, James Knox Taylor, designed the building in the Italian Renaissance Revival style of architecture, which was commonly used for federal building design throughout the country. Its classically inspired design conveyed the dignity of the federal government. The building is three stories in height and utilizes a steel-frame and reinforced-concrete structural system. Despite the additions of the annexes, the building presents a cohesive appearance because both additions were designed to be compatible with the original building. The foundation is clad
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]  The U.S. Post Office and Courthouse in Lander, Wyoming was built in 1907 as part of a facilities improvement program by the United States Post Office Department. The post office in Lander was nominated to the National Register of Historic Places as part of a thematic study comprising twelve Wyoming post offices built to standardized USPO plans in the early twentieth century. Lander's post office is unique among the group because it incorporates court facilities. The building is now used as offices for a rehabilitation and disabilities advocacy group.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP] United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings  The U.S. Post Office and Courthouse–Billings, in Billings, Montana, was built in 1914. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986.  It includes Late 19th and 20th Century Revivals architecture and Second Renaissance Revival architecture. Also known as Billings Post Office and Courthouse and as Billings Downtown Station, it served historically as a courthouse of the United States District Court for the District of Montana, and as a post office.<ref name=nris/> The courthouse functions have since been relocated to the James F. Battin U.S. Courthouse.  The building's construction was touted as a great thing for Billings, and its opening was a matter of great pride for the city. The building was expanded and renovated in 1932.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP] List of United States federal courthouses in Montana  This is a list of current and former courthouses of the United States federal court system located in Montana. Each entry indicates the name of the building along with an image, if available, its location and the jurisdiction it covers, the dates during which it was used for each such jurisdiction, and, if applicable the person for whom it was named, and the date of renaming. Dates of use will not necessarily correspond with the dates of construction or demolition of a building, as pre-existing structures may be adapted or court use, and former court buildings may later be put to other uses. Also, the official name of the building may be changed at some point after its use as a federal court building has been initiated.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP] List of United States post office murals  This is a list of United States post office murals, produced in the United States from 1934 to 1943 through commissions from the Procurement Division of the United States Department of the Treasury. The principal objective of the United States post office murals was to secure artwork that met high artistic standards Murals produced through the Treasury Department's Section of Painting and Sculpture (1934–1943) were funded as a part of the cost of the construction of new post offices, with 1% of the cost set aside for artistic enhancements. Almost 850 artists were commissioned to paint 1371 murals, most of which were installed in post offices; 162 of the artists were women and three were African American. TRAP was established with funds from the Works Progress Administration. The Section supervised the creative output of TRAP, and selected a master artist for each project. Assistants were then chosen by the artist from the rolls of the WPA Federal Art Project.  Artists were asked to paint in an "American scene" style, depicting ordinary citizens in a realistic manner. Abstract and modern art styles were discouraged. Artists were also encouraged to produce works that would be appropriate to the communities where they were to be located and to avoid controversial subjects.<ref name="penn"/> Projects were closely scrutinized by the Section for style and content, and artists were paid only after each stage in the creative process was approved.<ref name="O'Connor"/>  The Section and the Treasury Relief Art Project were overseen by Edward Bruce, who had directed the Public Works of Art Project (1933–1934). They were commission-driven public work programs that employed artists to beautify American government buildings, strictly on the basis of quality.  The murals are the subject of efforts by the United States Postal Service to preserve and protect them. This is particularly important and problematical as some of them have disappeared or deteriorated. Some are ensconced in buildings that are worth far less than the artwork.
In what country is United States Post Office and Courthouse–Billings? [SEP]
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP]  Sofla Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Zavareh District, Ardestan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 784, in 330 families. The rural district has 22 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP]  Fishvar Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Central District, Evaz County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population (including Fishvar, which was subsequently detached from the rural district and promoted to city status) was 5,920, in 1,046 families; excluding Fishvar, the population (as of 2006) was 719, in 126 families. The rural district has 6 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP]  Sofla Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Kharameh County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,618, in 1,611 families. The rural district has 17 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP]  Kavar Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Kavar County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 23,118, in 4,982 families. The rural district has 19 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP]  Qasabeh-ye Gharbi Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Sabzevar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 8,701, in 2,589 families. The rural district has 24 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP] Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District  Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Rahimabad District, Rudsar County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,842, in 1,448 families. The rural district has 46 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP] Abdu Chal  Abdu Chal (, also Romanized as Ābdū Chāl; also known as Ābdārbū Chāl) is a village in Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District, Rahimabad District, Rudsar County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 27, in 8 families.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP] Razeh Gardan  Razeh Gardan (; also known as Razgardan and Razkardan) is a village in Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District, Rahimabad District, Rudsar County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 110, in 28 families.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP] Eshkevar Rural District  Eshkevar Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Ramsar County, Mazandaran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,600, in 428 families. The rural district has 11 villages.
In what country is Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District? [SEP] Chamtu Kesh  Chamtu Kesh (, also Romanized as Chamtū Kesh) is a village in Eshkevar-e Sofla Rural District, Rahimabad District, Rudsar County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 15, in 4 families.
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP]  Poland, USSR and Yemen
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP]  This Azerbaijani variant is prepared in Tabriz, Iran. "Riştə Xətayi", and is typically cooked in Ramadan in the world's biggest covered Bazaar of Tabriz. It is made with chopped walnuts, cinnamon, ginger, powder of rose, sugar, rose water and olive oil.
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP]  Arzuiyeh (, also romanized as Arzū’īyeh, Arzoo’eyeh, Orzū’īyeh, ‘Orsū’īyeh, and Ozū’īyeh; also known as Ārzū) is a city and capital of Arzuiyeh County, in Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 5,668, in 1,286 families.
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] 🇹🇲 Türkmenabat, Türkmenistan (2014) Rizhao twin towns and sister cities are:
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP]  Razuiyeh (, also Romanized as Razū’īyeh; also known as Razoo) is a village in Mosaferabad Rural District, Rudkhaneh District, Rudan County, Hormozgan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 305, in 60 families.
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] Rizuiyeh  Rizuiyeh (, also Romanized as Rīzū’īyeh and Rizoo’eyeh; also known as Nīrū’īyeh, Razaviyeh, Rezu, Rīzū, and Tūkh Rāja) is a village in Shaab Jereh Rural District, Toghrol Al Jerd District, Kuhbanan County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 45, in 13 families.
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] settled them in sparsely populated areas, including the Galilee in Beirut Vilayet (Ottoman Syria). The area where they settled was called "Burak Alma"; ("Pools of Alma"). The village of Rehaniya was established in 1873, but only in 1878 did Circassian families arrive from the Abazah tribe in the northern Caucasus, a region where today is located the Adygea and Karachay–Cherkessia in the Russian Federation. In the 1922 census of Palestine conducted by the British Mandate authorities, "Rihania" had a population of 211; all Muslims, increasing slightly in the 1931 census to 222, still all Muslims, in a total of 53
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] in an attempt to storm rebel-held parts of the Damascus Qaboun district. As of 22 June, the rebels were still managing to hold the military forces back. The Army was also making attempts to storm the Barzeh district, where rebels were defending against the military's push. On 19 June, Army and Hezbollah forces clashed with rebels near the Khomeini hospital in the village of Zayabiyeh, close to the Shiite Sayyidah Zaynab Mosque. Government forces were attempting to capture villages near Zayabiyeh and Babila, which were both shelled by the Army. The Army was reportedly advancing towards Zayabiyeh, which is just
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] online store of Digikala, which has around 750,000 visitors per day and more than 2.3 million subscribers and is the most visited online store in the Middle East. Iran Iran ( ), also called Persia () and officially known as the Islamic Republic of Iran ( ), is a country in Western Asia. With over 81 million inhabitants, Iran is the world's 18th most populous country. Comprising a land area of , it is the second largest country in the Middle East and the 17th largest in the world. Iran is bordered to the northwest by Armenia and the Republic
In what country is Rizuiyeh? [SEP] so travelers usually stopped somewhere to rest. Seyyed's coffee shop was one of the best places for them, because now named Seyyed Khandan area was almost in the center of Old Road. In honor of the riant Seyyed, they named this place Seyyed Khandan meaning riant Seyyed. Seyed Khandan Seyed Khandan is a locality of the city of Tehran in Iran. It is the junction of Shariati Street and Resalat Highway. It is near Resalat district. Years ago, there was a riant man called "Seyyed" having a coffee shop ("ghahveh khaneh" in Persian) on north of now located Seyyed Khandan
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]  Veliki Koren (Großwurzen ) is an uninhabited settlement in the Municipality of Krško in eastern Slovenia. The area is part of the traditional region of Lower Carniola. It is now included with the rest of the municipality in the Lower Sava Statistical Region.
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]  Veliko Korenovo  is a village in Croatia.
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]  Koren (village) is a village in the municipality of Haskovo, in Haskovo Province, in southern Bulgaria. This village once belonged to the Hasköylü Ağalık, (Agaluk of Haskovo)
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]  Veliko Polje is a village located in the municipality of Obrenovac, Belgrade, Serbia. As of 2011 census, it has a population of 1,868 inhabitants.
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]  Veliki Koren had a population of 29 in 1900, but is now uninhabited. In the fall of 1941, German forces evicted the residents of the village to make room for the planned resettlement of Gottschee Germans. By 1971 only two houses remained in the village, and these were already slated for demolition because of the gradual expansion of a mine for diatomaceous earth.
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP] Veliko Korenovo  Veliko Korenovo is a village in Croatia.
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP]
In what country is Veliko Korenovo? [SEP] Gudovac massacre  The Gudovac massacre was the mass killing of around 190 Bjelovar Serbs by the Croatian nationalist Ustaše movement on 28 April 1941, during World War II. The massacre occurred shortly after the German-led Axis invasion of Yugoslavia and the establishment of the Ustaše-led Axis puppet state known as the Independent State of Croatia (NDH). It was the first act of mass murder committed by the Ustaše upon coming to power, and presaged a wider Ustaše-perpetrated campaign of genocide against Serbs in the NDH that lasted until the end of the war.  The Ustaše used the mysterious deaths of two of their local followers as a pretext for the killings. The victims were drawn from Gudovac and its surroundings on 28 April. Most were arrested under the guise that they were rebels loyal to the ousted Yugoslav government. They were taken to a nearby field and collectively shot by a firing squad of up to 70 Ustaše guards. Five of the prisoners managed to survive the initial volley and crawled away to safety. The Ustaše forced Gudovac's surviving inhabitants to dig a mass grave for the victims and pour quicklime on the bodies to speed up decomposition. The following day, relatives of one of the victims informed the Germans of what had transpired. The Germans ordered a partial exhumation of the mass grave, and had 40 suspected perpetrators arrested. Mladen Lorković, a senior Ustaše official, used his influence to have the detained men released and promised German ambassador Siegfried Kasche that the Croatian authorities would carry out a thorough investigation. No investigation took place.  An ossuary and a mausoleum were erected on the site of the massacre in 1955, as was a monument by the sculptor Vojin Bakić. In 1991, amid inter-ethnic violence during the Croatian War of Independence, the monument and the mausoleum were destroyed by Croatian nationalists, as was another one of Bakić's works, "Bjelovarac" (The Man From Bjelovar). The ruins of the ossuary were removed by the local authorities in 2002. That same year, residents signed a petition to have the "Bjelovarac" monument erected once again. The restored monument was unveiled in December 2010.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]  Gimenells i el Pla de la Font is a municipality in Segrià, Catalonia, Spain, made up of the settlements of Gimenells and the smaller el Pla de la Font. It has an area of 55.8 square kilometres and in 2011 had a population of 1,169. The mayor is Dante Pérez Berenguer.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]  La Font de la Guatlla is a neighborhood in the Sants-Montjuïc district of Barcelona, Catalonia (Spain).
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]  The Font Roja Natural Park (, Parque Natural del Carrascal de la Fuente Roja) is a natural park situated in Alcoy, in the autonomous community of Valencia, Spain. The Font Roja natural park was declared on April 13, 1987 natural park by the Generalitat Valenciana. It is located in the comarca of Alcoià, in the North of the province of Alicante, between the towns of Alcoy and Ibi. This natural park is one of the best preserved natural areas of the Valencian Community. The protected natural area covers 2.298 hectares and comprises mountainous alignment of El Alto de San Antonio (L'Alt de Sant Antoni), El Carrascar of the Font Roja (El Carrascar de la Font Roja) and La Teixereta. The summit of the Sierra del Menejador, with 1,356 m of height, is the highest elevation of the park.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]  Manel Fontdevila i Subirana, who signs as Manel, is a Spanish cartoonist (Manresa, 1965), who was a regular contributor to the satirical magazine El Jueves, where he published the series Para ti, que eres joven, alongside Albert Monteys and La Parejita S.A. (the comical daily misadventures of a romantic couple), and also he does less commercial albums for Glénat.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]   Anton Font Bernadet, (28 January 1932 – 20 March 2021) was a Spanish mime artist and educator. He was during his career and life recognized by the French Federation of Dance and Body Expression in Europe as the “only representative of theatrical mime in the Spanish State”. He was the creator of the Catalan theater company Els Joglars.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP] Gimenells i el Pla de la Font  Gimenells i el Pla de la Font is a municipality in Segrià, Catalonia, Spain, made up of the settlements of Gimenells and the smaller el Pla de la Font. It has an area of 55.8 square kilometres and in 2011 had a population of 1,169. The mayor is Dante Pérez Berenguer.
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]
In what country is Gimenells i el Pla de la Font? [SEP]
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP]  La Roche-Clermault is a commune in the Indre-et-Loire department in central France.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP]  The commune lies 4 km south of Clerval at the foot of the Lomont peak on the bank of the Doubs.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP]  Roche-lès-Clerval (, literally Roche near Clerval) is a commune in the Doubs department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region in eastern France.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP]  has shared the stage with artists such as Armand Van Helden, A-Trak, Aeroplane, and 2ManyDJs. Since 2008, He has toured America, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, Europe, Indonesia and Malaysia. European countries include: Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Ukraine. Festival appearances include Creamfields, Farmfestival, The Isle of Wight Festival, Latitude Festival and Oxygen. In 2014, La Roche supported Kylie Minogue on two dates of her Kiss Me Once Tour. In 2015, he undertook North and South American tours. On July 28, 2015, La Roche presented his own hour long show on BBC Radio 1. On March 20, 2017, La
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP] Aubigny ; Chaillé-sous-les-Ormeaux ; La Chaize-le-Vicomte ; Les Clouzeaux ; Dompierre-sur-Yon ; La Ferrière ; Fougeré ; Landeronde ; Mouilleron-le-Captif ; Nesmy ; La Roche-sur-Yon ; Saint-Florent-des-Bois ; Le Tablier ; Thorigny ; Venansault The Communauté d'agglomération "La Roche-sur-Yon Agglomération" contains 15 communes: La Roche-sur-Yon is the chief town of the Arrondissement of La Roche-sur-Yon, which covers 11 cantons, 92 communes, and has a population of 230,386 (1999 census). La-Roche-sur-Yon is chief town of two cantons, Canton of La Roche-sur-Yon-1 and Canton of La Roche-sur-Yon-2.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP] La Roche-Clermault  La Roche-Clermault () is a commune in the Indre-et-Loire department in central France.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP]
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP] Canton of Chinon  The canton of Chinon is an administrative division of the Indre-et-Loire department, central France. Its borders were modified at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its seat is in Chinon.  It consists of the following communes:<ref name=decret/>
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP] Arrondissement of Chinon  The arrondissement of Chinon is an arrondissement of France in the Indre-et-Loire department in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It has 106 communes.
In what country is La Roche-Clermault? [SEP] List of communes of the Loire valley  The Loire Valley is listed UNESCO World Heritage site since 30 November 2000 under the reference 933bis. The justification for the inscription of the territory is based on several criteria: its architectural heritage which includes the Châteaux of the Loire (criterion I), its exceptional cultural landscape (criterion II) and its cultural monuments, witnesses of the Renaissance and the century Enlightenment (criterion IV).  The list includes at this date 160 communes distributed in 2 regions (Pays de la Loire and Center-Val de Loire) and 4 departments (Maine-et-Loire, Loiret, Loir-et-Cher, Indre-et-Loire) on a distance of 280 km long stretching from Sully-sur-Loire to Chalonnes.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Biały Kościół is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Strzelin, within Strzelin County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It lies approximately 7 km south of Strzelin, and 44 km south of the regional capital Wrocław. The village has a population of 300.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Nowy Kościół (Neukirch) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Świerzawa, within Złotoryja County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany. It lies approximately 7 km north-west of Świerzawa, 9 km south-west of Złotoryja, and 83 km west of the regional capital Wrocław.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Biały Kościół is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wielka Wieś, within Kraków County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland. It lies approximately 15 km north-west of the regional capital Kraków. The village has a population of 950.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  The city is situated on the border of historic Upper Silesia and Lesser Poland at the eastern rim of the smaller Cieszyn Silesia region, about 60 km south of Katowice. Administrated within Silesian Voivodeship since 1999, the city was previously capital of Bielsko-Biała Voivodeship (1975–1998). Bielsko-Biała is one of the most important cities of the Beskidy Euroregion and the main city of the Bielsko Industrial Region (Bielski Okręg Przemysłowy), part of the Upper Silesian metropolitan area.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Białopole (Sommerau) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bogatynia, within Zgorzelec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland, close to the Czech and German borders. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany. It lies approximately 7 km south-west of Bogatynia, 31 km south of Zgorzelec, and 153 km west of the regional capital Wrocław.
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Biały Kościół, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Content? [SEP]  regulation work to get rid of inappropriate content. The types of regulation and the enforcement that comes with it vary depending on the country. With the restrictions, there are controls in place that help with regulating and getting rid of content. This may include content that has a specific moral standard or "non-mainstream" viewpoints. About 48 countries have taken legislative or administrative steps to regulate technology companies and the content that goes along with them. They work to solve the societal issues that occur online, such as harassment and extremism, and works better to protect people from fraudulent activity, exploitative business practices and protect human rights. At least 24 countries
In what country is Content? [SEP]  in America. On current trends, mobile phone content will play an increasing role in the lives of millions across the globe in the years ahead, as users will depend on their mobile phones to keep in touch not only with their friends but with world news, sports scores, the latest movies and music, and more. Mobile content is usually downloaded through WAP sites, but new methods are on the rise. In Italy, 800,000 people are registered users to Passa Parola, an application that allows users to browse a big database for mobile content and directly download it to their handsets. This tool
In what country is Content? [SEP]  Microsoft) in Africa, VKontakte (VK) and Odnoklassniki (eng. Classmates) in Russia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, WeChat and QQ in China. However, a concentration phenomenon is occurring globally giving the dominance to a few online platforms that become popular for some unique features they provide, most commonly for the added privacy they offer users through disappearing messages or end-to-end encryption (e.g. WhatsApp, Snapchat, Signal, and Telegram), but they have tended to occupy niches and to facilitate the exchanges of information that remain rather invisible to larger audiences. Production of freely accessible information has been increasing since 2012. In January 2017, Wikipedia had more
In what country is Content? [SEP]  Webedia is present in around twenty countries: France, Germany, Spain, Brazil, Mexico, Argentina, Chile, Colombia, United States, United Kingdom, Poland, Turkey, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Tunisia, Singapore. Brazil is the group's leading country in terms of audience, with 60 million unique monthly visitors in December 2018, followed by France (48 million) and Spain (24 million). Since 2020, Webedia has organized its activities around a "media-talents-production" triptych.
In what country is Content? [SEP]  No matter how friendly or temperate the beast, one is affected by every twitch and grunt." By the 1990s, the great majority of television, films, music, books, and magazines consumed by Canadians continued to be produced outside the country. Creators of Canadian rap music in 2000 complained that many radio stations did not include rap in their Canadian music content and that television stations aired few rap music videos and news stories, but the CRTC was slow to grant broadcast licenses for urban music radio stations. In recent years, the advent of online music and video has allowed international content providers to bypass CRTC regulations in many cases, but existing private contracts keep certain international content providers, such as Hulu, out of Canada entirely.
In what country is Content? [SEP] Motion picture content rating system  A motion picture content rating system classifies films based on their suitability for audiences due to their treatment of issues such as sex, violence, or substance abuse; their use of profanity; or other matters typically deemed unsuitable for children or adolescents. Most countries have some form of rating system that issues determinations variously known as "certifications", "classifications", "certificates", or "ratings". Age recommendations, of either an advisory or restrictive capacity, are often applied in lieu of censorship; in some jurisdictions movie theaters may have a legal obligation to enforce restrictive ratings.  In countries such as Australia and Singapore, an official government body decides on ratings; in other countries such as the United States, it is done by industry committees with little if any official government status. In most countries, however, films that are considered morally offensive have been censored, restricted, or banned. Even if the film rating system has no legal consequences, and a film has not explicitly been restricted or banned, there are usually laws forbidding certain films, or forbidding minors to view them. The influence of specific factors in deciding a rating varies from country to country.  Other factors may or may not influence the classification process, such as being set within a non-fictional historical context, whether the film glorifies violence or drug use, whether said violence or drug use is carried out by the protagonist, with whom the viewer should empathize, or by the antagonist. In Germany, for example, films depicting explicit war violence in a real war context (such as the Second World War) are handled more leniently than films with purely fictional settings.  A film may be produced with a particular rating in mind. It may be re-edited if the desired rating is not obtained, especially to avoid a higher rating than intended. A film may also be re-edited to produce a different version for other countries.
In what country is Content? [SEP] Geo-blocking  Geo-blocking or geoblocking is technology that restricts access to Internet content based upon the user's geographical location. In a geo-blocking scheme, the user's location is determined using Internet geolocation techniques, such as checking the user's IP address against a blacklist or whitelist, GPS queries in the case of a mobile device, accounts, and measuring the end-to-end delay of a network connection to estimate the physical location of the user.<ref name="telcoreviewnz-globalblock" /> The result of this check is used to determine whether the system will approve or deny access to the website or to particular content. The geolocation may also be used to modify the content provided, for example, the currency in which goods are quoted, the price or the range of goods that are available, besides other aspects.  The term is most commonly associated with its use to restrict access to premium multimedia content on the Internet, such as films and television shows, primarily for copyright and licensing reasons. There are other uses for geo-blocking, such as blocking malicious traffic or to enforce price discrimination, location-aware authentication, fraud prevention, and online gambling (where gambling laws vary by region).
In what country is Content? [SEP] Video game content rating system  A video game content rating system is a system used for the classification of video games based on suitability for target audiences. Most of these systems are associated with and/or sponsored by a government, and are sometimes part of the local motion picture rating system. The utility of such ratings has been called into question by studies that publish findings such as 90% of teenagers claim that their parents "never" check the ratings before allowing them to rent or buy video games, and as such, calls have been made to "fix" the existing rating systems. Video game content rating systems can be used as the basis for laws that cover the sales of video games to minors, such as in Australia. Rating checking and approval is part of the game localization when they are being prepared for their distribution in other countries or locales. These rating systems have also been used to voluntarily restrict sales of certain video games by stores, such as the German retailer Galeria Kaufhof's removal of all video games rated 18+ by the USK following the Winnenden school shooting.
In what country is Content? [SEP] Disney+  Disney+ is an American subscription video on-demand over-the-top streaming service owned and operated by the Media and Entertainment Distribution division of The Walt Disney Company. The service primarily distributes films and television series produced by The Walt Disney Studios and Walt Disney Television, with dedicated content hubs for the brands Disney, Pixar, Marvel, "Star Wars", and National Geographic, as well as Star in some regions. Original films and television series are also distributed on Disney+.  Disney+ relies on technology developed by Disney Streaming Services, which was originally established as BAMTech in 2015 when it was spun off from MLB Advanced Media (MLBAM). Disney increased its ownership share of BAMTech to a controlling stake in 2017, and subsequently transferred ownership to DTCI, as part of a corporate restructuring in anticipation of Disney's acquisition of 21st Century Fox.  With BAMTech helping to launch ESPN+ in early 2018, and Disney's streaming distribution deal with Netflix ending in 2019, Disney took the opportunity to use technologies being developed for ESPN+ to establish a Disney-branded streaming service that would feature its content. Production of films and television shows for exclusive release on the platform began in late 2017.  Disney+ was launched on November 12, 2019, in the United States, Canada, and the Netherlands, and expanded to Australia, New Zealand, and Puerto Rico a week later. It became available in select European countries in March 2020 and in India in April through Star India's Hotstar streaming service, which was rebranded as Disney+ Hotstar. Additional European countries received Disney+ in September 2020, with the service expanding to Latin America in November 2020. It later expanded in Southeast Asian countries since 2021, followed by countries in Northern and Eastern Europe, Middle East and parts of Africa since May 2022.  Upon launch, it was met with positive reception of its content library, but was criticized for technical problems and missing content. Alterations made to films and television shows also attracted media attention. Ten million users had subscribed to Disney+ by the end of its first day of operation. The service has 164.2 million global subscribers .<ref name="Subs2022Q4" />
In what country is Content? [SEP]
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP]  Zhukiv (Ukrainian Жуків), is a major village in Ternopil Raion of Ternopil Oblast, Ukraine. It is located about 8 km north of Berezhany, beside the hill named Huk. Zhukiv belongs to Berezhany urban hromada, one of the hromadas of Ukraine. It is the native village of the famous Ukrainian writer Bohdan Lepky. Zhukiv is located on banks of the river Zolota Lypa near Mountain Him, which is the largest mountain in Zhukiv. Population - 828 persons (2014). Yards - 240.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP] Soviet Union ; Ukraine  In Kharkiv the local Georgy Zhukov Avenue was renamed to Petro Grigorenko Avenue to comply with decommunization laws (this was several times undone by the Kharkiv city council).
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP]  The first written mention - 1420. Then Zhukiv received Magdeburg rights owned settlement was J. Labonte of Zhukiv. 1530 Zhukiv - Mikolay Sieniavski property. In 1626 as a result of the attack Tatar village was destroyed by 54%. In 1880 there lived and worked Sylvester Lepky (pen name Mark Marian Murawa). There he is buried. He was the father of Bohdan Lepky. Until 18 July 2020, Zhukiv belonged to Berezhany Raion. The raion was abolished in July 2020 as part of the administrative reform of Ukraine, which reduced the number of raions of Ternopil Oblast to three. The area of Berezhany Raion was merged into Ternopil Raion.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP]  Makiivka, Makiyivka or Makeyevka (Макіївка, ; Макеевка, ), formerly Dmytriivsk, Dmytriyevskyi, is an industrial city in eastern Ukraine within the Donetsk Oblast (province). Located 15 km from the capital Donetsk, the two cities are practically a conurbation. Makiivka is a leading metallurgical and coal-mining centre of the Donets Basin, with heavy industry and coking plants supporting the local steel and coal industries. While internationally recognized as part of Ukraine, the city has been under the de facto administration of the unrecognized Donetsk People's Republic since its capture by pro-Russian forces in 2014. It has a population of.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP]  Shevchenkivskyi District (Шевченківський район) is an urban district of the city of Kharkiv, Ukraine, named after the Ukrainian poet Taras Shevchenko. The district was created in 1932 out of parts of Ivano-Lysohirskyi and Petynsko-Zhuravlivskyi districts. It was named as Dzerzhynskyi after the head of Cheka (All-Russian Extraordinary Commission). It was renamed to its current name in February 2016 to comply with decommunization laws.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP] Georgy Zhukov  Georgy Konstantinovich Zhukov (; 1 December 1896 – 18 June 1974) was a Marshal of the Soviet Union. He also served as Chief of the General Staff, Minister of Defence, and was a member of the Presidium of the Communist Party (later Politburo). During World War II, Zhukov oversaw some of the Red Army's most decisive victories.  Born to a poor peasant family from central Russia, Zhukov was conscripted into the Imperial Russian Army and fought in World War I. He served in the Red Army during the Russian Civil War. Gradually rising through the ranks, by 1939 Zhukov had been given command of an army group and won a decisive battle over Japanese forces at Khalkhin Gol, for which he won the first of his four Hero of the Soviet Union awards. In February 1941, Zhukov was appointed as chief of the Red Army's General Staff.  Following the German invasion of the Soviet Union, Zhukov lost his position as chief of the general staff. Subsequently, he organized the defense of Leningrad, Moscow, and Stalingrad. He participated in planning several major offensives, including the Battle of Kursk, and Operation Bagration. In 1945, Zhukov commanded the 1st Belorussian Front; he took part in the Vistula–Oder Offensive, and the Battle of Berlin, which resulted in the defeat of Nazi Germany, and the end of the war in Europe. In recognition of Zhukov's role in the war, he was chosen to accept the German Instrument of Surrender, and inspect the Moscow Victory Parade of 1945.  After the war, Zhukov's success and popularity caused Joseph Stalin to see him as a potential threat. Stalin stripped him of his positions and relegated him to military commands of little strategic significance. After Stalin's death in 1953, Zhukov supported Nikita Khrushchev's bid for Soviet leadership. In 1955, he was appointed as Defence Minister and made a member of the Presidium. In 1957 Zhukov lost favour again and was forced to retire. He never returned to a position of influence, and died in 1974.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP]
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP] White Coke  White Coke (, "colorless Coca-Cola") was a clear variant of Coca-Cola produced in the 1940s at the request of Marshal of the Soviet Union Georgy Zhukov. Like other clear colas, it had the same flavor as the original, virtually unchanged by the absence of caramel coloring.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP] Vladimir Zhukov  Vladimir Sergeevich Zhukov (; born June 20, 1972), known as The Nizhegorodsky Chikatilo (), is a Russian serial killer, rapist and pedophile.
In what country is Zhukiv? [SEP] Hungarian Revolution of 1956  The Hungarian Revolution of 1956 (23 October – 10 November 1956; ), also known as the Hungarian Uprising, was a countrywide revolution against the government of the Hungarian People's Republic (1949–1989) and the Hungarian domestic policies imposed by the Soviet Union (USSR).  The Hungarian Revolution began on 23 October 1956 in Budapest when university students appealed to the civil populace to join them at the Hungarian Parliament Building to protest against the USSR's geopolitical domination of Hungary with the Stalinist government of Mátyás Rákosi. A delegation of students entered the building of Hungarian Radio to broadcast their sixteen demands for political and economic reforms to the civil society of Hungary, but they were instead detained by security guards. When the student protestors outside the radio building demanded the release of their delegation of students, policemen from the ÁVH (Államvédelmi Hatóság) state protection authority shot and killed several protestors.  Consequently, Hungarians organized into revolutionary militias to fight against the ÁVH; local Hungarian communist leaders and ÁVH policemen were captured and summarily killed or lynched; and anti-communist political prisoners were released and armed. To realize their political, economic, and social demands, the local soviets (councils of workers) assumed control of municipal government from the Hungarian Working People's Party (). The new government of Imre Nagy disbanded the ÁVH, declared the Hungarian withdrawal from the Warsaw Pact, and pledged to re-establish free elections. By the end of October the intense fighting had subsided.  Although initially willing to negotiate the withdrawal of the Soviet Army from Hungary, the USSR repressed the Hungarian Revolution on 4 November 1956, and fought the Hungarian revolutionaries until 10 November; repression of the Hungarian Uprising killed 2,500 Hungarians and 700 Soviet Army soldiers, and compelled 200,000 Hungarians to seek political refuge abroad.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]   Saint-Vincent-de-Salers  is a commune in the Cantal department in south-central France.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]  Saint-François-de-Sales is a commune in the Savoie department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in south-eastern France.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]  Saint-Vincent-de-Paul is a commune in the Landes department in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in southwestern France. The village was formerly called Pouy. It was renamed in 1828 after Saint Vincent de Paul, who was born there. Tourists can visit his parents' home and learn about his work in the "Berceau", only a few miles (several km) from Dax.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]  Saint-Vincent-Jalmoutiers (Sent Vincenç de Jaumostier) is a commune in the Dordogne department in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in southwestern France.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]  Saint-Vincent-les-Forts (Vivaro-Alpine: Sant Vincenç dei Fòrts) is a former commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department of southeastern France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged with the commune of La Bréole to form Ubaye-Serre-Ponçon.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP] Saint-Vincent-de-Salers  Saint-Vincent-de-Salers (, literally "Saint-Vincent of Salers"; ) is a commune in the Cantal department in south-central France.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP] Arrondissement of Mauriac  The arrondissement of Mauriac is an arrondissement of France in the Cantal department of the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It has 55 communes.
In what country is Saint-Vincent-de-Salers? [SEP]
In what country is Weed? [SEP]   Currently, Uruguay and Canada are the only countries that have fully legalized the consumption and sale of recreational cannabis nationwide. In the United States, 18 states, 2 territories, and the District of Columbia have legalized the recreational use of cannabis – though the drug remains illegal at the federal level. Laws vary from state to state when it comes to the commercial sale. Court rulings in Georgia and South Africa have led to the legalization of cannabis consumption, but not legal sales. A policy of limited enforcement has also been adopted in many countries, in particular Spain and the Netherlands where
In what country is Weed? [SEP]  High Times called Antarctica "the most weed-friendly place in the world" because it is "functionally a lawless land", yet acknowledged that visitors may be subject to the laws of their home country, in particular researchers on the continent. Under the Antarctic Treaty, drug-related offenses are handled by the "national law of the expedition" but there are potential conflicts if more than one nation claims jurisdiction. Vice magazine published an analysis of international cannabis law in 2019, concluding that consumption of cannabis under the Treaty is legal for residents of Uruguay, Canada or another nation with adult-use legalization.
In what country is Weed? [SEP]  Cannabis in Kazakhstan is illegal. Extensive amounts of cannabis grow wild in the country. The 2006 World Drug Report estimated that 400,000 hectares of cannabis grow wild in the Chui Valley. Per Russia's Ministry of Internal Affairs, 93% of the nation's marijuana comes from Kazakhstan.
In what country is Weed? [SEP]  imprisonment for several years. Countries that have legalized recreational use of cannabis are Canada, Georgia, Malta, Mexico, South Africa, and Uruguay, plus 18 states, 2 territories, and the District of Columbia in the United States and the Australian Capital Territory in Australia. Commercial sale of recreational cannabis is legalized nationwide in two countries (Canada and Uruguay) and in all subnational U.S. jurisdictions that have legalized possession except Washington, D.C. A policy of limited enforcement has also been adopted in many countries, in particular the Netherlands where the sale of cannabis is tolerated at licensed coffeeshops. Countries that have legalized medical use of cannabis include
In what country is Weed? [SEP]  Weed Country is an American reality television series that aired on the Discovery Channel. The series premiered on February 20, 2013, during Discovery Channel's programming block titled "Weed Wednesdays". The series followed dealers, growers and patients of the marijuana trade located within the Emerald Triangle, along with the enforcers of the law at the Siskiyou County Sheriff's office.
In what country is Weed? [SEP] Legality of cannabis  The legality of cannabis for medical and recreational use varies by country, in terms of its possession, distribution, and cultivation, and (in regards to medical) how it can be consumed and what medical conditions it can be used for. These policies in most countries are regulated by three United Nations treaties: the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances, and the 1988 Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. Since its descheduling in 2020, cannabis is classified as a Schedule I drug under the Single Convention treaty, meaning that signatories can allow medical use but that it is considered to be an addictive drug with a serious risk of abuse.  The use of cannabis for recreational purposes is prohibited in most countries; however, many have adopted a policy of decriminalization to make simple possession a non-criminal offense (often similar to a minor traffic violation). Others have much more severe penalties such as some Asian and Middle Eastern countries where possession of even small amounts is punished by imprisonment for several years. Countries that have legalized recreational use of cannabis are Canada, Georgia, Malta, Mexico, South Africa, Thailand, and Uruguay, plus 21 states, 2 territories, and the District of Columbia in the United States and the Australian Capital Territory in Australia. Commercial sale of recreational cannabis is legalized nationwide in three countries (Canada, Thailand, and Uruguay) and in all subnational U.S. jurisdictions that have legalized possession except Washington, D.C. A policy of limited enforcement has also been adopted in many countries, in particular the Netherlands where the sale of cannabis is tolerated at licensed coffeeshops.  Countries that have legalized medical use of cannabis include Argentina, Australia, Barbados, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malta, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, North Macedonia, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, San Marino, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, Thailand, the United Kingdom, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Others have more restrictive laws that allow only the use of certain cannabis-derived pharmaceuticals, such as Sativex, Marinol, or Epidiolex. In the United States, 37 states, 4 territories, and the District of Columbia have legalized the medical use of cannabis, but at the federal level its use remains prohibited.
In what country is Weed? [SEP] Cannabis in Georgia (country)  Cannabis in Georgia is legal in terms of its possession and consumption due to a ruling by the Constitutional Court of Georgia on 30 July 2018. This makes Georgia one of the first countries in the world to legalize cannabis for both recreational and medical use, and the only former-communist state in the world to do so.  Large scale cultivation and sale of cannabis remains illegal, although there have been active discussions in Georgia's political circles on commercializing marijuana. In the political arena, Girchi and its leader Zurab Japaridze emerged as one of the strongest supporters of more liberal cannabis policies, although this view has then been picked up by other political forces as well to some extent.
In what country is Weed? [SEP]
In what country is Weed? [SEP] Weed Country  Weed Country is an American reality television series that aired on the Discovery Channel. The series premiered on February 20, 2013, during Discovery Channel's programming block titled "Weed Wednesdays". The series followed dealers, growers and patients of the marijuana trade located within the Emerald Triangle, along with the enforcers of the law at the Siskiyou County Sheriff's office.
In what country is Weed? [SEP] Cannabis in Morocco  Cannabis in Morocco had been illegal since the nation's independence in 1956, reaffirmed by a total ban on drugs in 1974, but was partially tolerated in the country. Cannabis has been cultivated in Morocco for centuries and the country is currently among the world's top producers of hashish. As of 2016, Morocco was the world's top supplier of cannabis. On May 26, 2021, the Moroccan parliament voted to legalize the use of cannabis for medical, as well as cosmetic and industrial purposes.
In what country is Alder? [SEP]   Alders are trees comprising the genus Alnus in the birch family Betulaceae. The genus comprises about 35 species of monoecious trees and shrubs, a few reaching a large size, distributed throughout the north temperate zone with a few species extending into Central America, as well as the northern and southern Andes.
In what country is Alder? [SEP]  The common alder is native to almost the whole of continental Europe (except for both the extreme north and south) as well as the United Kingdom and Ireland. In Asia its range includes Turkey, Iran and Kazakhstan, and in Africa it is found in Tunisia, Algeria and Morocco. It is naturalised in the Azores. It has been introduced, either by accident or by intent, to Canada, the United States, Chile, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. Its natural habitat is in moist ground near rivers, ponds and lakes but it can also grow in drier locations and sometimes occurs in mixed woodland and on forest edges. It tolerates a range of soil types and grows best at a pH of between 5.5 and 7.2. Because of its association with the nitrogen-fixing bacterium Frankia alni, it can grow in nutrient-poor soils where few other trees thrive.
In what country is Alder? [SEP]  Pullea stutzeri, the Hard Alder is a species of rainforest plant in the ancient family Cunoniaceae. It is endemic to the wet tropics rainforests of northeastern Queensland, Australia.
In what country is Alder? [SEP]  The genus is divided into three subgenera:
In what country is Alder? [SEP]  Alders are commonly found near streams, rivers, and wetlands. Sometimes where the prevalence of alders is particularly prominent these are called alder carrs. In the Pacific Northwest of North America, the white alder (Alnus rhombifolia) unlike other northwest alders, has an affinity for warm, dry climates, where it grows along watercourses, such as along the lower Columbia River east of the Cascades and the Snake River, including Hells Canyon. Alder leaves and sometimes catkins are used as food by numerous butterflies and moths. A. glutinosa and A. viridis are classed as environmental weeds in New Zealand. Alder leaves and especially the roots are important to the ecosystem because they enrich the soil with nitrogen and other nutrients.
In what country is Alder? [SEP] Alder, Montana  Alder is a census-designated place (CDP) in Madison County, Montana, United States. The population was 116 at the 2000 census. The community takes its name from (named by Henry Edgar in 1863), the site of the second major gold discovery in Montana.
In what country is Alder? [SEP] Alder  Alders are trees comprising the genus Alnus in the birch family Betulaceae. The genus comprises about 35 species of monoecious trees and shrubs, a few reaching a large size, distributed throughout the north temperate zone with a few species extending into Central America, as well as the northern and southern Andes.<ref name="ffffffff"/>
In what country is Alder? [SEP] Alderman  An alderman is a member of a municipal assembly or council in many jurisdictions founded upon English law. The term may be titular, denoting a high-ranking member of a borough or county council, a council member chosen by the elected members themselves rather than by popular vote, or a council member elected by voters. Section::::Etymology. The title is derived from the Old English title of "ealdorman", literally meaning "elder man", and was used by the chief nobles presiding over shires. Similar titles exist in some Germanic countries, such as the Swedish language ', the Danish, Low German language ', and West Frisian language ', the Dutch language ', the (non-Germanic) Finnish language ' (a borrowing from the Germanic Swedes next door), and the High German ', which all mean "elder man" or "wise man".
In what country is Alder? [SEP] Alder, Washington  Alder is a census-designated place (CDP) in Pierce County, Washington, United States. The population was 227 at the 2010 census. The community is located along the shore of Alder Lake on State Route Highway 7 near the entrance to Mount Rainier National Park.  A post office called Alder was established in 1902, and remained in operation until 1975. The community was named for the alder trees near the original town site.
In what country is Alder? [SEP] Jonathan Alder  Jonathan Alder (September 17, 1773 – January 30, 1849) was an American pioneer, and the first white settler in Madison County, Ohio. As a young child living in Virginia, Alder was kidnapped by Shawnee Indians, and later adopted by a Mingo chief in the Ohio Country. He lived with the Native Americans for many years before returning to the white community.  Alder settled near present-day Plain City, Ohio, where he became a farmer. He was reunited with his birth family, which moved to Ohio with him, and also had a short career as a military officer during the War of 1812. A middle school, high school, and school district in Plain City all bear his name.
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]  Brizambourg is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France.
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]  🇮🇹 San Giorgio di Pesaro, Italy
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]  Ansembourg (Aansebuerg, Ansemburg) is a village in the commune of Helperknapp, in western Luxembourg. , the village had a population of 61. Ansembourg is in part of the Eisch valley known as the Valley of the Seven Castles. The village is the site of two of the seven castles. The New Castle of Ansembourg, located about one kilometre or just over half a mile below the Old Castle, was built by the industrialist Thomas Bidart in 1639 and is now known for its more modern finish and its terraced gardens.
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]  Hombourg (Homburg; Homburg; (op) Homerech; Hôbâr) is a village of Wallonia and a district of the municipality of Plombières, located in the province of Liège, Belgium.
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Bad Kreuznach, Germany ; Aylesbury, England ; 🇮🇹 San Severo, Italy ; 🇮🇹 Parma, Italy ; 🇧🇪 Namur, Belgium ; 🇵🇱 Brzeg, Poland ; 🇹🇳 El Kef, Tunesia  Bourg-en-Bresse is twinned with:
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP] Brizambourg  Brizambourg () is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France.
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP] Annepont  Annepont () is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region of southwestern France.  The inhabitants of the commune are known as "Annepontois" or "Annepontoises"
In what country is Brizambourg? [SEP]
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]  The Călmuș (also: Calmus) is a left tributary of the river Tazlăul Sărat in Romania. It discharges into the Tazlăul Sărat in Ardeoani. Its length is 7 km and its basin size is 13 km2.
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]  Calmus (Kaalmes) is a small village in the commune of Saeul, in western Luxembourg. , the town has a population of 76.
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]  The Călmățui is a left tributary of the river Danube in Romania. It discharges into the Danube near Suhaia. It flows through the villages Stoicănești, Radomirești, Călinești, Crângeni, Călmățuiu, Salcia, Putineiu, Dracea, Crângu, Lisa and Viișoara. Its length is 139 km and its basin size is 1413 km2.
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]  The commune is traversed by the Dourdou de Camarès River.
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]  The Călmățui is a left tributary of the river Siret in Romania. It discharges into the Siret near the village Tudor Vladimirescu. Its length is 25 km and its basin size is 363 km2.
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]
In what country is Călmuș River? [SEP]
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP]  Eschelbronn is a village with 2,597 inhabitants in the Rhein-Neckar district of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is adjacent to Sinsheim.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP]  Maulbronn is a city in the district of Enz in Baden-Württemberg in southern Germany.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP] 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 Reigate and Banstead, England, United Kingdom (1985) ; 🇩🇪 Sulzbach-Rosenberg, Germany (2019) ; 🇫🇷 Wattrelos, France (1975) Eschweiler is twinned with:
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP]  Landkreis Heilbronn is a Landkreis (district) in the north of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Neighboring districts are (from north clockwise) Neckar-Odenwald, Hohenlohe, Schwäbisch Hall, Rems-Murr, Ludwigsburg, Enz, Karlsruhe and Rhein-Neckar. In the centre of it is the free-city of Heilbronn, which is its own separate administrative area.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP]  is a municipality in the German state of Baden-Württemberg, in Ostalbkreis district.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP] Eschbronn  Eschbronn is a municipality in the district of Rottweil, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP]
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP] List of German-language radio stations  This is a list of radio stations with German language broadcasts.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP] Zimmern ob Rottweil  Zimmern ob Rottweil is a town in the district of Rottweil, in Baden-Württemberg, Germany. The municipality includes the former independent municipalities Zimmern ob Rottweil, Flözlingen, Horgen and Stetten ob Rottweil. Zimmern is located on a plateau over the upper Neckar valley, the villages Horgen, Stetten and Flözlingen are located in the Eschach valley.
In what country is Eschbronn? [SEP] Rottweil (district)  Rottweil is a "Landkreis" (district) in the middle of Baden-Württemberg, Germany. It is part of the Schwarzwald-Baar-Heuberg region in the Breisgau-Hochschwarzwald regional district. Neighboring districts are (from north clockwise) Freudenstadt, Zollernalbkreis, Tuttlingen, Schwarzwald-Baar and Ortenaukreis.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]  Kondh is a village in Dhrangadhra Taluka in Surendranagar district of Gujarat State, India. Nearby villages are Rajcharadi, Hampar, Navalgadh, Bhechada, Gajanvav, Ratanpar, Rampara, Raygadh, Ravaliyavadar and Narichana. Kondh's main crops are magafali (peanuts) and kappas (cotton). Kondh's Postal Index Number code is 363310 and the postal head office is Surendranagar.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]  Surendranagar is an administrative district in Saurashtra region of Gujarat state in India. It has a population of approximately 1.7 million people. Surendranagar city, along with the twin city of Wadhwan, has a total of 400,000 inhabitants, and is known as "Camp".
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]  In the past, Surendranagar was used by colonialists as a hill station, because of its dry environment that was beneficial for some physical as well as mental ailments. Surendranagar's dry air is still believed to be the best place in Gujarat to cure tuberculosis patients. District capital Surendranagar, which lies under Municipality body is suffering from poor condition of roads and the two Causeways which join both the sides of city divided by Bhogavo River. Municipality body of city is considered to be a candidate for status of Municipal Corporation for a long time but due to some political reasons it never happen. It has the second highest number of educational institutes per capita. Many newspapers are published from Surendranagar in Gujarat.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]  Nearly 25 percent of India's salt supply comes from mining in the Surendranagar area. There are miles of Agar (Salt pans), especially in the Kharaghoda area. High-quality salt is produced in Zinzuwada, a desert area.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]  According to the 2011 census Surendranagar district has a population of 1,756,268, with 909,917 males and 846,351 females roughly equal to the nation of The Gambia or the US state of Nebraska. This gives it a ranking of 274th in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of 167 PD/sqkm. Its population growth rate over the decade 2001–2011 was 15.89%. Surendranagar has a sex ratio of 929 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 73.19%. At the time of the 2011 Census of India, 98.84% of the population in the district spoke Gujarati and 0.69% Hindi as their first language. 76.82% of the population is Hindu. Caste wise residents include Brahmins, Kshatriya, Patels, Vankar as well as significant numbers of Bharvad, Rabari, Luhar Suthar, Kansara, Mochi and Sathwara . Main Jain Temple, which is in the heart of the city, of Sri Vasupujyaswami Bhahvan is more than 100 years old.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP] Kondh, Surendranagar  Kondh is a village in Dhrangadhra Taluka in Surendranagar district of Gujarat State, India. Nearby villages are Rajcharadi, Hampar, Navalgadh, Bhechada, Gajanvav, Ratanpar, Rampara, Raygadh, Ravaliyavadar and Narichana.  Kondh's main crops are magafali (peanuts) and kappas (cotton).  Kondh's Postal Index Number code is 363310 and the postal head office is Surendranagar.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP]
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP] List of Scheduled Tribes in India  This is a list of Scheduled Tribes in India. The term "Scheduled Tribes" refers to specific tribes whose status is acknowledged to some formal degree by national legislation.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP] Kharaghoda  Kharaghoda is a census town in Surendranagar district in the Indian state of Gujarat.  Under the Bombay Presidency of British Raj, Kharaghoda was a part of the then Ahmedabad district, and had the terminus of a branch railway line. A government salt factory was established here under the brand name of ""Bharat Salt"".  Hindustan Salts Limited, the only public sector company in India engaged in the manufacture and sale of salt, has salt plants in Karaghoda. Recent studies have uncovered that the bitterns produced in Kharaghoda are rich in bromides and can become a source for bromine.
In what country is Kondh, Surendranagar? [SEP] Dhrangadhra Assembly constituency  Dhrangadhra is one of the 182 Legislative Assembly constituencies of Gujarat state in India. It is part of Surendranagar district. After 2008 delimitation, erstwhile Halvad assembly seat was merged with this seat.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]  Rogers Group is a Mauritius-based listed international services and investment company with specialist expertise within four markets: FinTech, Hospitality, Logistics and Property. Operations within each served market are organised into sectors, with 4,545 people and 52 offices across 12 different territories.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]  Rogers is a city in Benton County, Arkansas, United States. Located in the Ozarks, it is part of the Northwest Arkansas region, one of the fastest growing metro areas in the country. Rogers was the location of the first Walmart store, whose corporate headquarters is located in neighboring Bentonville. Daisy Outdoor Products, known for its air rifles, has both its headquarters and its Airgun Museum in Rogers. As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 55,964. In 2019, the estimated population was 68,669, making it the sixth-most populous city in the state. Northwest Arkansas is ranked 109th in terms of population in the United States, with 465,776 inhabitants as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]  Churence Rogers (born June 3, 1953) is a Canadian politician from Newfoundland and Labrador, who was elected to the House of Commons of Canada in a by-election on December 11, 2017. He represents the electoral district of Bonavista—Burin—Trinity as a member of the Liberal Party of Canada caucus.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]  Born in Eastville, Nova Scotia, to Samuel G. and Mahala (née Graham) Cox, Rogers was raised on a farm and attended Eastville High School and Normal School. She worked as a teacher in Nova Scotia until 1913, when she visited her aunt, Margaret Redmond, in Edgerton, Alberta. While there, she accepted an offer to teach at Bloomington School. She attended Camrose Normal School in 1914, after which she taught in Edgerton and near Tofield until 1918. Disillusioned with teaching in rural schoolhouses, she took a business course and began work as a bank teller for the Merchants Bank of Canada, which later merged with the Bank of Montreal, in Edgerton; this was an unusual career choice for a woman at the time. In
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]  D. Rogers is an Australian musician based in Melbourne. He was a member of Klinger until he left in 2003 and moved to Japan. While in Japan, working as an English teacher, he recorded two albums, the first being a friends-only release. He returned to Australia in 2007 and recorded a third solo album.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP]
In what country is Rogers? [SEP] Jimmie Rodgers  James Charles Rodgers (September 8, 1897 – May 26, 1933) was an American singer-songwriter and musician who rose to popularity in the late 1920s. Widely regarded as "the Father of Country Music", he is best known for his distinctive rhythmic yodeling, unusual for a music star of his era. Rodgers rose to prominence based upon his recordings, among country music's earliest, rather than concert performances.  He has been cited as an inspiration by many artists and inductees into various halls of fame across both country music and the blues, in which he was also a pioneer. Among his other popular nicknames are "The Singing Brakeman" and "The Blue Yodeler".
In what country is Rogers? [SEP] Rogers, Arkansas  Rogers is a city in Benton County, Arkansas, United States. Located in the Ozarks, it is part of the Northwest Arkansas region, one of the fastest growing metro areas in the country. Rogers was the location of the first Walmart store, whose corporate headquarters is located in neighboring Bentonville. Daisy Outdoor Products, known for its air rifles, has both its headquarters and its Airgun Museum in Rogers.  As of the 2010 census, the city had a population of 55,964. In 2019, the estimated population was 68,669, making it the sixth-most populous city in the state. Northwest Arkansas is ranked 109th in terms of population in the United States, with 465,776 inhabitants as of the 2010 U.S. Census.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP] Coward of the County  "Coward of the County" is a song written by Roger Bowling and Billy Edd Wheeler, and recorded by American country music singer Kenny Rogers. The song was released in November 1979 as the second single from Rogers' multi-platinum album "Kenny". It became a major crossover hit, topping the "Billboard" Country chart and reaching #3 on the Hot 100 chart; it also topped the Cash Box singles chart and was a Top 10 hit in numerous other countries worldwide topping the chart in Canada, the UK, and also in Ireland where it stayed at #1 for six consecutive weeks.
In what country is Rogers? [SEP] Roy Rogers  Roy Rogers (born Leonard Franklin Slye; November 5, 1911 – July 6, 1998) was an American singer, actor, and television host. Following early work under his given name, first as co-founder of the Sons of the Pioneers and then acting, the rebranded Rogers then became one of the most popular Western stars of his era. Known as the "King of the Cowboys", he appeared in over 100 films and numerous radio and television episodes of "The Roy Rogers Show". In many of his films and television episodes, he appeared with his wife, Dale Evans; his Golden Palomino, Trigger; and his German Shepherd, Bullet. His show was broadcast on radio for nine years and then on television from 1951 through 1957. His early roles were uncredited parts in films by fellow cowboy singing star Gene Autry and his productions usually featured a sidekick, often Pat Brady, Andy Devine, George "Gabby" Hayes, or Smiley Burnette. In his later years, he lent his name to the franchise chain of Roy Rogers Restaurants.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]  COS (China Operating System) is a Linux kernel-based mobile operating system developed in China mainly targeting mobile devices, tablets and set-top boxes. It is being developed by the Institute of Software at the Chinese Academy of Sciences (ISCAS) together with Shanghai Liantong Network Communications Technology to compete with foreign operating systems like iOS and Android. The operating system is based on Linux but the platform is closed source. Security and the risk of back doors in devices from foreign vendors are some of the main motivations for COS. Android had almost 90% of the smart phone market when COS was introduced and Apple most of the remaining market share. COS looks very similar to Android and has its own Application Portal much like Android Market and iOS App Store.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]  Community of Science (COS) was a collection of online databases, providing research information to both the public and subscribers, and services for the research community. It is owned by ProQuest.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]  Chinese Optical Society (abbreviated COS) is a professional association of individuals with an interest in optics and photonics. It sponsored the Chinese Optics Letters, a monthly peer-reviewed scientific journal focusing on optics. As of 2019, the society has 21 specialized committees and 7 working committees with more than 15,000 individual members.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]  The Central Organization of Statistics & Information Technology (COSIT) or the Central Organization for Statistics (COS, الجهاز المركزي للاحصاء) is the Government of Iraq's statistics agency. It has its headquarters in Hay Al-Elwiya, Baghdad.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]  China Oilfield Services (COSL) is an oilfield services company. It is a majority owned subsidiary of Chinese state owned company CNOOC Group. It also has a listed sister company in Hong Kong, CNOOC Limited. China Oilfield Services usually purchases off shore vessels (OSVs) and operates them in Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Central Asia in off shore projects of CNOOC. It also operates in Indonesia, Malaysia and the Caspian Sea.
In what country is Cos? [SEP]
In what country is Cos? [SEP]
In what country is Cos? [SEP] Kos  Kos or Cos (; ) is a Greek island, part of the Dodecanese island chain in the southeastern Aegean Sea. Kos is the third largest island of the Dodecanese by area, after Rhodes and Karpathos; it has a population of 36,986 (2021 census), making it the second most populous of the Dodecanese, after Rhodes.
In what country is Cos? [SEP] Cos Cob, Connecticut  Cos Cob is a neighborhood and census-designated place in the town of Greenwich, Connecticut. It is located on the Connecticut shoreline in southern Fairfield County. It had a population of 6,770 at the 2010 census.<ref name="Census 2010"/>  Cos Cob is located on the western side of the mouth of the Mianus River. The American Impressionist Cos Cob Art Colony flourished in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. An offshoot of the group, the Greenwich Art Society, continues to support local artists in town.  The town of Greenwich is one political and taxing body, but consists of several distinct sections or neighborhoods, such as Banksville, Byram, Cos Cob, Glenville, Mianus, Old Greenwich, Riverside and Greenwich (sometimes referred to as central, or downtown, Greenwich). Of these neighborhoods, three (Cos Cob, Old Greenwich, and Riverside) have separate postal names and ZIP codes. From 1883 to 1885, the official post office name of Cos Cob was Bayport.  In 2015, Forbes ranked Cos Cob the 287th wealthiest place in the US with a median house sale price of $1,329,107.
In what country is Cos? [SEP] List of IOC country codes  The International Olympic Committee (IOC) uses three-letter abbreviation country codes to refer to each group of athletes that participate in the Olympic Games. Each geocode usually identifies a National Olympic Committee (NOC), but there are several codes that have been used for other instances in past Games, such as teams composed of athletes from multiple nations, or groups of athletes not formally representing any nation.  Several of the IOC codes are different from the standard ISO 3166-1 alpha-3 codes. Other sporting organisations like FIFA use similar country codes to refer to their respective teams, but with some differences. Still others, such as the Commonwealth Games Federation or Association of Tennis Professionals, use the IOC list verbatim.  Because French is the first reference language of the IOC, followed by English, followed by the host country's language when necessary, most IOC codes have their origins from French or English.
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]  Seishin Ursula Gakuen Junior College (聖心ウルスラ学園短期大学) was a private junior college in Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan, established in 1967. The present name was adopted in 1991. Originally a women's college, it began admitting male students in 1997. It closed down in 2011.
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]  Seishin Gakuen Women's Junior College (清真学園女子短期大学) was a private junior college in Kashima city, Ibaraki Prefecture, Japan. It was set up in 1984. It was set up to enhance local development of the industrial economy. Student recruitment ended in fiscal year 2001 and the school closed in 2003.
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP] English department
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]  Teisei Gakuen Junior College (貞静学園短期大学) is a junior college in Tokyo, Japan, and is part of the Teisei Gakuen network. The institute was founded in 1930 by Maki Takahashi, developed as a Junior College in 2009.
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]  Seirei Women's Junior College (聖霊女子短期大学) is a private junior college, located in the city of Akita, Japan. The school is affiliated with the Roman Catholic Church.
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP] Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP]
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP] In the immediate postwar period, the sanatorium expanded into education by forming the “Enshū School of Christ”, the forerunner of both "Seirei Christopher High School" and "Seirei Christopher University" in 1949. Seeing the need for increased medical services in postwar Japan, the sanatorium created the "Seirei Vocational School for Practical Nurses" in 1952; it changed its name in 1969 to the "Seirei Gakuen Junior College of Nursing". In 1992, with the financial help of three billion yen from the Tokio Marine & Nichido Fire Insurance Company, a four-year "Seirei Christopher College of Nursing" was founded. Seirei Christopher College of Nursing
In what country is Seishi Ursula Gakuen Junior College? [SEP] addition to classroom studies and to encourage students to be more interested in international studies. The International programs are categorized into four areas: Outbound, Inbound, English Study Support and After-graduation. Doshisha Women’s College was designated by Kyoto as one of the “Kyoto Global Universities” on October 31, 2016 and will receive a grant from the city from 2016 to 2019 to enrich the international programs especially inbound programs. United States of America (16 institutions) Canada (12 institutions) United Kingdom (11 institutions) Australia (5 Institutions) New Zealand (1 institution) Germany (2 institutions) China (2 institutions) Taiwan [the Republic of China] (6
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP]  Selkirk Generating Station is a natural gas-fired station owned by Manitoba Hydro. It is located just across the Red River from Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada, in the Rural Municipality of St. Clements. Construction began in 1957, and the station went into commercial service in 1961 with two 66 MW steam turbine-generator units burning lignite coal from Saskatchewan. In 2002 it was converted to burn natural gas, at a cost of $30 million.
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP]  Winnipeg, to the present northernmost stations near Gillam. ; Brandon Combustion Turbines: In 2003, Manitoba Hydro commissioned two simple-cycle gas turbine generating units at the existing plant in Brandon. These natural gas-fuelled units are intended to provide peaking power and supplemental capacity in case of low water levels. ; Selkirk Natural Gas Conversion: In 2003, the fuel supply of the Selkirk steam boilers was converted to natural gas. While this is a more expensive fuel than the coal previously used at this plant, it allows the life of the station to be extended without the capital cost required to clean coal emissions up to current standards. ; Wind Energy Survey: While Manitoba Hydro is in the
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP]  Wuskwatim generating station is on the Burntwood River near Thompson. The general civil works contract was awarded in 2008, and first power from the project occurred in June 2012. The plant was officially opened on July 5, 2012, while construction of the remaining two units continued. This 200 MW station has three hydraulic turbine generator units, causes less than one half square kilometre of new flooding, and has only a small reservoir. This project had the most extensive environmental review of any generating project in Manitoba. Participation of the Nisichawayasihk Cree Nation (NCN) First Nation was passed by a June 2006 referendum by NCN members. This partnership between NCN and Manitoba Hydro will allow advancement of the in-service date to 2012 and opportunities for additional export revenue. Otherwise the domestic load growth would not require this new capacity until
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP] To prevent a situation which would lead to a disruption or destabilization of the power supply. ; In drought years where demand exceeds forecasted supply. ; To maintain the generator in a state of readiness and availability. Brandon Generating Station is a natural gas-fired power station owned by Manitoba Hydro, located in Brandon, Manitoba, Canada. The station was first built to burn lignite from Saskatchewan. On 1 January 2010, Unit 5, the sole coal-fired unit, was downgraded to emergency use only, per section 16 of the Manitoba Climate Change and Emissions Reductions Act. Unit 5 was permitted to operate as a generator only under certain circumstances: The last allowance required Unit 5 to operate for 3–4 days each month at 10–15% of maximum capacity. Unit 5 stopped burning coal on August 1, 2018, and was converted to a synchronous condenser.
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP]  The Kintigh Generating Station, also known as Somerset Operating Co. LLC of the Upstate New York Power Producers is a 675-megawatt coal-fired power plant located in Somerset, New York, United States. The plant was owned by AES Corporation until bankruptcy. Its unit was launched into service in 1984. Coal is provided to the plant via the Somerset Railroad. The waste heat is dumped into Lake Ontario, resulting in a warm-water plume visible on satellite images. The plant's 625-foot smoke stack can be seen across Lake Ontario from the shores of Toronto, Pickering, Oshawa, and Ajax, Ontario. It can also be seen from points along the Niagara Escarpment, including Lockport, NY, approximately 20 miles south. Power from the plant is transferred by dual 345kV power lines on wood pylons, which run south from the plant through rural agricultural land. In Royalton, NY they split at their physical junction with the
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP] Selkirk Generating Station  Selkirk Generating Station is a natural gas-fired station owned by Manitoba Hydro. It is located just across the Red River from Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada, in the Rural Municipality of St. Clements.  Construction began in 1957, and the station went into commercial service in 1961 with two 66 MW steam turbine-generator units burning lignite coal from Saskatchewan. In 2002 it was converted to burn natural gas, at a cost of $30 million.  The station was decommissioned in 2020.
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP]
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP] List of generating stations in Manitoba  This is a list of public utility electrical generating stations in Manitoba, Canada.  Manitoba produces close to 97% of its electricity through hydropower. The most important hydroelectric development in Manitoba is the 3,955-megawatt Nelson River Hydroelectric Project. Its 5 power stations produced 27.4 terawatt-hours of electricity in 2014-2015, meeting 75.7% of the provincial demand.  Manitoba Hydro, the government-owned public utility is the main power generator in the province with 15 hydroelectric generating stations, 2 fossil-fuel plants and 4 diesel generators, for a total installed capacity of 5,701 MW.
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP] Manitoba Hydro  The Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board, operating as Manitoba Hydro, is the electric power and natural gas utility in the province of Manitoba, Canada. Founded in 1961, it is a provincial Crown Corporation, governed by the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board and the Manitoba Hydro Act. Today the company operates 15 interconnected generating stations. It has more than 527,000 electric power customers and more than 263,000 natural gas customers. Since most of the electrical energy is provided by hydroelectric power, the utility has low electricity rates. Stations in Northern Manitoba are connected by a HVDC system, the Nelson River Bipole, to customers in the south. The internal staff are members of the Canadian Union of Public Employees Local 998 while the outside workers are members of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 2034.  Manitoba Hydro headquarters in the downtown Winnipeg Manitoba Hydro Place officially opened in 2009.
In what country is Selkirk Generating Station? [SEP] List of power stations in New York  This is a list of electricity-generating power stations in New York, sorted by type and name. A more complete list can be found on the NYISO website in the planning data and reference docs section where an annual report call the Load and Capacity Data Report, or the "Gold Book" is listed. The list is located in Table III-2 of the report.<ref name="2018 GB"/>
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]   Devala is a town in the Nilgiris district of Tamil Nadu. It is situated at about 16 km from Gudalur on the Gudalur–Pandalur road. It is close to the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border, with Nilambur on the Kerala side.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]  Devalan is a village in the District of Vezirköprü, Samsun Province, Turkey.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]  Devala is a very scenic place with undulating tea estates and lush green villages. When it rains it pours here, that is the reason it is called the Cherrapunji of the south. There is no accommodation available in this little town. There are a few minuscule gold mines in and around Devala at Kaithakolly, Ponnur and Ponvayal villages. Devala has got a police station. Devala also has got many tea factories. Devala also shares its border with Kerala state (Marutha panchayath in Malappuram district)
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]  Devlethan' is a village in the District of Hocalar, Afyonkarahisar Province, Turkey.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]  Devalatti is a village in Belgaum district in the southern state of Karnataka, India.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP] Delavan, Illinois  Delavan is a city in Tazewell County, Illinois, United States. Its population was 1,689 in the 2010 census. It is a part of the Peoria, Illinois Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP] Delavan Township, Faribault County, Minnesota  Delavan Township is a township in Faribault County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 275 at the 2000 census.  Delavan Township was originally called Guthrie Township, and under the latter name was organized in 1858. It was renamed in 1872 after the city of Delavan, Minnesota.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP] Delavan, Minnesota  Delavan is a city in Faribault County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 179 at the 2010 census.
In what country is Devalan? [SEP]
In what country is Devalan? [SEP] De Wallen  De Wallen () or De Walletjes () is the largest and best known red-light district in Amsterdam. It consists of a network of alleys containing approximately 300 one-room cabins rented by prostitutes who offer their sexual services from behind a window or glass door, typically illuminated with red lights and blacklight. Window prostitution is the most visible and typical kind of red-light district sex work in Amsterdam.  De Wallen, together with the prostitution areas "Singelgebied" and "Ruysdaelkade", form the "Rosse Buurt" (red-light areas) of Amsterdam. Of these De Wallen is the oldest and largest area. It is one of the city's major tourist attractions and the government of Amsterdam is examining ways to limit tourist numbers.  The area also has a number of sex shops, sex theatres, peep shows, a sex museum, a cannabis museum, and a number of coffee shops that sell cannabis.
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]  Darnózseli is a village in Győr-Moson-Sopron county, Hungary. Darnózseli (1600 inhabitants) is located in the center of Szigetköz, which is Hungary’s biggest island. It is enclosed by the Old Danube and the Moson Danube. In Darnózseli, there is a chapel which was constructed in 1787. At that time, the independent parsonage was found. The sanctuary has been restored and can nowadays be visited on the cemetery grounds. The present neoclassical church was built in 1930. The scape of the village is formed by traditional Hungarian residential houses. Another attraction are some 100-year-old oak trees (“Millennium Oaks”), which have been planted in order to honor the 1000th anniversary of the conquest of Hungary. In the Zseli forest, there is a monument to commemorate the Napoleonic battles. Some Germans and Austrians have already settled in Darnózseli.
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]  The Bodrog is a river in eastern Slovakia and north-eastern Hungary. It is a tributary to the river Tisza. The Bodrog is formed by the confluence of the rivers Ondava and Latorica near Zemplín in eastern Slovakia. It crosses the Slovak–Hungarian border at the village of Felsőberecki (near Sátoraljaújhely) in Hungary, and Streda nad Bodrogom in Slovakia, where it is also the lowest point in Slovakia (94.3 m AMSL), and continues its flow through the Hungarian county Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén, until it meets the river Tisza, in Tokaj. A town along its course is Sárospatak, in Hungary. Its length is 67 km (15 in Slovakia, 52 in Hungary). Its watershed area is 13,579 km2 of which 972 km2 is in Hungary. The river is rich in fish.
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]  The Tisza is navigable for smaller vessels right up to Dombrád near the north-eastern frontier of the country. In the Trans-Tisza Region (east of the river) extensive areas are irrigated by its water.
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]  Magyarcsanád (Cenadul Unguresc; Чанад / Čanad) a multi-ethnic village located in Csongrád (county), southeast Hungary near the Mureş River (Maros). The Maros is a border-river here between southern Hungary and northern Romania. The population is mainly Hungarian, but many Romanians, Serbians and Romani people are also living here. Magyarcsanád has four churches: a Romanian Orthodox, a Serbian Orthodox, a Calvinist and a Roman Catholic. The village has an own outskirt called Bökény directly near the Maros. Here is a tumulus (kunhalom) in which archeological artifacts were found. Magyarcsanád has a partner-settlement Comloşu Mare (Nagykomlós) in Timiș County (Temes). An old stone cross was erected near Magyarcsanád in the Middle Ages. The cross still stands. There is a small isle called in Hungarian "Senki szigete" (in English: Nobody's Isle) some kilometers eastward from Magyarcsanád on the border river Mureş. The isle is inhabited by Phalacrocoracidae (Phalacrocorax carbo).
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]  The Danube runs through several countries, and in Hungary is known as the Duna.
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP]
In what country is Dârmocsa River? [SEP] The Hatchet (novel)  The Hatchet (orig. Romanian: "Baltagul") is a 1930 crime novel that was written by Mihail Sadoveanu.   The novel's main character is Vitoria Lipan, the wife of a shepherd living in the Moldavian village Măgura Tarcăului. Vitoria has a premonition her husband Nechifor, who has gone to the town Dorna to buy more sheep, has died. The local priest and the county's prefect dismiss her premonition but for Vitoria, archaic symbols and superstitions are more trustworthy than the books of the priests or the science of the government officials. She calls home her son Gheorghiță, who is on business in Jijia village, where he waited for news from his father to pay some debts. Vitoria and Gheorghiță embark on a mythical journey, at the end of which they find Nechifor's dead body and take their revenge on the thieves who killed him. The determined and clever Vitoria Lipan is a unique female character in the Romanian traditionalist novel, despite the female stereotypes.  The Hatchet is considered Sadoveanu's greatest work and a creative adaptation of themes from the famous Romanian ballad Miorița, which inspired the novel. The novel uses the ballad's epic structure, and the conflict between the three villagers and Vitoria's perseverance in the search for her dead husband. The author was also inspired by other popular, mid-19th-century ballads by Vasile Alecsandri; "Șalga", from which comes the theme of the courageous village woman who searches for groups of thieves and takes revenge for their crimes – and "Dolca", from which the author took the link between humans and nature.  The Hatchet is considered a monograph of a traditional Romanian village because it shows the aspects of the village typology with Romanian traditions and superstitions; baptism, wedding, and funeral. The title is based on the weapon that makes both criminals confess but also refers to the weapon with which the dead shepherd was murdered. The novel is divided into 16 chapters. It was adapted into an eponymous movie, "Baltagul", which was directed by Mircea Mureșan and premiered in October 1969; Vitoria Lipan was played by Margarita Lozano.
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]  Gori Balmak (, also Romanized as Gorī Balmak) is a village in Jayedar Rural District, in the Central District of Pol-e Dokhtar County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 303, in 55 families.
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]  Gori City Hall (გორის მერია, goris meria) is an administrative building of Gori, Georgia, a city in eastern Georgia, which serves as the regional capital of Shida Kartli.
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]  Gori is a strategic city in central Georgia, about 25 km from Tskhinvali. Gori is a major military installation and transportation hub in Georgia. 75 tanks and armored personnel carriers (a third of the Georgian military's arsenal) were assembled near Gori on 7 August. Around 6:27 AM on 9 August 2008, Reuters reported that two Russian fighters had bombed a Georgian artillery position about 10 km north of Gori. On 9 August, a Russian air attack targeted military barracks in Gori. In the resulting explosion, besides the base, several apartment buildings and a school were also damaged. The Georgian government reported that 60 civilians were killed when bombs hit the apartment buildings. According to the Russian media, Russian aircraft dropped three bombs on an armament depot, and the façade of one of the adjacent 5-story apartment buildings suffered damage as a result of exploding ammunition from the depot. Russian aircraft had bombed at least five Georgian cities by 9 August.
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]  In the 2008 Russo-Georgian War, the town came under aerial attack by the Russian Air Force from the outset of the conflict. Military targets and residential districts of Gori were hit by the airstrikes, resulting in civilian injuries and deaths. Human Rights Watch (HRW) claimed that Russian forces had indiscriminately deployed cluster bombs in civilian areas around Gori. According to HRW, on August 12 Russian forces dropped cluster bombs in the center of Gori, killing 11 civilians and wounding dozens more. Russian military officials deny using cluster munitions in the conflict, calling the HRW assertion "slanderous" and questioning the HRW's objectivity. Numerous unexploded
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]  =
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP] Gori Balmak  Gori Balmak (, also Romanized as Gorī Balmak) is a village in Jayedar Rural District, in the Central District of Pol-e Dokhtar County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 303, in 55 families.
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP]
In what country is Gori Balmak? [SEP] Bagh-e Sofla, Lorestan  Bagh-e Sofla (, also Romanized as Bāgh-e Soflá; also known as Bāgh-e Jāydar-e Soflá and Bāgh) is a village in Jayedar Rural District, in the Central District of Pol-e Dokhtar County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 215, in 41 families.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP]  The district is divided into three sub-districts (tambons), which are further subdivided into 36 villages (mubans). There are no municipal (thesaban) areas, and a further three ambon administrative organizations (TAO).
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP]  Wiang Kao (เวียงเก่า, ) is a district (amphoe) of Khon Kaen Province, northeastern Thailand.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP]  Neighboring districts are (from the north clockwise) Nong Na Kham, Phu Wiang, Chum Phae, and Si Chomphu. The district is in the Phu Wiang Mountains, parts of it in Phu Wiang National Park. In 1976 dinosaur fossils were discovered in the district. Since 2001 the discovery sites are accessible in the Phu Wiang Dinosaur Museum.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP]  The major district (king amphoe) was created by splitting three tambons from Phu Wiang District. Its creation became effective on 1 May 2006. On 15 May 2007, all 81 minor districts were upgraded to full districts. With publication in the Royal Gazette on 24 August the upgrade became official.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP]  Neighboring districts are (from the south clockwise) Thoeng, Khun Tan, Chiang Khong of Chiang Rai Province. To the east lies Bokeo Province of Laos. Phu Chi Fa, 1,442 m high, lies at the border with Thoeng District.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP] Wiang Kao district  Wiang Kao (, ) is a district ("amphoe") of Khon Kaen province, northeastern Thailand.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP] Phu Wiang district  Phu Wiang (, ) is a district ("amphoe") in the northwestern part of Khon Kaen province, northeastern Thailand.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP] Phu Wiang Dinosaur Museum  Phu Wiang Dinosaur Museum () is a geological museum mainly exhibiting fossils. It is under the administration of the Department of Mineral Resources, Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, of the Royal Thai Government, and situated in the Khok Sanambin public area in Tambon Nai Muang, Wiang Kao district, Khon Kaen province in the northeastern region of Thailand. The museum was constructed with a budget from the Tourism Authority of Thailand under the supervision of the Department of Mineral Resources and comprises an area of . It has been open to the public since 2009.
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP] Wiang  "Wiang" is a Tai word for "fortified settlement" or "walled town, city" of Austroasiatic origin, from Proto-Austroasiatic "*wa(a)ŋ". This toponymic element forms part of the names of certain ancient inhabited places located in an area stretching across Northern Thailand and Laos:
In what country is Wiang Kao? [SEP] Paleontology in Thailand  Paleontology began as a subject of academic interest in Thailand in the early twentieth century, mainly conducted by foreign researchers working with the Royal Department of Mines and Geology, the precursor of the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR). Most early paleontological research was the by-product of mineral exploration for the country's developing mining industry.  The first scientifically described fossil from Thailand was that of the bivalve "Posidonomya becheri siamensis" from Ban Khuan Dinso in Phatthalung Province, made by F. R. Cowper Reed in 1920. Official cataloging of fossils began two years later, and received contributions by Western paleontologists and geologists. Systematic surveys and studies were later begun by Japanese researchers led by Teiichi Kobayashi, who published their findings on trilobites in Tarutao Island (the oldest fossils found in the country) in 1957. Over the following decades, Japanese and German researchers conducted paleontological research as part of geological surveys throughout the country.  Dinosaur fossils were first discovered in the country in 1973, during uranium surveys in Phu Wiang (now in Wiang Kao District) in Khon Kaen Province, initiating a wave of dinosaur research by Thai and French academics and a rise in public interest in the field. Several new dinosaur species have since been described from several sites in the country's Northeast, and paleontology museums have been established. Continued research is undertaken mainly by the DMR and some universities, as well as other public and private institutions.
In what country is Francis? [SEP] The island of St. François Atoll ; Saint Francis Hospital & Medical Center in Hartford, CT, United States. ; St. Francis de Sales Broadcast Center in Batangas City, Philippines houses two radio stations under the Catholic Media Network: 99.1 Spirit FM and ALFM 95.9 Radyo Totoo ; St. Francis de Sales Roman Catholic Church ; St. Francis de Sales Roman Catholic Church (Charlestown, Mass.) ; St. Francis de Sales Roman Catholic Church, Morgantown, WV, United States
In what country is Francis? [SEP]  Pope Francis (Franciscus; Francesco; Francisco; born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, 17 December 1936) is the head of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State since 2013. Francis is the first pope to be a member of the Society of Jesus, the first from the Americas, the first from the Southern Hemisphere, and the first pope from outside Europe since Gregory III, a Syrian who reigned in the 8th century. Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Bergoglio worked for a time as a bouncer and a janitor as a young man before training to be a chemist and working as a technician in a food science laboratory. After recovering from a severe illness, he
In what country is Francis? [SEP]  The Franciscan Missionaries of Mary (F.M.M.) were founded in 1877 in Ootacamund, India by Hélène de Chappotin de Neuville. As of 2016, there are almost 8,300 sisters in 75 countries, including Canada and England and the United States, where they sponsor the Cardinal Hayes Home in Millbrook, New York, for developmentally challenged individuals. There are five communities of FMM in Scotland.
In what country is Francis? [SEP]  Argentina, a country with a white majority and with a strong European influence, is also home to numerous communities of Aborigines who, for the most part, live in very poor conditions. She began her humanitarian labour among them providing shelter, and nutritional, medical, educational and other assistance with her own funds and through donations, living in a small recreational vehicle received as a gift. She established the Saint Francis of Assisi Home for Pilgrims in 1978, extending the reach of her efforts to the mentally handicapped and homeless AIDS victims, and growing to serve an average of 7,000 hot meals daily. An encounter with the Argentine Ambassador in Russia also led to a stay
In what country is Francis? [SEP]  The headquarters of the 1.2-billion strong Catholic Church, the State of Vatican City (see also Holy See), is an enclave within the city of Rome and, thus, the Italian territory. The Church's world leader, the Pope, is the Bishop of Rome, hence the special relationship between Italians and the Church—and the latter's entanglement with Italian politics (see Lateran Treaty and the section below on religion and politics). The current Pope is Francis, born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, who, before his election in 2013, is from Argentina and was the Archbishop of Buenos Aires from 1998 to his installation. Francis is the third non-Italian Pope in
In what country is Francis? [SEP] List of pastoral visits of Pope Francis  This is a list of pastoral visits of Pope Francis. His visit to the Philippines in January 2015 included the largest papal event in history with around 6–7 million attendees in his final Mass at Manila, surpassing the then-largest papal event at World Youth Day 1995 in the same venue twenty years earlier.
In what country is Francis? [SEP] Pope Francis  Pope Francis (; ; ; born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, 17 December 1936) is the head of the Catholic Church. He has been the bishop of Rome and sovereign of the Vatican City State since 13 March 2013. Francis is the first pope to be a member of the Society of Jesus, the first from the Americas, the first from the Southern Hemisphere, and the first pope from outside Europe since Gregory III, a Syrian who reigned in the 8th century.  Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Bergoglio worked for a time as a bouncer and a janitor as a young man before training to be a chemist and working as a technician in a food science laboratory. After recovering from a severe illness, he was inspired to join the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) in 1958. He was ordained a Catholic priest in 1969, and from 1973 to 1979 was the Jesuit provincial superior in Argentina. He became the Archbishop of Buenos Aires in 1998 and was created a cardinal in 2001 by Pope John Paul II. He led the Argentine Church during the December 2001 riots in Argentina. The administrations of Néstor Kirchner and Cristina Fernández de Kirchner considered him to be a political rival. Following the resignation of Pope Benedict XVI on 28 February 2013, a papal conclave elected Bergoglio as his successor on 13 March. He chose Francis as his papal name in honor of Saint Francis of Assisi. Throughout his public life, Francis has been noted for his humility, emphasis on God's mercy, international visibility as pope, concern for the poor, and commitment to . He is credited with having a less formal approach to the papacy than his predecessors, for instance choosing to reside in the Domus Sanctae Marthae guesthouse rather than in the papal apartments of the Apostolic Palace used by previous popes.  Francis maintains the views of the church regarding the ordination of women as priests, but has initiated dialogue on the possibility of deaconesses and has made women full members of dicasteries in the Roman Curia. He maintains that the church should be more open and welcoming for members of the LGBT community. Francis is an outspoken critic of unbridled capitalism and free market economics, consumerism, and overdevelopment; he advocates taking action on climate change, a focus of his papacy with the promulgation of "Laudato si'". In international diplomacy, he helped to restore full diplomatic relations between the United States and Cuba, supported the cause of refugees during the European and Central American migrant crises, and made a deal with the People's Republic of China to define how much influence the nation has in appointing their Catholic bishops. He has faced criticism from theological conservatives on many questions, especially what some interpret as his suggestion in a footnote of "Amoris Laetitia" that divorced and remarried Catholics may be admitted to receive the Eucharist.
In what country is Francis? [SEP] Francis (given name)  Francis is an English given name of Latin origin.  Francis is a name that has many derivatives in most European languages. The other version of the name in English is Frances, and (less commonly) Francine. (For most speakers, Francis and Frances are homophones or near homophones; a popular mnemonic for the spelling is "i for him and e for her".) The name Frank is a common diminutive for Francis, as is Frannie for Frances. Less common are the diminutives Fritz for Francis, and Franny and Fran for either Francis or Frances.
In what country is Francis? [SEP] Connie Francis  Concetta Rosa Maria Franconero (born December 12, 1937), known professionally as Connie Francis, is an American pop singer, actress, and top-charting female vocalist of the late 1950s and early 1960s. Called the “First Lady of Rock & Roll” in one headline of a marginal publication, she is estimated to have sold more than 100 million records worldwide.  In 1960, Francis was recognized as the most successful female artist in Germany, Japan, England, Italy, Australia and in every other country where records were purchased. She was the first woman in history to reach No. 1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100, just one of her other 53 career hits.
In what country is Francis? [SEP] God's Own Country (2017 film)  God's Own Country is a 2017 British romantic drama film written and directed by Francis Lee in his feature directorial debut. The film stars Josh O'Connor and Alec Secăreanu. The plot follows a young sheep farmer in Yorkshire whose life is transformed by a Romanian migrant worker.  Upon release, the film received widespread acclaim from critics, who praised the performances (particularly O'Connor's) and story, as well as commending it as a promising start for Lee. It was the only UK-based production to feature in the world drama category at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the world cinema directing award.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]  Łazy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szczutowo, within Sierpc County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]  Sierpc County (powiat sierpecki) is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Masovian Voivodeship, east-central Poland. It came into being on 1 January 1999 as a result of the Polish local government reforms passed in 1998. Its administrative seat and only town is Sierpc, which lies 117 km north-west of Warsaw. The county covers an area of 852.89 km2. As of 2019 its total population is 52,077, out of which the population of Sierpc is 17,994, and the rural population is 34,083.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]  Sierpc (Polish: ) is a town in north-central Poland, in the north-west part of the Masovian Voivodeship, about 125 km northwest of Warsaw. It is the capital of Sierpc County. Its population is 18,791 (2006). It is located near the national road No 10, which connects Warsaw and Toruń. Sierpc is a rail junction of local importance, where two lines cross: Kutno - Brodnica and Nasielsk - Toruń.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]  Łazy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szydłowiec, within Szydłowiec County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 10 km south of Szydłowiec and 120 km south of Warsaw. The village has a population of 411.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]  Łazy (Лази, Lazy) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Radymno, within Jarosław County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine. It lies approximately 6 km north-east of Radymno, 14 km east of Jarosław, and 62 km east of the regional capital Rzeszów. The village has a population of 1,100.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP] Łazy, Sierpc County  Łazy is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szczutowo, within Sierpc County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP]
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP] Łazy (disambiguation)  Łazy is a town in Silesian Voivodeship, southern Poland. The name is cultural in origin and commonly found in Slavic languages denoting an arable area obtained by slash-and-burn technique.  Łazy may also refer to the following places:
In what country is Łazy, Sierpc County? [SEP] Gmina Szczutowo  Gmina Szczutowo is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Sierpc County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. Its seat is the village of Szczutowo, which lies approximately 11 kilometres (7 mi) north-west of Sierpc and 125 km (78 mi) north-west of Warsaw.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 4,417.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]  Khishig-Öndör (Хишиг-Өндөр) is a sum (district) of Bulgan Province in northern Mongolia. It is located approximately 160 miles west of Ulaanbataar. In 2009, its population was 3,171.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]  Bor-Öndör (Бор-Өндөр) is a city in Khentii Province in eastern Mongolia. It is situated in the Darkhan sum (district), but is administrated separately.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]  Fluorspar deposits were surveyed by Soviet geologists in the 1950s. In 1973, the Soviet-Mongolian (currently Russian-Mongolian) company was created, with 49% of shares held by the Soviet (now Russian) government and 51% by the Mongolian government. The mine, open pit mine, mineral processing plant and worker's housing were built by the Soviets. All production during that time was exported to the Soviet Union.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]  The Chandmani-Öndör sum was founded, together with the whole Khövsgöl aimag, in 1931. In 1933, it had about 2,300 inhabitants in 816 households, and about 42,000 heads of livestock. In 1956 it was joined with Tsagaan-Üür, but became separate again in 1959. From 1952 to 1990, Chandmani-Öndör was the seat of the Leninii aldar negdel.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]  The city's economy is dominated by Fluorspar mining and fluorspar concentrate production. The underground mine, open pit and mineral processing plant, which is the only mineral processing plant in the country, are operated by the Mongolrostsvetmet JV company. All fluorspar products are exported to Russia, Ukraine, and other countries by rail. In 2007 there were 39,218 heads of livestock in Bor-Öndör. However, they do not have enough pasture land due to mining.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP] Bulgan Province  Bulgan () is one of the 21 aimags (provinces) of Mongolia, located in northern Mongolia. Its capital is also named Bulgan.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP] Districts of Mongolia  A district (, , , ; "arrow"), is a second level administrative subdivision of Mongolia. The 21 Provinces of Mongolia are divided into 331 districts.  On average, each district administers a territory of with about 5,000 inhabitants, primarily nomadic herders. Its total revenue is 120 million Tögrög, 90% of which comes from national subsidies.  Each district is again subdivided into "bags" (brigades; sometimes spelled "baghs"<ref name="mongol" />). Most bags are of an entirely virtual nature. Their purpose is to sort the families of nomads in the district into groups, without a permanent human settlement.  Officially, and occasionally on maps, many district seats (sum centers) bear a name different from that of the district. However, in practice the district seat (sum center) is most often referred to under the name of the district, to the point of the official name of the district seat (sum center) being unknown even to the locals.
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP] Telephone numbers in Mongolia   National Significant Numbers (NSN): eight digits  Format:
In what country is Khishig-Öndör? [SEP]
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]  Gaffarlar is a village in the District of Koçarlı, Aydın Province, Turkey. As of 2010 it had a population of 374 people.
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]  Gaffarlı is a village in the District of Göynücek, Amasya Province, Turkey.
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]  Gaziosmanpaşa (old name: Taşlıtarla) is a developing working class municipality (belediye) and district of Istanbul, Turkey, on its European side. With a population of 400,000 plus, it is one of the most populous districts. In 2009 Gaziosmanpaşa district was divided into three neighborhoods: Gaziosmanpaşa, the central; Sultangazi, the northern part; and Arnavutköy, the northernmost part. Esenler and Bayrampaşa are at west, Sultangazi is at north and Eyüp is at south and east of district. It was formed from parts of Eyüp and Çatalca districts in 1963.
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]  Külaflı is a suburb of Karaköprü district that located in Şanlıurfa Province of Turkey.
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]  Halfeli (Xelfelî, previously in Armenian: Վանքատեղ, romanized: Vank’ategh,) is a belde (town) in the central district (Iğdır) of Iğdır Province, Turkey. The towns economy relies on agriculture. Due to a climate milder than most other Eastern Anatolian towns, it has a variety of crops including cotton. Another revenue of the town is livestock trading. In the local elections of March 2019, Hasan Safa from the Peoples' Democratic Party (HDP) was elected mayor. However, in March 2020 Safa was dismissed from his post due to alleged links to terrorism. Due to regulations introduced in September 2016, mayors suspended by terror related charges are not to be replaced by someone elected by the municipal council. Lütfullah Göktaş, the Kaymakam from Karakoyunlu was appointed as a trustee instead.
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP]
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP] (Gebze, Darıca, Çayırova, Dilovası, Şekerpınar, and Tavşancıl) and 22 villages (Ahatlı, Balçık, Cumaköy, Çerkeşli, Demirciler, Denizli, Duraklı, Elbizli, Eskihisar, Hatipler, Kadıllı, Kargalı, Köseler, Mollafenari, Muallimköy, Mudarlı, Ovacık, Pelitli, Tavşanlı, Tepecik, Tepemanayır (Tepepanayır), and Yağcılar). The northern terminus of Osman Gazi Bridge falls within this area; the construction — having a total length of 4 kilometers (with a 1,688-meter main span) — bridges the Sea of Marmara from Kababurun to Dilburnu. Gebze is twinned with: In November 2014, the Garowe Municipality in northeastern Somalia announced that it was slated to meet with the Gebze Municipality in order to finalize a sister
In what country is Gaffarlı? [SEP] (rural exodus) and immigration from the city of Ankara. Gölbaşı, Ankara Gölbaşı is a town and district of the Ankara Province in the Central Anatolia region of Turkey, south of the city of Ankara. According to a 2010 census, the population of the district is 95,109, 93,852 of whom live in the town of Gölbaşı. Although the lakes are polluted and infested with mosquitoes, the picnic areas and lakeside restaurants of Gölbaşı serve as a popular retreat from the city for the people of Ankara. A number of government departments have accommodations here, and the town is slowly but surely
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]  Crow Harbour is a Canadian unincorporated community in Charlotte County, New Brunswick.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]  Beaver Harbour is a community on the Fundy shore of New Brunswick, Canada. Most of the community forms the Local service district of Beaver Harbour, which was established in 1971. It is also a census subdivision of Census Canada. Since the formation of the LSD, the community has expanded past the original boundaries into the LSD of the parish of Pennfield. In 1866 it had about 30 resident families, and grew to a population of 150 by 1871, the 500 in 1898. As of 2016, the population was 277. It is the site of the Lighthouse Point Light, originally built in 1875 and subsequently rebuilt. It is a fiberglass tapered cylindrical tower with balcony and lantern.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]  Heron Island is a formerly inhabited 7.15 km long island in Chaleur Bay, located approximately 4 km from New Mills, New Brunswick and across from Carleton-sur-Mer, Quebec. It is accessible only at high tide from a wharf on the south side of the island. Today the island has been declared a provincial reserve and is under the care of the New Brunswick government. There is a native traditional burial ground near the northwest end of the island.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]  Blacks Harbour (2016 population: 894) is an incorporated village in New Brunswick, Canada. It is in a harbour of the same name opening onto the Bay of Fundy. It is 15 kilometres southeast of the town of St. George, 3 kilometres west of Beaver Harbour and 56 kilometres east from the town of St. Stephen on Route 176. Blacks Harbours' exact origin is unknown, possibly an early family name. Post office dates from 1889. Blacks Harbour is the northern terminus for the year-round Blacks Harbour to Grand Manan Island Ferry. Fishing has been a vital part of its existence for over 200 years. Connors Brothers Limited was founded in 1885 at Blacks Harbour, now a major international processor of all types of seafood. The company is also a major New Brunswick employer.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]  Saint John Harbour (Saint-Jean-Havre) is a provincial electoral district for the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, Canada. It was represented from its creation for the 1995 election until October 13, 2005 by Elizabeth Weir, the leader of the New Democratic Party of New Brunswick from 1988 to September 25, 2005. Liberal Ed Doherty had then taken the spot by winning a by-election on November 14, 2005 and was re-elected in the 2006 general election. It is currently represented by PC Arlene Dunn who was first elected in the 2020 general election. Prior to the New Brunswick electoral redistribution of 1994, the district had moderately different boundaries. In that year it was split in two, with part being merged with Saint John South to form this current Saint John Harbour district, while the other half of the former Harbour district became a part of Saint John Lancaster. The riding name refers to Saint John Harbour, which the district contains.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP] Crow Harbour, New Brunswick  Crow Harbour is a Canadian unincorporated community in Charlotte County, New Brunswick.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP] Blacks Harbour, New Brunswick  Blacks Harbour (2021 population: 907) is an incorporated village in New Brunswick, Canada. It is in a harbour of the same name opening onto the Bay of Fundy. It is 15 kilometres southeast of the town of St. George, 3 kilometres west of Beaver Harbour and 56 kilometres east from the town of St. Stephen on Route 176.  Blacks Harbours' exact origin is unknown, possibly an early family name. Post office dates from 1889.  Blacks Harbour is the northern terminus for the year-round Blacks Harbour to Grand Manan Island Ferry operated by Coastal Transport  Fishing has been a vital part of its existence for over 200 years. Connors Brothers Limited was founded in 1885 at Blacks Harbour, now a major international processor of all types of seafood. The company is also a major New Brunswick employer.
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP]
In what country is Crow Harbour, New Brunswick? [SEP] Beaver Harbour, New Brunswick  Beaver Harbour is a community on the Fundy shore of New Brunswick, Canada.  Most of the community forms the Local service district of Beaver Harbour, which was established in 1971. It is also a census subdivision of Census Canada. Since the formation of the LSD, the community has expanded past the original boundaries into the LSD of the parish of Pennfield.  In 1866 it had about 30 resident families, and grew to a population of 150 by 1871, the 500 in 1898. As of 2021, the population was 291.<ref name="population"/>  It is the site of the Lighthouse Point Light, originally built in 1875 and subsequently rebuilt. It is a fiberglass tapered cylindrical tower with balcony and lantern.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]  Łodygowo (Lodigowen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Biała Piska, within Pisz County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km south-east of Biała Piska, 26 km east of Pisz, and 114 km east of the regional capital Olsztyn. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (East Prussia). The village has a population of 100.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]  Łodygowo (Groß Ludwigsdorf) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kisielice, within Iława County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 6 km west of Kisielice, 26 km west of Iława, and 89 km west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]  Pielgrzymowo (Pilgramsdorf) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Płoskinia, within Braniewo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north-east of Płoskinia, 15 km south-east of Braniewo, and 65 km north-west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]  Drozdowo (Drosdowen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Orzysz, within Pisz County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 12 km north-west of Orzysz, 26 km north of Pisz, and 85 km east of the regional capital Olsztyn. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (East Prussia).
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]  Głodowo (Glodowen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ruciane-Nida, within Pisz County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 12 km north-east of Ruciane-Nida, 15 km north-west of Pisz, and 77 km east of the regional capital Olsztyn. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (East Prussia). The village has a population of 70.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP] Łodygowo, Pisz County  Łodygowo () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Biała Piska, within Pisz County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately south-east of Biała Piska, east of Pisz, and east of the regional capital Olsztyn. It is located in the historic region of Masuria.  The village has a population of 100.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP] Łodygowo, Iława County  Łodygowo () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kisielice, within Iława County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately west of Kisielice, west of Iława, and west of the regional capital Olsztyn.
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]
In what country is Łodygowo, Pisz County? [SEP]
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]  Pinilla to go to the Ministry of Women and another for Luis Alva Castro go to the Ministry of Defense of Peru, but also speculated that Mercedes Cabanillas take that position. However, on 19 December were announced ministerial changes and changes were 6, 2 rotations and four new ministers, who swore on 20 December 2007. In addition, the 13 May 2008, García created the Ministry of Environment, being its first holder, Antonio Brack Egg. Oath on 16 May of that year, during the V EU-LAC Summit. After the Bagua Scandal in the Amazon, Yehude Simon resigned with the whole cabinet. President of
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]  Sixteen members of the ministerial cabinet were inaugurated on 9 November. Arce's cabinet comprises thirteen men and four women. A Minister of Energy remained unappointed until 13 November when the position was merged with that of Minister of Hydrocarbons. Both Ministries are managed by Franklin Molina Ortiz. Bolivian indigenous politician Felipe Quispe criticized Arce for creating a cabinet that did not contain any indigenous members. However, the addition of Sabina Orellana, who is Quechua, to head the Ministry of Cultures would mean that there would be one indigenous representative. By decree on 20 November, Arce reinstated the Ministry of Cultures
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]  The cabinet of Jeanine Áñez constituted the 220th and 221st cabinets of the Plurinational State of Bolivia. It was initially formed on 13 November 2019, a day after Jeanine Áñez was sworn-in as the 66th president of Bolivia following the 2019 political crisis, in which the ruling Movement for Socialism government resigned. A second cabinet was formed on 28 January 2020 with all but three ministers being ratified in their positions. The cabinet suffered numerous structural changes and was noted for its high turnover rate. In just under a year, thirty-seven individuals occupied twenty ministerial portfolios with three ministries being abolished entirely by the end of Áñez's mandate. Political analyst Marcelo Silva attributed the administration's instability to the fact that "Jeanine Áñez didn't imagine, not even in the best of scenarios, becoming president. There is a hint of improvisation, because there was no methodical plan for organizing a government". Despite assurances that all ministers had been inaugurated in a non-partisan capacity, multiple had political and personal links with Rubén Costas, the leader of Áñez's Democrat Social Movement, and Luis Fernando Camacho, a civic leader prominent in the protests which preceded Áñez's assumption to office.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]  Peñaranda's second cabinet was formed on 11 November 1940 and was the 103rd national cabinet of Bolivia. With the resignation of Arguedas, the offices he held were redistributed to different ministers. In this and future cabinets, the Office of Immigration would be held by the Ministry of Government and the Office of Colonization by the Ministry of Defense. The Ministry of Mining and Petrol was assigned to the new Minister of Agriculture and Irrigation, Edmundo Vásquez. The Ministries of Propaganda and Industry and Commerce were discontinued. As was the Ministry of Hygiene, with the Ministry of Health falling under the purview of the Ministry of Work and Social Security. Health Minister Abelardo Ibáñez Benavente also became Minister of Work.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]  According to Arce, the council of ministers accompanying him would be "an austere government with the priority of reactivating the economy and examining the health crisis". The cabinet has been noted for the low profile of its appointed members, predominantly made up of low-level officials and academics who, despite their youth, have long management experience. Political scientist Helena Argirakis affirms that "certain fundamental features that characterize the MAS" are maintained in this cabinet, while at the same time it balances "experience and innovation, the country's regional diversity and professional, political, union and social training". Analysts also highlighted the distance between the appointees and former president and MAS leader Evo Morales. Among the ministers, only Minister of Defense Edmundo Novillo had any long history within the ranks of MAS, being president of the Chamber of Deputies and governor of Cochabamba. These factors reaffirmed Arce's statement that Morales would have no direct participation in his administration.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP] Erich Cabinet  Rafael Erich's cabinet was the sixth Government of Republic of Finland. The cabinet's time period was March 15, 1920 – April 9, 1921. It was a minority government.  Erich's cabinet's main task was to conclude the official peace treaty with Soviet Russia. The treaty was signed in Tartu, Estonia, on October 14, 1920. Soviet Russia recognized Finland's independence officially and its frontier between the two countries.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP] Rafael Erich  Rafael Waldemar Erich (10 June 1879 in Turku – 19 February 1946 in Helsinki) was a Finnish politician from the National Coalition Party, Professor, diplomat, and Prime Minister of Finland.  The sixth cabinet of the Republic of Finland, Erich's cabinet, lasted from 15 March 1920 to 9 April 1921 for a total of 391 days.  The most important function and accomplishment of Erich's cabinet was a peace treaty with the Russian SFSR. The peace treaty was made in Tartu, Estonia, on 14 October 1920. This was the time when the Russian SFSR finally completely recognised Finland's independence.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP] Bruno Jalander  Bruno Jalander (28 August 1872 – 14 December 1966) was a Finnish military officer who served as minister of war in the post-World War I period between 1920 and 1923.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP] Juho Vennola  Juho Heikki Vennola (originally Karhu, 19 June 1872 – 3 December 1938) was Professor of National Economics at the University of Helsinki, a member of the Parliament of Finland, and a politician from the National Progressive Party, who served as Prime Minister of Finland twice.  Vennola's first government was from 15 August 1919 to 15 March 1920 and his second one was from 9 April 1921 to 2 June 1922. He was also acting Prime Minister in the second government of Pehr Evind Svinhufvud from 18 February to 21 March 1931. He also served as Deputy Minister of Finance (1918–1919), Minister of Trade and Industry (1919), Minister of Foreign Affairs (1922–1924) and Minister of Finance (1930–1931).  Vennola, who was born in Oulu, served as a member of the parliament from 1919 to 1930 and was a member of the Tartu Board of Peace in 1920. He died in Helsinki, aged 66.
In what country is Rafael Erich's cabinet? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP] 1) Bajus ; 2) Beugin ; 3) Bruay-la-Buissière ; 4) Caucourt ; 5) La Comté ; 6) Estrée-Cauchy ; 7) Fresnicourt-le-Dolmen ; 8) Gauchin-Légal ; 9) Hermin ; 10) Houdain ; 11) Maisnil-lès-Ruitz ; 12) Rebreuve-Ranchicourt The Canton of Bruay-la-Buissière is one of the 39 cantons of the Pas-de-Calais department, in northern France. At the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015, the canton was expanded from 1 to 12 communes. It consists of the following communes:
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]  A farming village with a little light industry situated in the upper valley of the river Yèvre, some 13 mi east of Bourges at the junction of the D10, D12, D43 and the D71 roads.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]  Baugy is a commune in the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region of central France. On 1 January 2019, the former communes Laverdines and Saligny-le-Vif were merged into Baugy.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]  The canton of Belley is one of the cantons of France and is located in the department of Ain and in the region of Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]  The canton is organized around Bapaume in the arrondissement of Arras.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP] Canton of Baugy  The Canton of Baugy is a former canton in the Cher département and in the Centre region of France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation effective in March 2015. It consisted of 17 communes, It had 11,526 inhabitants in 2012.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP] Montreux  Montreux (, , ; ) is a Swiss municipality and town on the shoreline of Lake Geneva at the foot of the Alps. It belongs to the district of Riviera-Pays-d'Enhaut in the canton of Vaud in Switzerland, and has a population of approximately 26,433, with about 85,000 in the agglomeration Vevey-Montreux as 2019.  Located in the centre of a region named "Riviera" (), Montreux has been an important tourist destination since the 19th century due to its mild climate. The region includes numerous Belle Époque palaces and hotels near the shores of Lake Geneva. Montreux railway station is a stop on the Simplon Railway and is a mountain railway hub.
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Baugy? [SEP] Baugy, Cher  Baugy () is a commune in the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region of central France. On 1 January 2019, the former communes Laverdines and Saligny-le-Vif were merged into Baugy.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP]  Anjoma is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Ambalavao, which is a part of Haute Matsiatra Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,000 in 2001 commune census. Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 98% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 1% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are beans, maize and cassava. Services provide employment for 1% of the population.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] As of 28 April 2013
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] As of 11 May 2012
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP]  The amusement park is a member of the International Association of Amusement Parks and Attractions.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP]  Anjoma Nandihizana is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Manandriana, which is a part of Amoron'i Mania Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,000 in 2001 commune census. Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. Farming and raising livestock provides employment for 49.9% and 49.9% of the working population. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are sweet potatoes and potatoes. Services provide employment for 0.2% of the population.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] Anjoma Ramartina  Anjoma Ramartina is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Mandoto, which is a part of Vakinankaratra Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 15,000 in 2001 commune census.<ref name="pop"/> It is about an hour's drive south of Antananarivo. Anjoma Ramartina sits atop some of the world's largest rose quartz deposits.  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 60% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 39.5% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are maize and bambara groundnut. Industry provides employment for 0.5% of the population.  Most homes in Anjoma Ramartina have no electricity, no running water, no phone or network connections. Malnutrition is common. According to the World Bank, around 80% of those outside Madagascar's cities live below the $1.90-a-day poverty line. Health researchers found around half of parents in Anjoma Ramartina had lost at least one infant child to illness or hunger.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] Anjoma Nandihizana  Anjoma Nandihizana is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Manandriana, which is a part of Amoron'i Mania Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,000 in 2001 commune census.<ref name="pop"/>  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. Farming and raising livestock provides employment for 49.9% and 49.9% of the working population. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are sweet potatoes and potatoes. Services provide employment for 0.2% of the population.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] Anjoma  Anjoma is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Ambalavao, which is a part of Haute Matsiatra Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 13,000 in 2001 commune census.<ref name="pop"/>  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 98% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 1% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crop is rice, while other important products are beans, maize and cassava. Services provide employment for 1% of the population.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] Anjoma Itsara  Anjoma Itsara is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Fianarantsoa II, which is a part of Haute Matsiatra Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 9,000 in 2001 commune census.<ref name="pop"/>  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 97% of the population of the commune are farmers. The most important crops are rice and beans, while other important agricultural products are maize and cassava. Services provide employment for 3% of the population.
In what country is Anjoma? [SEP] Anjoma Betoho  Anjoma Betoho is a town and commune in Madagascar. It belongs to the district of Manjakandriana, which is a part of Analamanga Region. The population of the commune was estimated to be approximately 3,000 in 2001 commune census.<ref name="pop"/>  Primary and junior level secondary education are available in town. The majority 97% of the population of the commune are farmers, while an additional 2% receives their livelihood from raising livestock. The most important crops are rice and bambara groundnut, while other important agricultural products are cassava and sweet potatoes. Services provide employment for 1% of the population.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP]  Ittamadu is an area in Bangalore city in India. Other nearby areas are Hosakerehalli, AG's Layout and Bhuvaneshwari Nagar.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP]  Popular temples are Sri Raghavendra Swamy Mandira, Shanisvara Temple and Dattetreya Swamy Temple, Rameshawara temple, Anejaneya temple.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP]  Institutions such as Webster's School, Presidency Public School, St. Xavier English school and the Nargund group of institutions are located there. 5 star school of ittamadu is chota phool public school
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP]  Peliyagoda is a town in the Western Province of Sri Lanka, lying mostly on the north shore of the Kelani River. As of 2001 it had an estimated population of 29,880. The Airport Expressway's entry point and the Toll Plaza starts from the Peliyagoda section of the highway.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP]  Loluwagoda is a village in the Gampaha District, Sri Lanka. It is located on the Nittambuwa - Giriulla 221 main road, between the towns of Mirigama and Giriulla. The villages that surround it include: Godakalana, Niyandagala, Giriullagama, Thalahena, Harakahawa, Kandangamuwa, Delwala, Dambuwa, Kithalawalana and Nalla. The main religion of the people in the village is Theravada Buddhism. The old Ramanna Nikaya temple in the village (Sri Mahendraramaya) was well known among Buddhist monks in the area as a hidden and quiet temple which is not promoting social services or festivals in order to obtain donations. A group from the villagers annually donate medicine to the Mitirigala Nissarana Vanaya with a group from Atambe village. Like the most villages in Gampaha district, the population in this area is increasing with the value of the land which has not yet encountered any considerable environmental disaster. Though several industrial factories have been established in Loluwagoda area including an export processing zone, it is still considered to be a secure and attractive area to live in.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP] Ittamalliyagoda  Ittamalliyagoda is a village in Sri Lanka. It is located within Central Province.
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP] Loluwagoda Loluwagoda is a well known village in Sri Lanka which is situated on Nittambuwa - Giriulla 221 main road between Mirigama and Giriulla towns. Main religion of the people in the village is Theravada Buddhism.The old Ramanna Nikaya temple in the village (Sri Mahendraramaya) was well-known among Buddhist monks in the area as a hidden and quiet temple which is not promoting social services or festivals in order to obtain donations. A group from the villagers annually donate medicine to the Mitirigala Nissarana Vanaya with a group from Atambe village. Like the most villages in Gampaha district, the population
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP] then moved to India, where the Indian Initiative in Gravitational-wave Observations obtained government support and is constructing LIGO-India. India is not quite as good a location as Australia, but provides most of the benefit. AIGO is on the same grounds as the Gravity Discovery Centre and the GDC Observatory, of which are educational and instructional facilities open to the general public. It is also the site of the Geoscience Australia Gingin Magnetic Observatory, one of a network of nine for monitoring the Earth's magnetic field. AIGO The Australian International Gravitational Observatory (AIGO) is a research facility located near Gingin, north
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP] such as Ambalantota, Bataatha, and Panama. The village in Ambalantota Uhapitigoda, Samadhigama (Chinese:台灣村), was constructed with a hospital complex, playground, computer centre, conference hall and helping centre. Up to date, the residents of the village are cared and provided with both material and spiritual facilities. In addition, he has constructed houses for the victims of civil war in Anuradhapura District. With the catastrophic destruction brought to Myanmar by Cyclone Nargis on 2 May 2008, Chandima turned his attention to helping displaced people in Myanmar. First, he led several aid groups to meet the urgent needs of the victim of hurricane
In what country is Ittamalliyagoda? [SEP] 1950. It is affiiated with the University of Burdwan and offers honours courses in Bengali, English, Sanskrit, history, political science, philosophy, economics, mathematics, physics, chemistry, botany, zoology and nutrition. Itachuna Rajbari also known as "Bargee Danga" became a tourist spot of Hooghly district. This was established by Kundan family originated from Maratha in 1766. Now the palace has been transformed into a heritage hotel. It is known for being the shooting location of many Hindi and Bengali films like Lootera, Poran Jaye Jolia Re, Rajmohol etc. Itachuna Itachuna is a village and Itachuna-Khanyan is a gram panchayat in Pandua CD
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]  Abra is a village in southern Ivory Coast. It is in the sub-prefecture of Attoutou, Jacqueville Department, Grands-Ponts Region, Lagunes District. Abra was a commune until March 2012, when it became one of 1126 communes nationwide that were abolished.
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]   Ivory Coast (also known as Côte d'Ivoire) is a country located in West Africa. Ivory Coast's political capital is Yamoussoukro, and its economic capital and largest city is the port city of Abidjan. Ivory Coast has, for the region, a relatively high income per capita (US$1014.4 in 2013) and plays a key role in transit trade for neighboring, landlocked countries. The country is the largest economy in the West African Economic and Monetary Union, constituting 40% of the monetary union’s total GDP. The country is the world's largest exporter of cocoa beans, and the fourth-largest exporter of goods, in general, in sub-Saharan Africa (following South Africa, Nigeria, and Angola).
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]  Ivory Coast, also known as Côte d'Ivoire, officially the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire, is a country located on the south coast of West Africa. Côte d'Ivoire's political capital is Yamoussoukro in the centre of the country, while its economic capital and largest city is the port city of Abidjan. It borders Guinea to the northwest, Liberia to the west, Mali to the northwest, Burkina Faso to the northeast, Ghana to the east, and the Gulf of Guinea (Atlantic Ocean) to the south. The official language of the republic is French, with local indigenous languages also being widely used that include Bété, Baoulé, Dioula, Dan, Anyin, and Cebaara Senufo. In total, there are around 78 different languages spoken in Ivory Coast. The country has large
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]   The 2006 Ivory Coast toxic waste dump was a health crisis in Ivory Coast in which a ship registered in Panama, the Probo Koala, chartered by the Singaporean-based oil and commodity shipping company Trafigura Beheer BV, offloaded toxic waste to an Ivorian waste handling company which disposed of it at the port of Abidjan. The local contractor, a company called Tommy, dumped the waste at 12 sites in and around the city in August 2006. The dumping, which took place against a backdrop of instability in Abidjan as a result of Côte d'Ivoire's first civil war, allegedly led to the death of 7 and 20 hospitalized and the other
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]  The government is divided into three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial. The Parliament of Ivory Coast, consists of the indirectly elected Senate and the National Assembly which has 255 members, elected for five-year terms. Since 1983, Ivory Coast's capital has been Yamoussoukro, while Abidjan was the administrative center. Most countries maintain their embassies in Abidjan. The Ivorian population has suffered because of the ongoing civil war as of September of 2021. International human-rights organizations have noted problems with the treatment of captive non-combatants by both sides and the re-emergence of child slavery in cocoa production. Although most of the fighting ended by
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP] Abra, Ivory Coast  Abra is a village in southern Ivory Coast. It is in the sub-prefecture of Attoutou, Jacqueville Department, Grands-Ponts Region, Lagunes District.  Abra was a commune until March 2012, when it became one of 1126 communes nationwide that were abolished.
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]
In what country is Abra, Ivory Coast? [SEP]
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]  Kugenuma-Kaigan Station is served by the Odakyu Enoshima Line, with some through services to and from in Tokyo. It lies 58.2 km from the Shinjuku terminus.
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP] West Japan Railway Company ; Wakayama Line
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]  Kugenuma-Kaigan Station (鵠沼海岸駅) is a passenger railway station located in the city of Fujisawa, Kanagawa, Japan and operated by the private railway operator Odakyu Electric Railway.
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]  Hijiri-Kōgen Station (聖高原駅) is a train station in the village of Omi, Higashichikuma District, Nagano Prefecture, Japan, operated by East Japan Railway Company (JR East).
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]  Okunai Station (奥内駅) is a railway station on the East Japan Railway Company (JR East) Tsugaru Line located in the city of Aomori, Aomori Prefecture, Japan.
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]
In what country is Okunakayama-Kōgen Station? [SEP]
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP]  It was not until 1929 when the town was incorporated as a village, and then was no longer under the full jurisdiction of the township.[3] The Village of DeWitt was incorporated into a city in 1965. The Township became a Charter Township on November 7, 1978. The DeWitt area was ranked as the 75th best place to live in the United States by CNN Money in 2005.[4] DeWitt Township has three primary schools district; DeWitt Public Schools, Bath Public Schools and Lansing Public Schools. The DeWitt area is the home of gymnast Jordyn Wieber, who was part of the gold medal-winning women's gymnastics team at the 2012 London Summer Olympics.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP]  DeWitt Charter Township is a charter township of Clinton County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 14,321 at the 2010 census, which was an increase from 12,143 at the 2000 census. The original survey township now includes portions of the cities of DeWitt, East Lansing, and Lansing, but all are administered autonomously or through 425 Agreements.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP]  The township is situated directly north of the city of Lansing, Michigan's capital city. One of the fastest growing areas in the state, the township is quickly developing along the Business US 127 thoroughfare, and near its intersection with I-69. The township is also home to Lansing Capital Region International Airport. DeWitt was named after DeWitt Clinton, Governor of New York from 1817 to 1822, and again from 1825 until his death in 1828. It was first settled by Captain David Scott, who moved there from Ann Arbor in 1833, and platted the land. The State Legislature formally created DeWitt Township on March 23, 1836. The first township meeting was held
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP]  DeWitt Township is one of thirteen townships in DeWitt County, Illinois, USA. As of the 2010 census, its population was 479 and it contained 215 housing units. It was renamed from its original name of Marion Township on June 7, 1859.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP] DeWitt
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP] DeWitt Charter Township, Michigan  DeWitt Charter Township is a charter township of Clinton County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 14,321 at the 2010 census, which was an increase from 12,143 at the 2000 census.  The original survey township now includes portions of the cities of DeWitt, East Lansing, and Lansing, but all are administered autonomously or through 425 Agreements.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP] DeWitt Township, DeWitt County, Illinois  DeWitt Township is one of thirteen townships in DeWitt County, Illinois, USA. As of the 2010 census, its population was 479 and it contained 215 housing units. It was renamed from its original name of Marion Township on June 7, 1859.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP] DeWitt, Michigan  DeWitt is a city in Clinton County in the U.S. state of Michigan. The population was 4,507 at the 2010 census. The city is located north of Interstate 69 and west of U.S. Route 127, just north of the city of Lansing.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP] Santa Anna Township, DeWitt County, Illinois  Santa Anna Township is one of thirteen townships in DeWitt County, Illinois, USA. As of the 2010 census, its population was 2,502 and it contained 1,116 housing units. Its name was changed from Mt. Pleasant Township on June 7, 1859.
In what country is DeWitt Township? [SEP]
In what country is Centre? [SEP]  The South Centre is an intergovernmental organisation of developing nations, established by an intergovernmental Agreement (Treaty), which came into force on 31 July 1995, with its headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. It functions as an independent policy think tank, whilst also holding Observer Status at the United Nations and other development agencies.
In what country is Centre? [SEP]   Czech Centres (Česká centra) is an organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic consisting of offices in 22 countries throughout three continents. It was established for the promotion of the Czech history, culture, language, tourism and trade abroad. It is considered an active instrument of foreign policy of the Czech Republic through public diplomacy.
In what country is Centre? [SEP]  The Centre is one of Cameroon's strongest economic zones due in great part to the presence of the capital city. In fact, the area is second only to the coastal regions of the Littoral, South, and Southwest Provinces. Many international organisations are headquartered at Yaoundé, among them the Bank of Central African States and the African Organisation of Industrial Property.
In what country is Centre? [SEP]  The centre has held international conferences such as the World Health Organization (WHO): World meeting of the regional commission of WHO for Europe and the UNESCO: Conference of Ministers of Culture for South East Europe in 2012. In 2009 it hosted the Fifth International Congress on Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Sources in South East Europe and the Meeting of the chairpersons of the Economic and Social Councils of the Member States of the European Union. In 2007 the Annual Economic Forum of the countries from the Central European Initiative was held at the centre. In 2006, the twelfth meeting of foreign ministers of the countries of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) was held. The 80th Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union was held in 1988.
In what country is Centre? [SEP]  the following : - the Centre has kept its present legal nature, and continues to function as an enlarged partial agreement of the Council of Europe; - an invitation is made to all member States of the Council of Europe as well as to the European Union to join the Centre as soon as possible; - the Centre acts as an interface between the Council of Europe and countries in neighbouring regions which are interested in cooperating with the Organisation, by offering them a platform for structured cooperation at different levels (governments, parliamentarians, local and regional authorities, civil society); - the two former statutory organs of
In what country is Centre? [SEP] Geographical centre of Earth  The geographical center of Earth is the geometric center of all land surfaces on Earth. Geometrically defined it is the Centroid of all land surfaces within the two dimensions of the Geoid surface which approximates the Earth's outer shape. The term "center of minimum distance" specifies the concept more precisely as the domain is the sphere surface without boundary and not the sphere as three-dimensional body.  Explained in a different way, it is the location on the surface of Earth where the sum of distances to all locations on land is the smallest. If you had an airplane with an infinite energy resource and fly from one start location on Earth to one location on a land surface somewhere on Earth and back again and repeat that from the same start location to all possible destination locations, the starting locations where the total travel distance sums up as the smallest, marks the geographical center of Earth.  Its distance definition follows the shortest path on the surface of Earth along the Great Circle (orthodrome).
In what country is Centre? [SEP] Geographical centre  In geography, the centroid of the two-dimensional shape of a region of the Earth's surface (projected radially to sea level or onto a geoid surface) is known as its geographic centre or geographical centre or (less commonly) gravitational centre. Informally, determining the centroid is often described as finding the point upon which the shape (cut from a uniform plane) would balance. This method is also sometimes described as the "gravitational method".  One example of a refined approach using an azimuthal equidistant projection, also potentially incorporating an iterative process, was described by Peter A. Rogerson in 2015. The abstract says "the new method minimizes the sum of squared great circle distances from all points in the region to the center". However, as that property is also true of a centroid (of area), this aspect is effectively just different terminology for determining the centroid.  In 2019, New Zealand's GNS Science also used an iterative approach (and a variety of different projections) when determining a centre position for New Zealand's Extended Continental Shelf.  However, other methods have also been proposed or used to determine the centres of various countries and regions. These include:   As noted in a United States Geological Survey document, "There is no generally accepted definition of geographic center, and no completely satisfactory method for determining it."<ref name=":0" />  In general, there is room for debate around various details such as whether or not to include islands and similarly, large bodies of water, how best to handle the curvature of the Earth (a more significant factor with larger regions) and closely related to that issue, which map projection to use.
In what country is Centre? [SEP] Country Club Centre  Country Club Centre is a shopping center in the Arden-Arcade area in unincorporated Sacramento County, California, United States in the Sacramento area. It is located at the southwest corner of El Camino and Watt Avenues, diagonally across from what was the very first stand-alone store of the now defunct Tower Records chain. It originally opened as a small strip shopping center in 1952 that was later expanded into a regional mall and then later converted into a mixed use of office and retail. The shopping center is currently anchored by the Sacramento area’s only Costco Business Center. It was previously anchored by Walmart (closed), Sam's Club (closed, current Costco Business Center) and Michaels (relocated).
In what country is Centre? [SEP] Geographical midpoint of Europe  The location of the geographical centre of Europe depends on the definition of the borders of Europe, mainly whether remote islands are included to define the extreme points of Europe, and on the method of calculating the final result. Thus, several places claim to host this hypothetical centre.
In what country is Centre? [SEP] Capital city  A capital city or capital is the municipality holding primary status in a country, state, province, department, or other subnational entity, usually as its seat of the government. A capital is typically a city that physically encompasses the government's offices and meeting places; the status as capital is often designated by its law or constitution. In some jurisdictions, including several countries, different branches of government are in different settlements. In some cases, a distinction is made between the official (constitutional) capital and the seat of government, which is in another place.   English-language news media often use the name of the capital city as an alternative name for the government of the country of which it is the capital, as a form of metonymy. For example, "relations between Washington and London" refer to "relations between the United States and the United Kingdom".
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP]  Asahi Station (朝日駅) is a passenger railway station in located in the town of Asahi, Mie Prefecture, Japan, operated by Central Japan Railway Company (JR Tōkai).
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP]  Asahi Station (旭駅) is a railway station on the Dosan Line in Kōchi city, the capital of Kōchi Prefecture, Japan. It is operated by JR Shikoku and has the station number "K03".
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP]  Asahi Station (旭駅) is a passenger railway station in the city of Asahi, Chiba Japan, operated by the East Japan Railway Company (JR East).
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP]  The station opened on 15 November 1924 as an intermediate stop when the then Kōchi Line (later renamed the Dosan Line) was extended eastwards from to. At this time the station was operated by Japanese Government Railways, later becoming Japanese National Railways (JNR). With the privatization of JNR on 1 April 1987, control of the station passed to JR Shikoku.
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP]  Asahi-ekimae-dōri Station (旭駅前通駅), a tramstop on the Ino Line (伊野線) operated by Tosaden Kōtsū (とさでん交通), is located about 300 metres from the station.
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP] Asahi Station (Chiba)
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP] Shin-Asahi Station
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP] Asahi Station  Asahi Station is the name of four train stations in Japan:
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP] Asahi Station (Mie)
In what country is Asahi Station? [SEP] Hizen-Asahi Station
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]  Stare Brzóski is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wysokie Mazowieckie, within Wysokie Mazowieckie County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km east of Wysokie Mazowieckie and 47 km south-west of the regional capital Białystok. The village has a population of 170.
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]  Stare Koluszki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brzeziny, within Brzeziny County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km south-east of Brzeziny and 23 km east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 180.
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]  Stare Brzozowo is a small village in the administrative district of Gmina Dzierzgowo, within Mława County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]  Stare Polaszki is an old village, in which a pagan cemetery was discovered in the 19th century. In 1289 Duke Mestwin II granted Polaszki to Cistercians from Byszewo. Later on, Stare Polaszki was a royal village of the Polish Crown, administratively located in the Tczew County in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. A wooden church of Saint Nicholas is mentioned in a document of Kuyavian Bishop Bonawentura Madaliński from 1686. In the 18th century the Skórzewski Polish noble family lived in Stare Polaszki, and in 1754 Stanisław Skórzewski and his wife Katarzyna Skórzewska founded a new brick church of Saint Nicholas. During the German occupation of Poland (World War II), many Polish families were in 1939, 1942 and 1943 expelled to the General Government, and some people were sent to forced labour, while their farms were handed over to Germans as part of the Lebensraum policy.
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]  Stare Brynki (German: Brünken) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gryfino, within Gryfino County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland, close to the German border. It lies approximately 8 km north-east of Gryfino and 14 km south of the regional capital Szczecin.
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]
In what country is Stare Brzóski? [SEP]
In what country is Bud? [SEP]  .
In what country is Bud? [SEP]  Bud Bud is a census town in Galsi I CD Block of Bardhaman Sadar North subdivision of Purba Bardhaman district in the Indian state of West Bengal.
In what country is Bud? [SEP]  Budweiser is licensed, produced and distributed in Canada by Labatt Brewing Company (also owned by AB InBev). Of the 15 Anheuser-Busch breweries outside of the United States, 14 of them are positioned in China. Budweiser is the fourth leading brand in the Chinese beer market.
In what country is Bud? [SEP]  It is located on Grand Trunk Road, and is near Mankar railway station on the Bardhaman-Durgapur stretch of the Howrah-Delhi track. The office of the Block Development Officer of Galsi I block covering areas of Galsi and Bud Bud police stations is located at Bud Bud. SH 14, running from Dubrajpur (in Birbhum district) to Betai (in Nadia district), passes through Bud Bud.
In what country is Bud? [SEP]  Bud Bar is an artificial reef near Boynton Beach, Florida. It was created when M/S Havel, a 169 ft long German freighter that was used to haul goods between Florida, the Bahamas, and Haiti, was sunk in 95 ft of water on July 16, 1987. The ship was renamed Budweiser Bar or Bud Bar because the company donated money to sink the ship.
In what country is Bud? [SEP] Budweiser  Budweiser () is an American-style pale lager, part of AB InBev. Introduced in 1876 by Carl Conrad & Co. of St. Louis, Missouri, Budweiser has become a large selling beer company in the United States.  "Budweiser" may also refer to an unrelated pale lager beer, originating in České Budějovice, Czech Republic (in German, ) produced by the Budějovický Budvar brewery. There have been multiple trademark disputes between the two companies. Usually, either Anheuser-Busch or Budějovický Budvar are granted the exclusive use of the "Budweiser" name in a given market. Anheuser-Busch commonly uses the "Bud" brand for its beer when "Budweiser" is not available. The AB lager is available in over 80 countries, though not under the Budweiser name in places where Anheuser-Busch does not own the trademark. AB Budweiser is a filtered beer, available on draft and in bottles and cans, made with up to 30% rice in addition to hops and barley malt.
In what country is Bud? [SEP] Bud, Norway  Bud is a fishing village in Hustadvika Municipality in Møre og Romsdal county in western Norway. The village is located on the Romsdal peninsula along the Atlanterhavsveien road, west of the village of Hustad, north of the village of Tornes, and east of the Bjørnsund islands. Bud Church is located in the village.  The village has a population (2018) of 795 and a population density of .  The village was the administrative centre of the old Bud Municipality, which existed from 1838 until 1964 when it was merged into Fræna Municipality. The old municipality encompassed the northern part of the present-day Fræna Municipality.
In what country is Bud? [SEP] Blowin' Country  Blowin' Country is an album by saxophonists Bud Shank and Bob Cooper released on the World Pacific label. The majority of the album's tracks were recorded in 1958, with one track from 1956 on the original album, and the CD reissue added five bonus tracks from the two sessions.
In what country is Bud? [SEP] Anheuser-Busch  Anheuser-Busch Companies, LLC is an American brewing company headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri. Since 2008, it has been wholly owned by Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV (AB InBev), now the world's largest brewing company, which owns multiple global brands, notably Budweiser, Michelob, Stella Artois, and Beck's.  The company employs over 19,000 people, operates 12 breweries in the United States,
In what country is Bud? [SEP] Budweiser Budvar Brewery  Budweiser Budvar ( ) is a brewery in the Czech city of České Budějovice (), best known for its original Budweiser or Budweiser Budvar pale lager brewed using artesian water, Moravian barley and Saaz hops. Budweiser Budvar is the fourth largest beer producer in the Czech Republic and the second largest exporter of beer abroad.  The state-owned brewery and its Budweiser pale lager have been engaged in a trademark dispute with Anheuser-Busch, a brewery in the United States, over the right to market and sell the beer under the name "Budweiser" since the start of the 20th century.<ref name=":4" /><ref name=":3" /> The brewery is incorporated as Budějovický Budvar, národní podnik ("Budweiser Budvar, national enterprise").
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]  Tangal-e Behdan (, also Romanized as Tangal-e Behdān) is a village in Baqeran Rural District, in the Central District of Birjand County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 20, in 10 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]  Tang Behdaneh is a village in Jolgah Rural District, in the Central District of Jahrom County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2016 census, its population was 20, in 4 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]  Tangal (, also Romanized as Tang-e Yāl and Tangyāl) is a village in Qohestan Rural District, Qohestan District, Darmian County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 164, in 39 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]  Tangestan (, also Romanized as Tangestān) is a village in Poshtkuh-e Mugui Rural District, in the Central District of Fereydunshahr County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 89, in 15 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]  Bab Tangal (, also Romanized as Bāb Tangal; also known as Bāb-e Tangal Qadamgāh, Bāb Tangal-e ‘Olyā, Bāb Tangal-e Qadamgāh, Bab Tankal Ghadamgah, Dareh-e Tangal, Dar Tangal (Persian: درتنگل), Dar Tangal-e Qadamgāh, and Dar Tangol) is a village in Vahdat Rural District, in the Central District of Zarand County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,839, in 449 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP] Tangal-e Behdan  Tangal-e Behdan (, also Romanized as Tangal-e Behdān) is a village in Baqeran Rural District, in the Central District of Birjand County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 20, in 10 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP]
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP] Golian, South Khorasan  Golian (, also Romanized as Golīān and Guliān) is a village in Baqeran Rural District, in the Central District of Birjand County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 143, in 42 families.
In what country is Tangal-e Behdan? [SEP] Fasharud Rural District  Fasharud Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Birjand County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,727, in 871 families. The rural district has 22 villages.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP]  Seed 97.5 FM (ซี๊ด เอฟเอ็ม) is a radio station owned and operated by MCOT and based in Bangkok, Thailand. It broadcasts over the 97.5 MHz FM frequency in the Greater Bangkok area, and is repeated nationwide through MCOT Radio's regional network. Seed 97.5 FM ceased broadcasting on 1 January 2017. It was replaced by 97.5 Keep It Mellow.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP]  97.3fm (call sign: 4BFM) is a commercial radio station in Brisbane, Australia. It is a 50/50 joint venture between NOVA Entertainment and ARN, who jointly purchased the license at auction for $67M.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] Radio Torre Macauda (Sciacca)
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP]  KQSK 97.5 FM is a country music station in northwest Nebraska. It is licensed to Chadron, Nebraska. It is owned by Eagle Communications, Inc., and licensee held by Double Q Country. It simulcasts KAAQ FM 105.9 in Alliance, Nebraska.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] Radio Marija Latvija
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] Seed 97.5 FM  Seed 97.5 FM () is a radio station owned and operated by MCOT and based in Bangkok, Thailand. It broadcasts over the 97.5 MHz FM frequency in the Greater Bangkok area, and is repeated nationwide through MCOT Radio's regional network.  Seed 97.5 FM ceased broadcasting on 1 January 2017. It was replaced by 97.5 Keep It Mellow.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] List of radio stations in Massachusetts  The following is a list of the FCC-licensed radio stations in the United States Commonwealth of Massachusetts, which can be sorted by their call signs, frequencies, cities of license, licensees, and programming formats.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] Teerapat Sajakul  Teerapat Sajakul ( Thiraphat Satchakun), nickname Tui (), is a Thai actor and singer. He is also the chief executive for SEED 97.5 FM, one of the most popular radio stations run by MCOT.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] Love of Siam  Love of Siam (, , pronounced ) is a 2007 Thai multi-layered romantic-drama film written and directed by Chookiat Sakveerakul. The film tells a story of love, friendship and family. The film was released in Thailand on November 22, 2007. The fact that the gay romance storyline was not apparent from the film's promotional material initially caused controversy, but the film was received with critical acclaim and proved financially successful. It dominated Thailand's 2007 film awards season, winning the Best Picture category in all major events.
In what country is Seed 97.5 FM? [SEP] MCOT  MCOT Public Company Limited (MCOT; ), formerly known as the Mass Communication Organization of Thailand, is a Thai state-owned public broadcaster. It owns and operates a number of radio and television stations in Thailand. It is based in Bangkok. At present, MCOT runs seven national, one international, 52 provincial, one district radio station, two television channels (terrestrial free-to-air; until 2020), and 2 satellite television channels. (until 2017) Their motto is "Always Serving the Public". On their website MCOT uses the slogan "Digitally beyond" (Nov 2014).
In what country is Perth? [SEP]   Tourism in Perth, the capital city of Western Australia, is an important part of the Australian state's economy, contributing to the prosperity of businesses in the city, as well as other regions of the state. Perth had approximately 2.8 million domestic visitors and 0.7 million international visitors in the year ending March 2012.
In what country is Perth? [SEP]  music events in the city. The annual event lasts for a couple of weeks and is usually held in May. In recent years, the festival has broadened its appeal by adding comedy, rock and popular music acts to the bill. Perth also has a number of twin cities around the world. These are: Aschaffenburg in Germany, Bydgoszcz in Poland, Haikou, Hainan in China, Perth in Australia, Perth in Canada, Pskov in Russia and Cognac in France. Perth is noted for its lively nightlife, with dozens of bars and several nightclubs. Perth has hosted the National Mòd in 1896, 1900, 1924, 1929, 1947, 1954, 1963, 1980 and 2004.
In what country is Perth? [SEP]  Avon Valley is a national park located 47 km northeast of the Perth CBD. In the springtime there is a diverse range of wildflowers. Toilets, water, shaded areas and wood barbecues are available for use, however entry and camping fess apply. John Forrest National Park is a national park in the Darling Scarp, 24 km east of the Perth CBD. It was the first national park in Western Australia. There are several walking trails within the national park, including along the former route of the Eastern Railway. Yanchep is a national park 42 km north of the Perth CBD. The park is noted for its caves, native bush and koala colonies. It also offers cultural educational programmes offered in partnership with the local Nyoongar aboriginal people.
In what country is Perth? [SEP]  Perth is a town in the Australian state of Tasmania. It lies 20 km south of Launceston, on the Midland Highway. The town had a population of 2,965 at the 2016 census, and is part of the Northern Midlands Council. Like nearby Longford, Perth is a historic town with many buildings dating back to the early 19th century. It is the first major town out of Launceston on the route to Hobart, and also serves as a major junction for people bypassing Launceston on the route from Hobart to the northwest of the state.
In what country is Perth? [SEP]  Perth is a suburb in the Perth metropolitan region, Western Australia that includes both the central business district of the city, and a suburban area spreading north to the northern side of Hyde Park. It does not include the separate suburbs of Northbridge or Highgate. Perth is split between the City of Perth and the City of Vincent local authorities, and was named after the city of the same name in Scotland.
In what country is Perth? [SEP] Perth  Perth is the capital and largest city of the Australian state of Western Australia. It is the fourth most populous city in Australia and Oceania, with a population of 2.1 million (80% of the state) living in Greater Perth in 2020.  Captain James Stirling founded Perth in 1829 as the administrative centre of the Swan River Colony. It was named after the city of Perth in Scotland, due to the influence of Stirling's patron Sir George Murray, who had connections with the area. It gained city status in 1856, although the Perth City Council currently governs only a small area around the central business district. The city's population increased substantially as a result of the Western Australian gold rushes in the late 19th century. It has grown steadily since World War II due to a high net migration rate. Post-war immigrants were predominantly from the British Isles and Southern Europe, while more recent arrivals see a growing population of Asian descent. Several mining booms in other parts of Western Australia in the late 20th and early 21st centuries saw Perth become the regional headquarters for large mining operations.  Perth contains a number of important public buildings as well as cultural and heritage sites. Notable government buildings include Parliament House, Government House, the Supreme Court Buildings and the Perth Mint. The city is served by Fremantle Harbour and Perth Airport. It was a naval base for the Allies during World War II and today, the Royal Australian Navy's Fleet Base West is located on Garden Island. All five of Western Australia's universities are based in Perth.   The city has been ranked as one of the world's most liveable cities, and was classified by the Globalization and World Cities Research Network in 2020 as a Beta global city.  , Perth is divided into 30 local government areas and consists of more than 350 suburbs. The metropolitan boundaries stretch from Two Rocks in the north to Singleton in the south, and east inland to The Lakes. Outside of the central business district, important urban centres within the metropolitan area include Armadale, Fremantle, Joondalup, Midland, and Rockingham. Most of those were originally established as separate settlements and retained a distinct identity after being subsumed into the wider metropolitan area. Mandurah, Western Australia's second-largest city, forms a conurbation with Perth along the coast, though for most purposes it is still considered a separate city.
In what country is Perth? [SEP] Perth Amboy, New Jersey  Perth Amboy is a city in Middlesex County, New Jersey, United States. Perth Amboy is part of the New York metropolitan area. As of the 2020 U.S. census, the city's population was 55,436. Perth Amboy has a Hispanic majority population. In the 2010 census, the Hispanic population made up 78.1% of the population, the second-highest in the state, behind Union City at 84.7%.  The earliest residents of the area were the Lenape Native Americans, who called the point on which the city lies "Ompoge". Perth Amboy was settled in 1683 by Scottish colonists and was called "New Perth" after James Drummond, 4th Earl of Perth; the native name was eventually corrupted and the two names were merged. Perth Amboy was formed by Royal charter in 1718, and the New Jersey Legislature reaffirmed its status in 1784, after independence. The city was a capital of the Province of New Jersey from 1686 to 1776. During the mid-1800s, the Industrial Revolution and immigration grew the city, developing a variety of neighborhoods which residents from a diverse range of ethnicities lived in. The city developed into a resort town for the Raritan Bayshore near it, but the city has grown in other industries since its redevelopment starting in the 1990s.  Perth Amboy borders the Arthur Kill and features a historic waterfront. The Perth Amboy Ferry Slip was once an important ferry slip on the route south from New York City; it was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1978. The Raritan Yacht Club, one of the oldest yacht clubs in the United States, is located in the city. Perth Amboy is connected to the Staten Island borough of New York City via the Outerbridge Crossing.
In what country is Perth? [SEP]
In what country is Perth? [SEP] Principality of Hutt River  The Principality of Hutt River, often referred to by its former name, the Hutt River Province, was a micronation in Australia. The principality claimed to be an independent sovereign state, founded on 21 April 1970. It was dissolved on 3 August 2020.  The principality was located 517 km (354 mi) north of Perth, near the town of Northampton in the state of Western Australia. It had an area of , making it larger than several recognized countries. It was not recognised as a country by the Australian Government nor any other national government, and the High Court of Australia and Supreme Court of Western Australia rejected submissions arguing that it was not subject to Australian laws.   The principality was a regional tourist attraction until it announced it was closed to tourists after 31 January 2020. It issued its own currency, stamps and passports (which are not recognised by the Australian government or any other government).<ref name="MacBeth"/> The micronation was founded on 21 April 1970 when Leonard Casley declared his farm to be an independent country, the Hutt River Province. He attempted to secede from Australia over a dispute concerning wheat production quotas. A few years later, Casley began styling himself as "Prince Leonard" and granting family members royal titles, although he did not include the word "principality" in the official name until 2006.  In February 2017, at the age of 91 and after ruling for 45 years, Casley abdicated the throne in favour of his youngest son, Prince Graeme. Prince Leonard died on 13 February 2019.  In December 2019 the principality announced that it would close its borders and cease its external government services as of 31 January 2020, until further notice. On 3 August 2020 the principality formally dissolved.
In what country is Perth? [SEP] Perth Glory FC  Perth Glory Football Club is an Australian professional soccer club based in Perth, Western Australia. It competes in the country's premier men's competition, A-League Men, under licence from Australian Professional Leagues.  Founded in 1995, Perth Glory is one of three A-League clubs to survive from the now-defunct National Soccer League (NSL), playing their debut match in this competition in October 1996 for the 1996–97 season. Perth established itself as a major side within Australian soccer in the final seasons of this league, with managers Bernd Stange and Mich d'Avray leading the club to three league Premierships and two Championships from four grand final appearances within a five-season period. Since entering the A-League as one of the eight original teams in 2004, the club has won a further Premiership and appeared in two more grand finals under the management of Tony Popovic and Ian Ferguson. The club has also appeared in the AFC Champions League once and appeared in two Australia Cup finals and two A-League Pre-Season Challenge Cup finals.  The club plays its home matches at Perth Oval, currently known as "HBF Park" for sponsorship purposes, a 20,500-seat stadium on Lord Street in Perth's city centre. Perth has used this stadium as their home ground since their inception.  Perth's main supporters' group is known as the "Glory Shed Supporters Club", named after "The Shed", a terrace at the club's home ground. The club has rivalries with Wellington Phoenix, Gold Coast United, and the Melbourne Knights. The club's all-time leading goalscorer is Bobby Despotovski, with 129 goals to his name in all competitions. Jamie Harnwell holds the record for most matches played, with 256 appearances for the Glory.
In what country is Ara? [SEP]  The Amateurs Radio Algeriens (ARA; English: Association of Algerian Radio Amateurs) is a national non-profit organization for amateur radio enthusiasts in Algeria. The organisation was founded on March 23, 1963. Key membership benefits of the ARA include a QSL bureau for those amateur radio operators in regular communications with other amateur radio operators in foreign countries, and a network to support amateur radio emergency communications. The ARA represents the interests of Algerian amateur radio operators before Algerian and international regulatory authorities. The ARA is the national member society representing Algeria in the International Amateur Radio Union. In 2013 the organisation celebrated its 50th anniversary.
In what country is Ara? [SEP]  Ara Eivissa (, Ara) is a political coalition formed in Ibiza in 2019. It was created ahead of the 2019 Spanish general election, the 2019 Balearic election and the 2019 local elections as an electoral alliance formed by Let's Win Ibiza (Guanyem), Republican Left of Catalonia (esquerra) and Equo (eQuo).
In what country is Ara? [SEP]  The ARA, Ireland is one of eleven ARA regions that span the whole of the UK and Ireland, each with its own regional committee. However, it enjoys a considerably greater level of autonomy than the other ten British regions.
In what country is Ara? [SEP]  Ara Town is home to the Ara Rock which stands facing the town, and is a popular tourist attraction.
In what country is Ara? [SEP]  The newspaper is printed in Barcelona and distributed throughout Catalonia. Since 2011, distribution was launched also on the Balearic Islands, soon becoming the most widely-read newspaper in Catalan language in the region. In February 2012, distribution was extended to some areas of the Valencian Community, especially in the Province of Castelló and in the city of Valencia. Ara offers selected news items in English and Spanish.
In what country is Ara? [SEP] 'Ara  Ara (; ) is a village in the Haifa District in northern Israel, located in the Wadi Ara valley. Since 1985, 'Ara has been part of the Ar'ara local council. It is located north of highway 65, between Ar'ara and Kfar Qara. Its population of 4,600 (as of 2004) is almost entirely Muslim.
In what country is Ara? [SEP] Arabic  Arabic (, ' ; , ' or ) is a Semitic language spoken primarily across the Arab world. Having emerged in the 1st century, it is named after the Arab people; the term "Arab" was initially used to describe those living in the Arabian Peninsula, as perceived by geographers from ancient Greece.  Since the 7th century, Arabic has been characterized by diglossia, with an opposition between a standard prestige language—i.e., Literary Arabic: Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) or Classical Arabic—and diverse vernacular varieties, which serve as mother tongues. Colloquial dialects vary significantly from MSA, impeding mutual intelligibility. MSA is only acquired through formal education and is not spoken natively. It is the language of literature, official documents, and formal written media. In spoken form, MSA is used in formal contexts, news bulletins and for prayers. This variety is the lingua franca of the Arab world and the liturgical language of Islam. It is an official language of 26 states and 1 disputed territory, the third most after English and French. It is also one of six official languages of the United Nations.  Spoken varieties are the usual medium of communication in all other domains. They are not standardized and vary significantly, some of them being mutually unintelligible. The International Organization for Standardization assigns language codes to 33 varieties of Arabic, including MSA. Arabic vernaculars do not descend from MSA or Classical Arabic. Combined, Arabic dialects have 362 million native speakers,  Arabic is traditionally written with the Arabic alphabet, a right-to-left abjad. This alphabet is the official script for MSA. Colloquial varieties were traditionally not written, however, with the emergence of social media, the amount of written dialects has significantly increased online. Besides the Arabic alphabet, dialects are also often written in Latin from left to right or in Hebrew characters (in Israel)<ref name="ShachmonMack2016p223–224"/> with no standardized orthography. Maltese is the only colloquial variety officially written in a Latin alphabet.<ref name="Čéplö"/>
In what country is Ara? [SEP] Ya'ara  Ya'ara (, "lit." honeysuckle and honeycomb) is a moshav in northern Israel. Located near Ma'alot-Tarshiha, it falls under the jurisdiction of Ma'ale Yosef Regional Council. In it had a population of .
In what country is Ara? [SEP] Alam Ara  Alam Ara () is a 1931 Indian Hindustani-language historical fantasy film directed and produced by Ardeshir Irani. It revolves on a king and his two wives, Navbahaar and Dilbahaar, who are childless; soon, a "fakir" (Muhammad Wazir Khan) tells the king that the former wife will give birth to a boy, later named Qamar (Master Vithal), but the child will die following his 18th birthday if Navbahaar cannot find the necklace he asks for. Meanwhile, the king finds out that Dilbahaar falls for the "senapati" Adil (Prithviraj Kapoor), leading the king to arrest him and evicts his pregnant wife, who later gives birth to Alam Ara (Zubeida).  Irani was inspired to make "Alam Ara", after watching the 1929 American part-talkie "Show Boat". The story was adapted from the Bombay-based dramatist Joseph David's play of the same name. Made on a budget of , principal photography was handled by Adi M. Irani within four months in Bombay (present-day Mumbai). Because the studio was located near a railway track, it was filmed mostly during the nighttime to avoid noise from the active trains. Following filming, Ardeshir Irani finished the sound recording using the single-system recording. Firozshah Mistry and B. Irani served as the music director.  "Alam Ara" was released on 14 March 1931 and performed well at the box office. Critics were appreciative, with the performance and songs got the most attention though some of whom criticised the sound recording. In addition to the successes, the film was also widely considered a major breakthrough for the Indian film industry and Ardeshir Irani's career with its status as the country's first sound film. Although no print or gramophone record of the film is known to survive, thereby making it a lost film, surviving artefacts include its stills and posters. In 2017, the British Film Institute declared it as the most important of any lost films produced in India.
In what country is Ara? [SEP] Scarlet macaw  The scarlet macaw (Ara macao) is a large red, yellow, and blue Central and South American parrot, a member of a large group of Neotropical parrots called macaws. It is native to humid evergreen forests of the Neotropics. Its range extends from south-eastern Mexico to Peru, Ecuador, Colombia, Bolivia, Venezuela and Brazil in lowlands of (at least formerly) up to , the Caribbean island of Trinidad, as well as the Pacific island of Coiba.<ref name="iucn status 12 November 2021" /> Formerly, it ranged north to southern Tamaulipas. In some areas, it has suffered local extinction because of habitat destruction, or capture for the parrot trade, but in other areas, it remains fairly common. It is the national bird of Honduras. Like its relative the blue-and-yellow macaw, the scarlet macaw is a popular bird in aviculture as a result of its striking plumage.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Wir is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 16 km north-east of Przysucha and 85 km south of Warsaw. The village has an approximate population of 510.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Stary Dwór is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wierzbno, within Węgrów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 8 km south of Wierzbno; 21 km south-west of Węgrów, and 57 km east of Warsaw.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Wir-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 15 km north-east of Przysucha and 86 km south of Warsaw. The village has a population of 140.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Wir Stary is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Wierzbno is a village in Węgrów County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Wierzbno. It lies approximately 14 km south-west of Węgrów and 61 km east of Warsaw.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP] Wir, Masovian Voivodeship  Wir is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Przysucha and south of Warsaw.  The village has an approximate population of 510.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP] Wir Stary  Wir Stary is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP] Wir-Kolonia  Wir-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Potworów, within Przysucha County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Przysucha and south of Warsaw.  The village has a population of 140.
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Wir, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP]  Avarzaman (, also Romanized as Āvarzamān and Arūzamān; also known as Āb-ī-Zamān, Āb Zamām, Āvar Zamān Tappeh Qayelī, and Avzamān) is a village in Avarzaman Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,881, in 550 families.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP]  Avarzaman Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,337, in 1,623 families. The rural district has 10 villages.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP]  Andrés Allamand Zavala (born February 7, 1956), a Chilean politician, is the founder and one of the past leaders of Renovación Nacional. He is of French, and Basque descent. On January 14, 2011 he was named Minister of Defense by president Sebastián Piñera. He was sworn in on January 16, 2011 and left office on November 5, 2012. He was named Minister of Foreign Affairs following a Cabinet reshuffle on 28 July, 2021, resigning the Senate seat he had held since 2014. Allamand is a member of the Inter-American Dialogue.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP]  Avanza País (lit. Forward Country) is a centre-left political alliance in Paraguay.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP]  Erick Raúl Alemán Ramírez (born February 20, 1990), better known by his stage name Alemán, is a Mexican rapper. Alemán was born and raised in Cabo San Lucas. His solo career began in 2014 on the Homegrown label with his first album Pase de abordar ("Boarding Pass"). His penultimate album, Eclipse, achieved international success, receiving touring support in Mexico, Chile, Argentina, and Spain. A 2017 article on Mexican rap by Noisey France which highlighted his collaboration with Yoga Fire, "Chapo Guzmán", was later mentioned in a Red Bull promotional piece stating him to be "considered one of the best Spanish-language rappers".
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP] Avarzaman  Avarzaman (, also Romanized as Āvarzamān and Arūzamān; also known as Āb-ī-Zamān, Āb Zamām, Āvar Zamān Tappeh Qayelī, and Avzamān) is a village in Avarzaman Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,881, in 550 families.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP] Dehnow-e Avarzaman  Dehnow-e Avarzaman (, also Romanized as Dehnow-e Āvarzamān and Deh Now-ye Āvar Zamān; also known as Deh Now) is a village in Haram Rud-e Sofla Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,609, in 446 families.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP] Avarzaman Rural District  Avarzaman Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,337, in 1,623 families. The rural district has 10 villages.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP] Durijan  Durijan (, also Romanized as Dūrījān) is a village in Avarzaman Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 371, in 82 families.
In what country is Avarzaman? [SEP] Mianzulan  Mianzulan (, also Romanized as Mīānzūlan and Mīān Zūlān; also known as Mūzelān) is a village in Avarzaman Rural District, Samen District, Malayer County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 188, in 51 families.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP]  Anaran Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,709, in 912 families. The rural district has 17 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP]  Anarestan Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Riz District of Jam County, Bushehr Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,891, in 621 families. The rural district has 10 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP]  Anarestan Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Chenar Shahijan District, Kazerun County, Fars Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11,070, in 2,414 families. The rural district has 18 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP]  Adaran Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in Asara District, Karaj County, Alborz Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population (prior to the transfer of Sira and Pol-e Khvab to Asara) was 8,995, in 2,681 families; afterward, the population (as of 2006) was 8,442, in 2,544 families. The rural district has 28 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP]  Hoseynabad Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Anar County, Kerman Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,394, in 1,561 families. The rural district has 25 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP] Anaran Rural District  Anaran Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,709, in 912 families. The rural district has 17 villages.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP] Tom Tomu  Tom Tomu (, also Romanized as Tom Tomū and Tam Tamū) is a village in Anaran Rural District, in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 354, in 77 families. The village is populated by Lurs.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP] Shahrak-e Qirab  Shahrak-e Qirab (, also Romanized as Shahrak-e Qīrāb; also known as Qīrāb) is a village in Anaran Rural District, in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 83, in 14 families. The village is populated by Lurs.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP] Bisheh Deraz  Bisheh Deraz (, also Romanized as Bīsheh Derāz and Bīsheh Darāz; also known as Beshādarāz) is a village in Anaran Rural District, in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 577, in 117 families. The village is populated by Lurs.
In what country is Anaran Rural District? [SEP] Dul-e Moniri  Dul-e Moniri (, also Romanized as Dūl-e Monīrī) is a village in Anaran Rural District, in the Central District of Dehloran County, Ilam Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 43, in 8 families. The village is populated by Lurs.
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]  La Barre is a commune in the Jura department and Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region of eastern France.
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP] Abdulrahman Jama Barre, former Foreign Minister of Somalia ; Alexandra Barré (born 1958), Hungarian-born Canadian sprint kayaker ; Antoine Lefèbvre de La Barre (1622–1688), Governor of New France ; Denis Barré (born 1948), Canadian sprint canoer ; François-Jean de la Barre (1745–1766), French nobleman ; Isaac Barré (1726–1802), Irish soldier and politician ; Jacques-Jean Barre (1793–1855), French engraver (also often styled "Jean-Jacques Barre") ; Jean Alexandre Barré (1880–1967), French neurologist ; Jean-Auguste Barre (1811–1896), French sculptor and medalist ; Jean-Benoît-Vincent Barré (1732–1824), French architect ; Martin Barre (born 1946), guitarist of rock band Jethro Tull ; Michel de la Barre (c. 1670–1745), French composer and flutist ; Mohammed Sulaymon Barre (born 1964),
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]  detainee ; Mylanie Barré (born 1979), Canadian sprint kayaker ; Pierre-Yves Barré (1749–1832), French vaudevillist and songwriter ; Raoul Barré (1874–1932), Canadian/American artist ; Raymond Barre (1924–2007), French politician and economist ; Richard Barre (c. 1130–c. 1202) Archdeacon of Ely and author ; Siad Barre (1919–1995), former President of Somalia ; W. J. Barre (1830–1867), Irish architect ; Weston La Barre (1911–1996), American anthropologist ; William de la Barre (1849–1936), Austrian engineer and salesman Barre Phillips (born 1934), jazz and free improvisation bassist ; Barré Lyndon (1896–1972), British playwright and screenwriter Barre or Barré is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include: Surname: Given name:
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]  GP: Grand Prix
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]  Barrême (Barrema) is a commune in the southeastern French department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence. The inhabitants of this commune are known as Barrêmois or Barrêmoises.
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP] Barre Denis  Barre Denis is a second-order administrative division in Castries District on the island nation of Saint Lucia. It has a population of 699. The town within Barre Denis is called Berre Denis. Barre Densis is located at the northern end of the island towards its heart, between Deglos and Tourat.
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP]
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP] Raymond Barre  Raymond Octave Joseph Barre (; 12 April 192425 August 2007) was a French centre-right politician and economist. He was a Vice President of the European Commission and Commissioner for Economic and Financial Affairs under three presidents (Rey, Malfatti and Mansholt) and later served as Prime Minister under Valéry Giscard d'Estaing from 1976 until 1981. As a candidate for the presidency in 1988, he came in third and was eliminated in the first round. He was born in Saint-Denis, in the French island of Réunion, then still a colony (it became an overseas department in 1946).
In what country is Barre Denis? [SEP] Dennis Bonvie  Dennis Kevin Bonvie (born July 23, 1973) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player, most notable for being the most penalized player in professional hockey history with 4,804 career professional career penalty minutes (most of it being in the American Hockey League). He is currently a pro scout for the NHL’s Boston Bruins.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]  The Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology (OSI) (in German: Otto-Selz-Institut für Angewandte Psychologie) in Mannheim, Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany is a psychological and interdisciplinary research institute and an associated institution within the University of Mannheim. Under the leadership of Prof. Dr. Georg W. Alpers, president of the Institute, and Prof. Dr. Sabine Matthäus, vice president of the institute, OSI employs a staff of about 20 researchers and additional support staff. The OSI was established in Mannheim in 1964 and is still headquartered there. The institute was named after the German pioneer of neuroscience and last director of the Handelshochschule Mannheim Otto Selz.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]  The OSI works and researches in close collaboration with the Chair of Clinical and Biological Psychology and Psychotherapy of the University of Mannheim.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP] AB 1: Evaluation, Diagnostics and Methods ; AB 2: Psychobiology and Health ; AB 3: Cognitive Processes and Power ; AB 4: Economics and Organization Processes ; AB 5: Health Support and Education The institute is organized into 5 major research groups (ABs) and several support units:
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]  Institute of Psychology of the University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary, is located at 2 Egyetem Street, at the Szeged University Campus of the Faculty of Arts. The Institute of Psychology in Szeged is the longest-standing psychology institute in Hungary (founded on 18 December 1929). Today, the Institute provides a three-year Psychology Bachelor of Arts (BA) training, followed by a two-year Master of Arts (MA) course in two possible majors: Cognitive and Neuropsychology, or Counseling and Educational Psychology.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]  The Department of Psychology has developed into one of the leading research and teaching institutions in Germany, focusing mainly on the research areas of Industrial and Organizational Psychology, Consumer Psychology, Social Psychology and Cognitive Psychology. Recently a new chair for Consumer Psychology has been established and a collaborative research center on decision making been opened. Further research is also being conducted at the Otto-Selz-Institute (Mannheim Centre for Work and Health), which focuses on the impact of negative influences at the workplace.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP] Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology  The Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology (OSI) (in German: "Otto-Selz-Institut für Angewandte Psychologie") in Mannheim, Baden-Wuerttemberg, Germany is a psychological and interdisciplinary research institute and an associated institution within the University of Mannheim. Under the leadership of Prof. Dr. Georg W. Alpers, president of the Institute, and Prof. Dr. Sabine Matthäus, vice president of the institute, OSI employs a staff of about 20 researchers and additional support staff. The OSI was established in Mannheim in 1964 and is still headquartered there. The institute was named after the German pioneer of neuroscience and last director of the Handelshochschule Mannheim Otto Selz.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP] Otto Selz  Otto Selz (14 February 1881 – 27 August 1943) was a German psychologist from Munich, Bavaria, who formulated the first non-associationist theory of thinking, in 1913. Influenced by the German phenomenological tradition, Selz used the method of introspection, but unlike his predecessors, his theory developed without the use of images and associations. Wilhelm Wundt used the method of introspection in the 1880s, but thought that higher-level mental processes could not be studied in the scientific laboratory.
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP]
In what country is Otto-Selz-Institute of Applied Psychology? [SEP] University of Mannheim  The University of Mannheim (German: "Universität Mannheim"), abbreviated UMA, is a public research university in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Founded in 1967, the university has its origins in the "Palatine Academy of Sciences", which was established by Elector Carl Theodor at Mannheim Palace in 1763, as well as the "Handelshochschule" (Commercial College Mannheim), which was founded in 1907.  The university offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral programs in business administration, economics, law, social sciences, humanities, mathematics, computer science and information systems. The university's campus is located in the city center of Mannheim and its main campus is in the Mannheim Palace. In the academic year 2020/2021 the university had 11,640 full-time students, 1600 academic staff, with 194 professors, and a total income of around €121 million.<ref name=":1"/><ref name="auto"/> It is organized into five schools and two graduate colleges.
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]  The Jodłówka gas field in Poland was discovered in 1980. It began production in 1985 and produces natural gas. The total proven reserves of the Jodłówka gas field are around 106 billion cubic feet (3×109m³).
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]  The Jasionka gas field in Poland was discovered onshore in 2001. It began production of natural gas in 2002. The total proven reserves of the Jasionka gas field are around 70 billion cubic feet (2×109m³).
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]  The Wola Obszańska gas field in Poland was discovered in 1989. It began production in 1992 and produces natural gas. The total proven reserves of the Wola Obszańska gas field are around 37 billion cubic feet (1×109m³).
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP] The Daszawa gas field was discovered in 1950. It began production in 1950. The proven reserves of natural gas of the Daszawa gas field are around 72 billion cubic feet (2×109m³). ; The Dzików gas field, discovered in 1962, began production in 1965. Proven reserves are about 70 billion cubic feet (2×109m³). ; Jasionka ; Jodłówka ; Kościan ; Przemyśl ; Radlin ; Terliczka ; Wilga ; Wola Obszańska ; Żołynia
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP] The first oil well was drilled at Bóbrka Field in 1853; it was 7 years after drilling the first oil well in Baku settlement (Bibi-Heybat) in 1846 on Apsheron peninsula. ; The B3 oil field is an oil and gas field in the Baltic sea. The field is located 80 km off the Polish coastal town Rozewie. The crude oil is also referred to as Rozewie crude.  The API gravity of the crude is 42-43 and sulfur content of 0.12 wt%.  The jack up rig Baltic Beta located on the field takes care of processing, drilling and accommodation. The associated gas is sent through a pipeline to the heat and power generating plant in Władysławowo.  Most of the oil produced from B3 is shipped by tanker to Gdańsk and fed to
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]
In what country is Jodłówka gas field? [SEP]
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]  The Tupper-Barnett House (also known as Bennett House or Barnett Tupper McRae House) is a historic house located at 101 US 78B in Washington, Georgia. Built as a high-end Federal style residence, it was augmented about 1860 with one of the nation's finest examples of a full peristyle Greek Revival colonnade. It was declared a National Historic Landmark on November 7, 1973.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]  The house was built around 1832 by William H. Pope, and eventually came into the ownership of Henry Tupper, who in about 1860 added the colonnade. This work was done in such a seamless way that it is difficult to discern that it was in fact a later addition. In the early 20th century the house was owned by Edward Augustus Barnett, a mayor of Washington.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]  It stands near the center of Washington, at the northwest corner of United States Route 78B and Allison Street. It is a two-story wood-framed structure, set on a high foundation. It is completely encircled by a two-story colonnade of fluted Doric columns, which are supported by brick piers, providing a covered walkway under the porch. Access to the main entrance is provided by a projecting open porch with stairs extending to the sides. Its main facade behind the colonnade is five bays wide, with the main entrance in the center bay, flanked by sidelight windows and topped by an arched transom window. Above the entrance is a second door with similar styling, which opens onto an iron balcony. The interior of the house follows a typical Federal period center hall plan, with a pair of rooms on each side on each floor. The front parlors on the main floor have exceptionally high quality woodwork with elaborate details, while other rooms have simpler detail but still high quality.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP] "These cottages were built by Sir Alfred Yarrow Baronet out of his great respect for and in affectionate memory of his friend Canon S. A. Barnett, whose life was spent in assisting all with whom he came in contact to become both nobler and happier."  The Barnett Homestead is a grade II listed building in Erskine Hill, Hampstead Garden Suburb, in north London, England. Designed by architect John Soutar, the building comprises 12 apartments intended for soldiers' widows and their children, and its construction was funded by shipbuilder and philanthropist Sir Alfred Yarrow in 1916. The building was given its name as a memorial to clergyman and social reformer Samuel Augustus Barnett, who was a friend of Yarrow's. It was listed in November 1996. The building is symmetrically designed in a Georgian style, though Soutar adopted a cottage vernacular with dormer windows. A metal plaque on the west face of the south wing bears the inscription:  Barnett was married to Henrietta Barnett, who founded The Institute (later renamed Henrietta Barnett School) nearby in 1911.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]  The Barnett–Criss House is an Italianate style house constructed on the much traveled National Road a few miles east of New Concord, Ohio. The house was placed on the National Register on 1978-12-08.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP] Tupper-Barnett House  The Tupper-Barnett House (also known as Bennett House or Barnett Tupper McRae House) is a historic house located at 101 US 78B in Washington, Georgia. Built as a high-end Federal style residence, it was augmented about 1860 with one of the nation's finest examples of a full peristyle Greek Revival colonnade. It was declared a National Historic Landmark on November 7, 1973.
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]
In what country is Tupper-Barnett House? [SEP]
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]  The Izvorul Dorului is a right tributary of the river Prahova in Romania. It discharges into the Prahova in Sinaia. Its length is 16 km and its basin size is 33 km2.
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]  The Izvorul Gotia is a left tributary of the river Lotru in Romania. It discharges into Vidra Lake, which is drained by the Lotru. Its length is 8 km and its basin size is 15 km2.
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]  The Izvorul Mircii or Izvorul Mircea is a left tributary of the river Buda in Romania. Its source is on the western slope of Moldoveanu Peak (Făgăraș Mountains), the highest mountain peak in Romania. Its length is 7 km and its basin size is 22 km2.
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]  The Izvorul Muntelui is a right tributary of the river Bistrița in Romania. It discharges into the Bistrița downstream from the Izvorul Muntelui dam. Its length is 13 km and its basin size is 34 km2.
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]  The Izvorul Bigăr is located at the south-west limit of the country, in the south of the Anina Mountains (a group of mountains included in the Banat Mountains), in Caraș-Severin County, on the upper Anina River, in the Cheile Nerei-Beușnița National Park.
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP]
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP] the river, from Zrenjanin to the Romanian border. It is planned that the entire project will be finished in 4 years, by 2022. Settlements on Novi Begej include the villages of Srpski Itebej (with a huge fishpond), Novi Itebej, Torak (formerly Begejci) and Žitište. The following rivers are tributaries to the river Bega (in downstream order): Left: Bega Luncanilor (Bega Mare), Pârâul Carpenului, Șopot, Vădana, Bucovăț, Zopana, Bălășina, Gladna, Timișel, Glavița Right: Bega Poieni (Bega Mică), Homojdia, Năndrăneasca, Icui, Zidileasca, Bunea, Cladova, Nieregiș, Fădimac, Miniș, Chizdia, Temeșiț, Mociur, Valea Țiganului, Gherteamoș, Potoc-Remetea, Behela, Bega Veche Part of the water from
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP] Dâmbovița River Dâmbovița () is a river in Romania. It has its sources in the Făgăraș Mountains, on the Curmătura Oticu. The upper reach of the rivers, upstream of the confluence with the Boarcășu River is also known as Izvorul Oticului River or Oticu River. It passes through Bucharest and flows into the Argeș River 286 kilometres from its source, near Budești, in Călărași County. Its drainage basin area is 2,824 km. Dâmbovița County is named after the river. The name of the Dâmbovița is of Slavic origin, derived from Common Slavic "dǫbŭ" (дѫбъ), meaning "oak", as it once flowed
In what country is Izvorul Morarului River? [SEP] and Dobra Right: Coasta, Valea Lacului, Izvorul cu Hotar, Cărbunele, Ștefanu, Mirăuțu, Mierul, Pârâul Stânei, Padina, Pârâul Scurt, Miru, Pârâul Sec, Pârâul Mioarelor, Bora, Vidra, Vidruța, Chioara, Valea cu Fagi, Trăznetu, Șteileu, Padina Ursului, Râmna, Runculeț, Buta, Mânăileasa, Moșu, Pârâul Cărării, Lupul, Larga, Prejbuța, Latorița, Mălaia, Bucureasa Mare, Valea Satului, Grotu, Valea Izvorului, Pleștioara, Sturișori, Nicula, Sașa, Sila, Suhăioasa, Valea lui Stan, Mesteacănu, Valea Satului, Valea Seacă and Dăneasa Lotru The Lotru is a right tributary of the Olt River in Romania. Its source is in the Parâng Mountains. It flows into the Olt near the town Brezoi. It passes
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]  Mehran Kushk (, also Romanized as Mehrān Kūshk; also known as Mīrān Kush) is a village in Baghestan Rural District, in the Eslamiyeh District of Ferdows County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 418, in 139 families.
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]  Mehran Khaghani is a standup comedian, comedic director, and comedy event producer based in the Boston Metro area, of Iranian descent. In 2010, a reader survey in the Boston Phoenix named him Boston's best comedian of the year. Born in London to Iranian parents, Mehran grew up in the United Kingdom, Iran, Turkey and the suburbs of Boston. In 1993, at the age of 17, he cofounded Lexington High School's first GLBT organization, called Bi-GLASS, with two fellow students, Fred Simon, now a New York-based visual artist, and musician Amanda Palmer, longtime frontwoman of The Dresden Dolls and now a solo artist. After years in the hospitality industry and a four-year stint holding various administrative positions at Harvard University (including a year as Project Manager to the Office of the President and Provost under former President, Larry Summers ) Mehran began pursuing a career
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]   Kushkak is a village in Balkh Province in northern Afghanistan.
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP] Mehran University of Engineering and Technology
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]  Mehran was born in Tehran on 11 November 1977, to an accountant father and her mother Shahin was a teacher. Both practiced Iran’s Baháʼí Faith, which was considered heretical by hardline Islam. When, a year later, the Shah’s regime began to crumble, the couple began to make plans to leave. After the storming of the American embassy in Tehran upended their plan to move to the USA, the family instead migrated to Buenos Aires, Argentina, in 1979, at the time of the Iranian Revolution. Mehran grew up in Argentina and the United States, as well as lived in Australia and Ireland. In their new home, political upheaval, this time associated with the rule of the Argentine junta, forced the family to once more move
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP] Mehran Kushk  Mehran Kushk (, also Romanized as Mehrān Kūshk; also known as Mīrān Kush) is a village in Baghestan Rural District, in the Eslamiyeh District of Ferdows County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 418, in 139 families.
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]
In what country is Mehran Kushk? [SEP]
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]  Astrodomi observatory is an astronomical observatory located in Tigre, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It has observatory code I37.
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]  The National Observatory of Athens (NOA; Εθνικό Αστεροσκοπείο Αθηνών) is a research institute in Athens, Greece. Founded in 1842, it is the oldest research foundation in Greece, as it was the first scientific research institute built after Greece became independent in 1829, and one of the oldest research institutes in Southern Europe.
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]  observatory works together with foreign astronomers on a number of issues. During the existence of the observatory, its staff published more than 2,500 articles in foreign and local journals.The solar physics and solar-earth problems have involved close cooperation with researchers in Russia, Germany, Israel, Bulgaria, and Georgia and different astronomical organizations of other countries. Star physics research is being carried out with Russian Observatory staff (Russian EA KhAR, Moscow State University of Schnberg State Astronomical Institute, St. Petersburg DU, etc.). The mobile station of Stanford University operates in the observatory. Students and practitioners from many foreign countries, including Russia, Ukraine, Iran and Turkey come to the Observatory to learn how to use the telescope. Many of the results obtained in the observatory have been cited by world academics.
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]  now located in these premises. ; The Kryoneri Astronomical Station was established in 1972. It is located in Northern Peloponnese, on the top of mountain Kilini (37.96667°N, 22.61667°W) at an altitude of 930 m. It is equipped with a 1.2 m Cassegrain reflector telescope manufactured and installed in 1975 by the British company Grubb Parsons Co., Newcastle. It is one of the largest telescopes in Greece, with many successful scientific observations during its long operation (scientific observations started in 1975). Currently, the telescope is being upgraded in the framework of the ESA program NELIOTA, which will monitor the lunar surface for impacts of meteoroids. ; Chelmos Observatory 37.9857°N, 22.1983°W in the northwestern part of Peloponnese, which is the site of the Aristarchos 2.3 m Telescope operated by the Institute for Astronomy, Astrophysics, Space Applications and Remote Sensing. The National Observatory of Athens operates in four locations:
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP] The central premises of the National Observatory of Athens are situated at the historic site on top of Hill of the Nymphs (in Greek: Λόφος Νυμφών) at Thiseio. Nymphon Hill borders with Philopappou Hill and is opposite to the Acropolis and the Athenian Agora. They house the central administration as well as the Institute of Geodynamics. ; The Penteli Astronomical Station is situated on a hill known as "Koufou" (Lofos Koufou in Greek), which is located in the municipality of Penteli, (38.04798°N, 23.86444°W) at the northern suburbs of Athens. It is best known as the site of the historic 62.5 cm Newall refractor (built by British instrument maker Thomas Cooke in 1869), which was installed there in 1959, and it is now used for public outreach. The Institute for Astronomy, Astrophysics, Space Applications and Remote Sensing as well as the Institute for Environmental Research and Sustainable Development
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP] Astrodomi Observatory  Astrodomi observatory is an astronomical observatory located in Tigre, Buenos Aires Province, Argentina. It has observatory code I37.<ref name="MPC-obs-codes" />
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP] I37  I37 or I-37 may refer to:
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP]
In what country is Astrodomi Observatory? [SEP] NGC 1406  NGC 1406 is almost edge-on barred spiral galaxy in constellation Fornax. It was discovered by John Herschel on 18 November 1835.  It is a member of Fornax Cluster, a cluster of 200 galaxies. At a distance of 50 million light-years, it is one of the closest members of the Fornax cluster. NGC 1406 has a Hubble classification of SBbc, which indicates it is a barred spiral galaxy. It is also edge-on, making its bar hard to see. NGC 1406 has much dust in its disc, which is visible on the Hubble image in the box upper right.  Its size on night sky is 3.9' x 0.7' which is proportional to real size of 75,000 light-years. This means NGC 1406 is one of the larger galaxies in Fornax Cluster. It is north and distant from central galaxy NGC 1399, so it position in the Fornax Cluster is at the edge of it.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]  He was born in Çorlu, Tekirdağ Province in 1976. He is of mixed Albanian and Turkish origin. After finishing high school in Tekirdağ, Murat Çetinkaya was educated in International Relations at Boğaziçi University in Istanbul.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]  Muratdağı is a village in the District of Buharkent, Aydın Province, Turkey. As of 2010 it had a population of 49 people.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]  What Buelent, Murat, Fatos and Ciğdem share are memories of their childhood and youth in Germany. Now all of them live in Istanbul, three against their will. Fatos and Murat were forced to go to Turkey by their parents, Buelent was deported five years ago. Only Cigdem, the young manager with a German passport freely opted for a life in Istanbul. But even after decades in their parents country of origin, the other three have never really managed to make it their home. Instead, they have constructed a surrogate Germany for themselves.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]  Murat Yaçıntaş is a business man and civic leader in Istanbul, Turkey. Yalçıntaş began his education (1977–1984) at Saint Joseph French Lycée in Istanbul. He studied mechanical engineering at Bosphorus University and holds a Joint master's degree (1988–1990) from Boston University and Vrije Universiteit Brussel in Corporate Management. He completed his Ph.D. at the Faculty of Management, Istanbul University, focusing on customer service in the service industry. A father of three, Dr. Yalçıntaş speaks fluent English and French and intermediate German and Arabic.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]  Murat Özyeğin (born January 10, 1976, in Istanbul) is a Turkish businessman. He is a second-generation member of one of the wealthiest families of Turkey, and son of a self-made billionaire Hüsnü Özyeğin. He is a member of the executive board of FIBA Holding and a member of the board of trustees of Özyeğin University.
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP]
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP] Özkan Murat Özkan Murat (born January 25, 1957, in BAF-TRNC) is a Minister of Interior in the 20th Government of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC). Confirmed in April 2005, he holds the Interior Ministry portfolio under Prime Minister Ferdi Sabit Soyer. Murat graduated from the University of Istanbul School of Law in 1980. He had been the chairman of İKÖK in his education years. He worked as an attorney between 1983 and 1993. He then represented Lefkoşa as a parliamenter (1993–1998). He had his first chair at the Board of Ministers as Minister of Labour and Social Security
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP] Murat Yalçıntaş Murat Yaçıntaş is a business man and civic leader in Istanbul, Turkey. Dr. Murat Yalçıntaş began his education (1977–1984) at Saint Joseph French Lycée in Istanbul. He studied mechanical engineering at Bosphorus University and holds a Joint master's degree (1988–1990) from Boston University and Vrije Universiteit Brussel in Corporate Management. He completed his Ph.D at the Faculty of Management, Istanbul University, focusing on customer service in the service industry. A father of three, Dr. Yalçıntaş speaks fluent English and French and intermediate German and Arabic. Throughout his career, Dr. Murat Yalçıntaş has held various positions at different institutions
In what country is Muratdere? [SEP] the Ottoman Sultan Murat I, who liked the area as a watering hole so much he camped here.Therefore, the place was named after him, which is originally "Murateli" that means "under protection of Murat" . There have been settlements here for a long, long time and groundworks in the area often turn up copper and pottery artefacts. Despite having good flat farmland watered by the River Ergene, and the beginnings of industrial development too, Muratlı is insignificant and sandwiched between the larger towns of Tekirdağ and Çorlu. The town consists of one or two shopping streets, a couple of banks
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]  Miętkie-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Mircze, within Hrubieszów County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine.
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]  Mieleszki-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gródek, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 6 km south-east of Gródek and 36 km east of the regional capital Białystok. The village has a population of 90.
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]  Mielenko-Kolonia (Klein Möllen-Cölln) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Mielno, within Koszalin County, West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-western Poland. It lies approximately 12 km north-west of Koszalin and 132 km north-east of the regional capital Szczecin. Before 1637 the area was part of Duchy of pomerania. For the history of the region, see History of Pomerania.
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]  Kostuszyn-Kolonia is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ciechanowiec, within Wysokie Mazowieckie County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. The village has a population of 50.
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]   Kolonia Lubeckiego (English: Lubecki Colony) is a historical housing estate in the Ochota district of Warsaw, Poland, bordered by the streets Fitrowa, Krzywickiego, Wawelska, Grójecka and Plac Narutowicza. The area is characterized by houses built during the interwar period, with many trees and green spaces.
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP] Gmina Mircze  Gmina Mircze is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Hrubieszów County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland, on the border with Ukraine. Its seat is the village of Mircze, which lies approximately south of Hrubieszów and south-east of the regional capital Lublin.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 7,780 (7,579 in 2013).
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]
In what country is Miętkie-Kolonia? [SEP]
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]  of natural sciences. The area of interest is mainly biology (including neuroscience), medicine, physics, chemistry, geography, geology (including speleology), meteorology and science education. The Society organizes scientific and popular scientific conferences, e.g. Brain Awareness Week (in Cracow and Szczecin), and the Biological Olympiad, a competition for Polish high school students. It publishes two journals - from 1876 'Kosmos. Problemy Nauk Biologicznych' (the title in English translation: Cosmos. Problems of Biological Sciences) and since 1882 - 'Wszechświat. Pismo Przyrodnicze' (the title in English: The Universe. Magazine of Nature). The Main Board of the Society is located in Cracow. It has six local branches in Cracow, Łódź, Wrocław, Szczecin, Lublin and Rzeszów. There are three sections:
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]  modernizing and making more attractive the forms of teaching so that students graduating from our University be well prepared to meet the needs of their profession, but also call the period of studies as one of the best in their lives. Students wanting more of their studies may deepen their knowledge and become acquainted with the methodology of scientific research by joining one of some 20 Student Scientific Groups, now with almost 100 members. On December 6-7th, 2000, All-Polish Conference of the Student Scientific Groups was held. Furthermore, members of the Student Scientific Society participate in national and foreign conferences. Following their graduation and an internship of 12 months some of these students join the staff of their Alma Mater each year.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]  The Polish Physical Society was established during an organizational meeting on 11 April 1920 in Warsaw. Władysław Natanson was appointed the first president of the society. In 1932, the society's reports were reorganized into science journal Acta Physica Polonica. In 1949, the first issue of Postępy Fizyki magazine was published. Since 1951, the Polish Physical Society has been organizing physics olympiads across Poland. In 1970, the first issue of Reports on Mathematical Physics was published in Toruń. In 2005, the first direct elections of the society's governing body were held using electronic voting. In 2006, PTF has become a public benefit organization. The society has 1977 ordinary members as well as 18 supporting members. It consists of 19 regional centres located in Bydgoszcz, Białystok, Częstochowa, Gdańsk, Gliwice, Katowice, Kielce, Kraków, Lublin, Łódź, Opole, Poznań, Rzeszów, Słupsk, Szczecin, Toruń, Wrocław, Warszawa and Zielona Góra. In 2008, the society established a department which deals with supporting women physicists, debunking stereotypes and encouraging girls to take up STEM subjects with particular emphasis on physics.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]  Society of Friends of Science in Wilno (Towarzystwo Przyjaciół Nauk w Wilnie) was a Polish scientific society which functioned in Wilno (since 1945 Vilnius) from 1906 to 1939. The Society was involved with the reopening of the Stefan Batory University in Wilno. One of its presidents was Marian Zdziechowski, a popular figure in the pre-World War II Wilno. The Society was destroyed during World War II by the occupying authorities.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]  West Pomeranian University of Technology, Szczecin (Zachodniopomorski Uniwersytet Technologiczny w Szczecinie, ZUT) is a technical university in Szczecin, Poland. The university was established on January 1. 2009 in Szczecin, from the merger of the Agricultural University in Szczecin and the Szczecin University of Technology. The first rector of the University was Professor Włodzimierz Kiernożycki. The University has 10 faculties with 47 fields of study. The university employs 2.3 thousand employees, and about 15 thousand studends are taught on the University. The main goal of the University's activity is to educate and conduct scientific research in the field of technical, agricultural, economic, biological, chemical and mathematical sciences.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP] Szczecin Scientific Society  Szczecin Scientific Society (Polish: "Szczecińskie Towarzystwo Naukowe", STN, Latin: "Societas Scientarum Scecinensis") is a general scientific society in Szczecin, Poland, associating researchers of all scientific branches.  It was founded in 1956 with its headquarters in Szczecin as the main scientific society in the Western Pomerania region. Its main scope of activity is research on all aspects of (West) Pomeranian cities and regions, it organizes scientific conferences and popular lectures, publishes books and periodicals.  Main publications:
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP] Szczecin  Szczecin (,  , ; ; Latin: "Sedinum" or "Stetinum") is the capital and largest city of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship in northwestern Poland. Located near the Baltic Sea and the German border, it is a major seaport and Poland's seventh-largest city. As of December 2021, the population was 395,513.<ref name="population" />  Szczecin is located on the river Oder, south of the Szczecin Lagoon and the Bay of Pomerania. The city is situated along the southwestern shore of Dąbie Lake, on both sides of the Oder and on several large islands between the western and eastern branches of the river. Szczecin is adjacent to the town of Police and is the urban centre of the Szczecin agglomeration, an extended metropolitan area that includes communities in the German states of Brandenburg and Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania.  Szczecin is the administrative and industrial centre of West Pomeranian Voivodeship and is the site of the University of Szczecin, Pomeranian Medical University, Maritime University, West Pomeranian University of Technology, Szczecin Art Academy, and the see of the Szczecin-Kamień Catholic Archdiocese. The city's historical landmarks include the Szczecin Cathedral, the Pomeranian Dukes' Castle and the National Museum. From 1999 onwards, Szczecin has served as the site of the headquarters of NATO's Multinational Corps Northeast. The city was a candidate for the European Capital of Culture in 2016.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP]
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP] Stanisław Flejterski  Stanisław Flejterski (born September 10, 1948, in Tomaszów, Poland) is a Polish economist, professor of economic sciences. He is employed as full professor at Szczecin University.
In what country is Szczecin Scientific Society? [SEP] Pomeranian Medical University in Szczecin  Pomeranian Medical University (PMU) was established in 1948 in Szczecin, Poland. It is referred to as "Pomorski Uniwersytet Medyczny" in Polish.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]  Märstetten is a municipality in the district of Weinfelden in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]  Märstetten railway station is a stop of the Zürich S-Bahn on services S24 and S30.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]  Märstetten has a population of. , 10.6% of the population are foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (1997–2007) the population has changed at a rate of 9.9%. Most of the population speaks German (94.8%), with Albanian being second most common ( 1.6%) and Italian being third ( 0.8%). , the gender distribution of the population was 49.4% male and 50.6% female. The population was made up of 1,057 Swiss men (43.5% of the population), and 144 (5.9%) non-Swiss men. There were 1,116 Swiss women (45.9%), and 114 (4.7%) non-Swiss women. In there were 14 live births to Swiss citizens and 4 births to non-Swiss citizens, and in same time span there were 11
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]  Märstetten railway station is a railway station in the Swiss canton of Thurgau and the municipality of Märstetten. The station is located on the Winterthur–Romanshorn railway line. It is an intermediate stop on Zurich S-Bahn services S24 and S30.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]  Scattered finds from the Neolithic era, Roman ruins and a series of grave from the Early Middle Ages show that there was a continuous settlement in the area. In the High Middle Ages the Baron of Märstetten had a castle located above the church. The modern municipality of Märstetten is first mentioned in 1155 as Marsteten when the Cathedral of Constance granted it as a fief to the Freiherr von Klingen. The court of Märstetten included the village as well as Illhart and Wigoltingen. In 1724 a portion of Ruberbaum and some other farms were added to the court. In 1395 the court was acquired by Wilhelm von Enne, followed by the Muntprat family
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP]
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP] Friedrichshafen  Friedrichshafen ( ; Low Alemannic: "Hafe" or "Fridrichshafe") is a city on the northern shoreline of Lake Constance (the "Bodensee") in Southern Germany, near the borders of both Switzerland and Austria. It is the district capital ("Kreisstadt") of the Bodensee district in the federal state of Baden-Württemberg. Friedrichshafen has a population of about 58,000.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP] Weinfelden  Weinfelden is a municipality in the canton of Thurgau in Switzerland. It is the capital of the district of the same name.  Weinfelden is an old town, which was known during Roman times as Quivelda (Winis Feld).  Weinfelden is mostly known throughout Switzerland for its hockey team, HC Thurgau which is currently playing in the Swiss League.
In what country is Märstetten? [SEP] Weinfelden District  Weinfelden District is one of the five districts of the canton of Thurgau, Switzerland. It has a population of (as of ). Its capital is the town of Weinfelden.  The district contains the following municipalities:
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP]  Riethnordhausen is a municipality in the Sömmerda district of Thuringia, Germany.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP]  Riethnordhausen is situated in the Rieth in the lower Helme valley, north-east of the Kyffhäuser and south-west of Sangerhausen, the capital of the Mansfeld-Südharz, from which the connecting road leads to the place, which crosses here with the road between Kelbra and Artern.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP]  Riethnordhausen is a village and a former municipality in the Mansfeld-Südharz district, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Since 1 July 2009, it is part of the municipality Wallhausen.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP]  The Rieth is a district in the north of the Thuringian state capital Erfurt, Germany. Rieth is a prefabricated housing estate with 5650 inhabitants (as of 31 December 2012) on an area of 0.72 km², built in 1969. Before the fall of communism, however, considerably more people lived in this district. Neighbouring districts are Hohenwinden-Sulza (industrial area) in the east, Ilversgehofen (Gründerzeit district) in the south, Berliner Platz (prefabricated housing area) in the west, Moskauer Platz (prefabricated housing area) in the northwest, Gispersleben (village) in the north and Roter Berg (prefabricated housing area) in the northeast. The district is situated on the river Gera, its centre is the Platz der Völkerfreundschaft with the shopping centre Vilnius-Passagen. The adjoining district Berliner Platz is
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP]  Riedenburg is a town in the district of Kelheim, in Bavaria, Germany. It is situated on the river Altmühl, 16 km northwest of Kelheim and 29 km northeast of Ingolstadt. Prunn Castle (de) is located in Riedenburg. The town is on the Rhine–Main–Danube Canal. On the evening of 5 June 2019, a Viking ship, initially said to be the Viking Var, damaged the lock of Riedenburg, on the canal. After the impact, the lock could not be properly closed. No one was injured in the accident. The repair was expected to take two to three weeks to complete. Later reports indicated the vessel involved in that incident was actually the Viking Tir. The site Vessel Tracker stated that this ship returned to Regensburg a few hours later and remained there; its records indicate that the Tir did not continue on to Budapest until 13 June.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP] Riethnordhausen, Saxony-Anhalt  Riethnordhausen is a village and a former municipality in the Mansfeld-Südharz district, Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Since 1 July 2009, it is part of the municipality Wallhausen.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP] Riethnordhausen, Thuringia  Riethnordhausen is a municipality in the Sömmerda district of Thuringia, Germany.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP] Wallhausen, Saxony-Anhalt  Wallhausen is a municipality in the Mansfeld-Südharz district of Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. It is located on the Helme river north of the Kyffhäuser mountain range and the border with Thuringia. Wallhausen is part of the "Verbandsgemeinde" ("collective municipality") Goldene Aue. The municipality consists of the 4 villages Wallhausen, Hohlstedt, Martinsrieth and Riethnordhausen. The former municipalities Martinsrieth and Riethnordhausen were absorbed into Wallhausen in July 2009.  In 909 Henry the Fowler, the son of Duke Otto I of Saxony, married Matilda at the "Pfalz" of Wallhausen, their son Otto was possibly born here in 912. King Otto III gave the castle to his aunt Abbess Matilda of Quedlinburg in 985. Wallhausen later was a possession of the Saxon Electorate, it became part of the Prussian Province of Saxony in 1815. Wallhausen Castle was owned by the House of Asseburg from 1414 until the expropriation in the Soviet occupation zone in 1945.
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP] Erfurt  Erfurt () is the capital and largest city in the Central German state of Thuringia. It is located in the wide valley of the Gera river (progression: ), in the southern part of the Thuringian Basin, north of the Thuringian Forest. It sits in the middle of an almost straight line of cities consisting of the six largest Thuringian cities forming the central metropolitan corridor of the state, the "Thuringian City Chain" ("") with more than 500,000 inhabitants, stretching from Eisenach in the west, via Gotha, Erfurt, Weimar and Jena, to Gera in the east. Erfurt and the city of Göttingen in southern Lower Saxony are the two cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants closest to the geographic center of Germany. Erfurt is located south-west of Leipzig, north-east of Frankfurt, south-west of Berlin and north of Munich.  Erfurt's old town is one of the best preserved medieval city centres in Germany. Tourist attractions include the Merchants' Bridge ("Krämerbrücke"), the Old Synagogue ("Alte Synagoge"), the oldest still standing synagogue in Europe, Cathedral Hill ("Domberg") with the ensemble of Erfurt Cathedral ("Erfurter Dom") and St Severus' Church ("Severikirche") and Petersberg Citadel ("Zitadelle Petersberg"), one of the largest and best preserved town fortresses in Central Europe. The city's economy is based on agriculture, horticulture and microelectronics. Its central location has made it a logistics hub for Germany and central Europe. Erfurt hosts the second-largest trade fair in eastern Germany (after Leipzig), as well as the public television children's channel KiKa.  The city is situated on the Via Regia, a medieval trade and pilgrims' road network. Modern day Erfurt is also a hub for ICE high speed trains and other German and European transport networks. Erfurt was first mentioned in 742, as Saint Boniface founded the diocese. Although the town did not belong to any of the Thuringian states politically, it quickly became the economic centre of the region and it was a member of the Hanseatic League. It was part of the Electorate of Mainz during the Holy Roman Empire, and later became part of the Kingdom of Prussia in 1802. From 1949 until 1990 Erfurt was part of the German Democratic Republic (East Germany).  The University of Erfurt was founded in 1379, making it the first university to be established within the geographic area which constitutes modern-day Germany. It closed in 1816 and was re-established in 1994, with the main modern campus on what was a teachers' training college. Martin Luther (1483–1546) was its most famous student, studying there from 1501 before entering St Augustine's Monastery in 1505. Other noted Erfurters include the medieval philosopher and mystic Meister Eckhart (c. 1260–1328), the Baroque composer Johann Pachelbel (1653–1706) and the sociologist Max Weber (1864–1920).
In what country is Riethnordhausen? [SEP] Weimar  Weimar is a city in the state of Thuringia, Germany. It is located in Central Germany between Erfurt in the west and Jena in the east, approximately southwest of Leipzig, north of Nuremberg and west of Dresden. Together with the neighbouring cities of Erfurt and Jena, it forms the central metropolitan area of Thuringia, with approximately 500,000 inhabitants. The city itself has a population of 65,000. Weimar is well known because of its large cultural heritage and its importance in German history.  The city was a focal point of the German Enlightenment and home of the leading figures of the literary genre of Weimar Classicism, writers Johann Wolfgang von Goethe and Friedrich Schiller. In the 19th century, noted composers such as Franz Liszt made Weimar a music centre. Later, artists and architects such as Henry van de Velde, Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Lyonel Feininger, and Walter Gropius came to the city and founded the Bauhaus movement, the most important German design school of the interwar period.  The political history of 20th-century Weimar was volatile: it was the place where Germany's first democratic constitution was signed after the First World War, giving its name to the Weimar Republic period in German politics (1918–33). It was also one of the cities mythologized by National Socialist propaganda.  Until 1948, Weimar was the capital of Thuringia. Many places in the city centre have been designated as UNESCO World Heritage Sites, either as part of the Classical Weimar complex (containing monuments to the classical period of Weimar in 18th and 19th centuries) or the Bauhaus complex (containing buildings associated with the Bauhaus art school). Heritage tourism is one of the leading economic sectors of Weimar.  Noted institutions in Weimar are the Bauhaus University, the Liszt School of Music, the Duchess Anna Amalia Library, and two leading courts of Thuringia (the Supreme Administrative Court and Constitutional Court). In 1999, Weimar was the European Capital of Culture.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]  Tervola Radio and TV-Mast is a mast in Tervola, Finland. It has a height of 302 metres (991 feet).
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]  Anjalankoski Radio and TV-Mast is a mast in Kouvola, Finland. It has a height of 318 m.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]  The Tervola railway station is located in the municipality of Tervola in Lapland, Finland. The distance to the Helsinki Central railway station is 900.5 kilometres, measured via the Haapamäki and Seinäjoki railway station. The station was taken into use when the track between Kemi and Rovaniemi was completed in 1909. All passenger trains between Kemi and Rovaniemi stop at Tervola. The station does not serve cargo traffic. The traffic control is handled remotely from the Oulu railway station. The trackyard has one drive-through side track and one loading track.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP] 165 metres tall guyed mast used for FM-/TV-broadcasting
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]  Radio and TV Museum, also known as Mastola, is a museum located in Lahti, Finland. The museum is near the city centre on the Radiomäki hill (literally translated to Radio Hill). Next to the museum building are two 150-meter-high radio masts built in 1927. The masts are a well-known landmark and a symbol of the city. The museum operates in a radio station building designed by a Finnish architect Kaarlo Könönen and built in 1935. The Radio and TV Museum was opened in 1993. The museum went through an extensive renovation between the years 2014–2016 and reopened in 2017. The museum operates under the Lahti City Museum. The Radio and TV Museum collects, researches and exhibits objects related to radio and television especially in Finland. It is a national specialist museum in its field. Visitors can experience old radio and television programmes and see equipment of different eras. The museum also hosts temporary exhibitions, seminars and events.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP] Tervola Radio and TV-Mast  Tervola Radio and TV-Mast is a mast in Tervola, Finland. It has a height of 302 metres (991 feet).
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP] List of tallest structures in Finland  A list of the tallest structures in Finland. This list contains all types of structures.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP] List of transmission sites  In the following there are lists of sites of notable radio transmitters. During the early history of radio many countries had only a few high power radio stations, operated either by the government or large corporations, which broadcast to the population or to other countries. Because of the large number of transmission sites, this list is not complete. Outside of Europe senders and repeater stations are emphatically presented from international services.
In what country is Tervola Radio and TV-Mast? [SEP]
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]  Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium is located by the Narsingdi Circuit House and NKM High School & Homes in Narsingdi, Bangladesh. It is one of the biggest stadiums in the district. Now its name has changed. Its name is Saheed Musleh Uddin Bhuiyan Stadium
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]  Mymensingh stadium (also called Mymensingh Zilla Stadium), officially Rafiq Uddin Bhuiyan Stadium, is located by the side of Tangail Bus Terminal in the district of Mymensingh, Bangladesh. It is a multipurpose stadium. Cricket, football and cultural programs take place here.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]  Sailen Manna Stadium (also known as Howrah Municipal Corporation Stadium) is a multi-use stadium in Howrah, West Bengal, India. It is mainly used  for football matches and hosted some matches during the AFC Youth Championship 2006. The capacity of the stadium is 15,000 people. Howrah Rugby Crows and several football clubs use the venue for home games.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]  Rafiq Uddin Bhuiyan Stadium, Mymensingh is the new home venue of the club from 2018–19 season. The club used Banganbandhu National Stadium as their home venue in first two seasons of their football journey.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]  Bangabandhu National Stadium (বঙ্গবন্ধু জাতীয় স্টেডিয়াম), also known as Dhaka Stadium, and formerly known as Dacca Stadium, is the national stadium and a multipurpose sports arena in Dhaka, Bangladesh. It is located in the Motijheel area in the heart of the city. The stadium has been renovated several times, most recently for the opening ceremony of the 2011 Cricket World Cup. It had a capacity close to 55,000 before the most recent renovation, but with a new capacity of 36,000 it is still the largest stadium in Bangladesh. Its current name was given to honour Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the father of the nation, also known as "Bangabandhu" or "Friend of Bengal". The Bangabandhu National Stadium is one of the main football venues in Dhaka, together with the 25,000 capacity Bir Shreshtha Mustafa Kamal Stadium.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP] Bhuiyan  Bhuiyan (also Bhuiya, Bhuyan, Bhuya) is a surname found in Bangladesh and in India, especially in Assam.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP] Bengali language movement  The Bengali language movement () was a political movement in former East Bengal (renamed East Pakistan in 1952) advocating the recognition of the Bengali language as an official language of the then-Dominion of Pakistan in order to allow its use in government affairs, the continuation of its use as a medium of education, its use in media, currency and stamps, and to maintain its writing in the Bengali script.  When the Dominion of Pakistan was formed after the separation of the Indian subcontinent in 1947 when the British left, it was composed of various ethnic and linguistic groups, with the geographically non-contiguous East Bengal province having a mainly Bengali population. In 1948, the Government of the Dominion of Pakistan ordained as part of Islamization and Arabization of East Pakistan or East Bengal that Urdu will be the sole national language, alternately Bengali writing in Arabic script or Arabic as the state language of the whole of Pakistan was also proposed,<ref name="ES"/> sparking extensive protests among the Bengali-speaking majority of East Bengal. Facing rising sectarian tensions and mass discontent with the new law, the government outlawed public meetings and rallies. The students of the University of Dhaka and other political activists defied the law and organised a protest on 21 February 1952. The movement reached its climax when police killed student demonstrators on that day. The deaths provoked widespread civil unrest. After years of conflict, the central government relented and granted official status to the Bengali language in 1956.  The Language Movement catalysed the assertion of Bengali national identity in East Bengal and later East Pakistan, and became a forerunner to Bengali nationalist movements, including the 6-Point Movement and subsequently the Bangladesh Liberation War and the Bengali Language Implementation Act, 1987. In Bangladesh, 21 February ("Ekushey February") is observed as Language Movement Day, a national holiday. The Shaheed Minar monument was constructed near Dhaka Medical College in memory of the movement and its victims. In 1999, UNESCO declared 21 February as International Mother Language Day, in tribute to the Language Movement and the ethno-linguistic rights of people around the world.
In what country is Abdul Mannan Bhuiyan Stadium? [SEP]
In what country is Alu? [SEP]  Abraham Lincoln University (ALU) is a private, for-profit online university based in Glendale, California.
In what country is Alu? [SEP]  Alu is a small borough (alevik) in Rapla Parish, Rapla County, Estonia. It's located about 3 km northwest of the town of Rapla. Alu has a population of c. 950. Alu was first mentioned in 1241 as Alafæ village in the Danish Census Book.
In what country is Alu? [SEP]  Many educational institutions are located in Aluva.
In what country is Alu? [SEP]  Al-Ahliyya Amman University (AAU) (or Amman University, or Amman Private University) is located in Amman, Jordan. Founded in 1990, it was the first private university in Jordan. The university is accredited by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, Jordan, and is a member of four university associations. AAU have students from across 30 plus countries across the world.
In what country is Alu? [SEP]  Alu is a village in Tõstamaa Parish, Pärnu County, in southwestern Estonia. It has a population of 18 (as of 1 January 2011).
In what country is Alu? [SEP] Alu, Estonia  Alu is a small borough () in Rapla Parish, Rapla County, Estonia. It's located about northwest of the town of Rapla. Alu has a population of c. 950.  Alu was first mentioned in 1241 as "Alafæ" village in the Danish Census Book.
In what country is Alu? [SEP] African Leadership University  African Leadership University or ALU is a network of tertiary institutions with operations in both Mauritius and Rwanda with a bachelor's degree.   ALU's first campus was launched in September 2015 in Mauritius and is known as the African Leadership College. Its second campus was launched in September 2017 in Kigali, Rwanda.
In what country is Alu? [SEP]
In what country is Alu? [SEP] Alu, Ardabil  Alu (, also Romanized as Ālū, Āllū, and Alov) is a village in Sanjabad-e Shomali Rural District, in the Central District of Kowsar County, Ardabil Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 86, in 17 families.
In what country is Alu? [SEP] Im Nin'alu  "Im Nin'alu" () (English: "If the gates are locked") is a Hebrew poem by 17th-century Rabbi Shalom Shabazi. It has been placed to music and sung by Israeli singer Ofra Haza and others. Haza first performed this song with the Shechunat Hatikva Workshop Theatre, appearing on television on IBA's General Television in 1978. The original version was included on the 1984 album "Yemenite Songs", also known as "Fifty Gates of Wisdom". The remixed version was part of her international debut "Shaday" of 1988.  "In Nin'alu" went on to become famous in Europe when a remixed version of the song, produced by Izhar Ashdot, reached the top 10 in many countries. The single reached number one in Finland, Norway, Spain, Switzerland and West Germany, where it stayed nine weeks atop the singles chart in mid-1988. In the United Kingdom, the track was a top-20 hit, peaking at number 15, and in the United States, it reached number 15 on "Billboard"s Hot Dance Club Play chart and number 18 on the Modern Rock Tracks chart. The single reportedly sold some three million copies worldwide, making it one of the first world music recordings to extend over to mainstream pop chart success. London-based duo Coldcut produced a remix of Eric B. & Rakim's "Paid In Full", which heavily samples "Im Nin'alu".  Even though Haza's version of the song shows her own interpretation, and its reception was present-day and popular, it still fits in with the Yemenite tradition that she represented. In 1997, Haza re-recorded the track for her eponymous album "Ofra Haza", produced by Frank Peterson of Enigma and Gregorian. The German promo 12-inch for the album's lead single "Show Me" also featured two remixes of "Im Nin'Alu". And in 2008 two new remixes were included on the greatest hits compilation "Forever Ofra Haza – Her Greatest Songs Remixed".  The international follow-up single to "Im Nin'Alu (Played In Full)" in 1988 was a remix of the track "Galbi", also originally from the "Yemenite Songs" album.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]  Chotýčany (Schmiedgraben) is a village and municipality (obec) in České Budějovice District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 5.19 km2, and has a population of 207 (as at 31 December 2007). Chotýčany lies approximately 11 km north of České Budějovice and 114 km south of Prague.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]  Chotýšany is a municipality and village in Benešov District in the Central Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 600 inhabitants.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]  The population is roughly 99% Slovak.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]  Chotylub (Хотилюб, Khotyliub) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Cieszanów, within Lubaczów County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km east of Cieszanów, 14 km north-east of Lubaczów, and 93 km east of the regional capital Rzeszów. The village has a population of 530.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]  Chomle is a village and municipality (obec) in Rokycany District in the Plzeň Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 2.24 km2, and has a population of 70 (as at 28 August 2006). Chomle lies approximately 14 km north of Rokycany, 23 km north-east of Plzeň, and 62 km south-west of Prague.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP]
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP] List of municipalities in the Czech Republic  List of municipalities of the Czech Republic, located in Central Europe.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP] it was annexed by Poland, administratively organised in Frysztat County of Silesian Voivodeship. The village was then annexed by Nazi Germany at the beginning of World War II. After the war it was restored to Czechoslovakia. Louky is a classic example of the devastation wrought by heavy industry, in this case, coal mining. The centre of the village was originally located north of today's settlement. During the Communist era, extensive mining activities irrevocably damaged the original village. Surface waters were polluted, farmland was degraded, the whole area was undermined, new ponds appeared, the water level rose, and mine tailings accumulated.
In what country is Chotýčany? [SEP] Rokycany Rokycany (; ) is a town in the Plzeň Region of the Czech Republic. It is east of the region capital Plzeň on the confluence of the River Klabava and the Holoubkov Brook (). Alternatively, the Holoubkovský potok is referred to as the Borecký potok and the section of the Klabava River down to the confluence as the Padrťský potok. There is another smaller brook (Rakovský potok or Rakováček) in the western part of the town. The town is in the lowland, above sea level, bordered by hilly woodlands, especially the Brdy mountains to the east and the Radeč
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]  The Asseek River is a river in the Central Coast region of British Columbia, Canada, flowing north out of the Pacific Ranges to enter saltwater at the head of South Bentinck Arm. The name has been used since 1930, but an earlier map from 1913 shows it as the Talolail River. Also entering South Bentinck Arm a few miles north on the east side of the inlet is the Taleomey River, whose estuary forms Taleomey Narrows, a constriction of the inlet, and also where is the location of Taleomy Indian Reserve No. 3 of the Nuxalk Nation. Another constriction south of the Taleomey estuary, and immediately north of the Asseek's mouth is Bentinck Narrows, which is formed by the alluvial fan of Ickna Creek. There was a Nuxalk village named Aseik in the area of the Asseek's mouth, as was also Koapk.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]  The spring of the Tongelreep is southwest of Erpekom in Belgium, where the name is Jongemansbeek or Vrenenbeek. It then flows north by Brogel and Kaulille, where the local name is Kleine Broekbeek. The stream is joined by the Dorperloop just south of Sint-Huibrechts-Lille; this is where the stream starts being called Warmbeek. The Warmbeek is then led under the Bocholt-Herentals Canal and flows into a water-meadow. In this area the river is joined by a parallel canal, which was built to power the Grevenbroek mill. Continuing on to the Achel Abbey, the river is then joined by the Haagbroekerloop. Upon crossing the Dutch border, the river becomes the Tongelreep. The river was canaled at this point, but this was undone by Staatsbosbeheer after they bought the land from the Abbey monks. The current river runs west of the Leenderbos and past Valkenswaard. Water from the Tongelreep feeds several fishing ponds along the way to Aalst, where the Tongelreep enters the Genneper Parken area. Finally, the river reaches the Eindhoven Stadswandelpark and runs into the Dommel.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]  The Schipbeek is a tributary of the IJssel in the Netherlands and a continuation of the Buurserbeek. It flows into the IJssel near Deventer. The real source of the Schipbeek is in Germany - in western Northrhine-Westphalia - in the Ahauser Aa, to which the Alstätter Aa, the Buurserbeek and finally the Schipbeek are connected.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]  river further upstream are a reintroduced pontoon at Sendelingsdrift in the Richtersveld National Park, and road bridges at Vioolsdrif (the main border crossing between the two countries) and at the remote border crossing of Onseepkans. A vibrant fishing industry is found along this stretch of the South African west coast, especially in Port Nolloth, the major resort town of Namaqualand, and Hondeklipbaai, or Dogstonebay, called such because of a large boulder outside the town, which when viewed correctly, looks vaguely like a dog sitting down. Since the 19th century, copper has been mined at Springbok and its surrounding towns, while a large mine extracting copper, lead, zinc, and silver is located at Aggeneys, 110 km further inland.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]  The northern part of the river flows through an agricultural area. Further south, the Coesewijne flows through marshes, seasonally flooded grassland, and swamp forests. The Coesewijne is a meandering river which twists and turns through the landscape. The Coesewijne is a popular fishing river. During the dry season the creeks and swamps in the area start to dry up, resulting in an abundance of fish in the river. The river is home to a large population of caimans, giant otters and manatees. The upper course of the river has been protected as the Boven Coesewijne Nature Reserve since 1986.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP] Asseek River  The Asseek River is a river in the Central Coast region of British Columbia, Canada, flowing north out of the Pacific Ranges to enter saltwater at the head of South Bentinck Arm. The name has been used since 1930, but an earlier map from 1913 shows it as the Talolail River. Also entering South Bentinck Arm a few miles north on the east side of the inlet is the Taleomey River, whose estuary forms Taleomey Narrows, a constriction of the inlet, and also where is the location of Taleomy Indian Reserve No. 3 of the Nuxalk Nation. Another constriction south of the Taleomey estuary, and immediately north of the Asseek's mouth is Bentinck Narrows, which is formed by the alluvial fan of Ickna Creek.  There was a Nuxalk village named "Aseik" in the area of the Asseek's mouth, as was also "Koapk".
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP] Taleomey River  The Taleomey River is a river in the northernmost Pacific Ranges of the Coast Mountains in the Central Coast region of British Columbia, Canada, flowing west to South Bentinck Arm where its waters enter the sea a few miles north of the head of that inlet. The Asseek River also enters the head of South Bentinck Arm, flowing into its head from the south.  Immediately north of the Taleomey estuary, the Noeick River also enters South Bentinck Arm. On the north side of that river's mouth is the locality of South Bentinck.  Taleomy Indian Reserve No. 3, which is governed by the Nuxalk Nation, is located at the mouth of the Taleomey River. South Bentinck Arm is narrowed offshore from the estuary of the river by Taleomey Narrows.
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]
In what country is Asseek River? [SEP]
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]  Gąsiorowo is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Serock, within Legionowo County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]  Gąsiorowo (Ganshorn bei Gilgenburg) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Działdowo, within Działdowo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 17 km north of Działdowo and 50 km south-west of the regional capital Olsztyn. The village has a population of 263. Until 1945 it was part of Germany, in the province of East Prussia.
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]  Gąsiorowo (Groß Gonschorowen, historical variants Gonziorowen, Gonsoroffen; from 1938-45 Klinken) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wieliczki, within Olecko County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. Before 1945, the area was part of Germany (East Prussia).
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]  Gąsiorowo is a village within the administrative district of Gmina Zaręby Kościelne, within Ostrów Mazowiecka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]  This is a historic brick villa from the early 20th century, located at 78 Modlińska Street. It initially belonged to Stanislaw Bzury, the municipal physician and expert viticulturist (who produced wine for Count Potocki). A German commandant, in charge of troops guarding the river crossing to Warsaw, used it as his headquarters during World War II.
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP]
In what country is Gąsiorowo, Legionowo County? [SEP] Gmina Serock  Gmina Serock is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Legionowo County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. Its seat is the town of Serock, which lies approximately north-east of Legionowo and north of Warsaw.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 11,236 (out of which the population of Serock amounts to 3,721, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 7,515).
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]  Qeshlaq-e Pain (, also Romanized as Qeshlāq-e Pā'īn and Qeshlāq Pā’īn; also known as Kishlaa-Ashagi, Qeshlāq Ashāqī, Qeshlāq Soflá, and Qishlāq Ashāghi) is a village in Mavazekhan-e Shomali Rural District, Khvajeh District, Heris County, East Azerbaijan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 132, in 32 families.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]  Nehjaz-e Pain (, also Romanized as Nehjaz-e Pā’īn) is a village in Kakhk Rural District, Kakhk District, Gonabad County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11, in 4 families.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]  Qik-e Pain (, also Romanized as Qīḵ-e Pā’īn , Qehk-e Pā’īn, Qahak-e Pā’īn, and Qehak Pā’īn; also known as Qīḵ-e Soflá) is a village in Darmian Rural District, in the Central District of Darmian County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 164, in 46 families.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]  Pirjad-e Pain (, also Romanized as Pīrjad-e Pā’īn; also known as Pīrjed, Pīrjerd, and Pīr Jad) is a village in Koregah-e Sharqi Rural District, in the Central District of Khorramabad County, Lorestan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 107, in 24 families.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]  Pain Ahmad Chaleh Pey (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Aḩmad Chāleh Pey; also known as Anjelibei, Pā’īn Aḩmad, Pā’īn Aḩmad Chāl Pey, and Pā’īn Chāl) is a village in Lalehabad Rural District, Lalehabad District, Babol County, Mazandaran Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,684, in 445 families.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP] Jeqjeq-e Pain  Jeqjeq-e Pain is a village in the Ardabil Province of Iran.
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP] Jeqjeq  Jeqjeq or Jeq Jeq (), also rendered as Dzhigdzhig or Jighjigh or Jigjig, may refer to:
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]
In what country is Jeqjeq-e Pain? [SEP]
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]  The Dragomirna is a left tributary of the river Suceava in Romania. It flows into the Suceava in the city Suceava. Its length is 16 km and its basin size is 34 km2. Its lowermost course is shared with the river Mitoc, another left tributary of the Suceava.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]  The Dragor (Драгор) is a small river situated in the south of North Macedonia. It flows mainly through the city of Bitola. Its spring is located near Sapunčica, on the Baba Mountain. The Dragor is a right tributary of the Crna river.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]  The Dragonja (Dragogna) is a 30 km long river in the northern part of the Istrian peninsula. It is a meandering river with a very branched basin and a small quantity of water. It has a pluvial regime and often dries up in summer. It features very diverse living environments and is home to a number of animal and plant species. The Dragonja has been a matter of a territorial dispute between Croatia and Slovenia, with its lowest portion de facto the border of the two countries.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]  The main rivers that cross the district are: Vilia, Larga, Lopatnic (57 km), but rivers Racovăț (68 km) and Draghiște (67 km) crossing in the upper. Briceni District is in the Prut river basin. Most lakes are of artificial origin.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP] Danube/Dunaj ; Tisa (mouth at Novi Sad, Serbia) ; Slaná (at Tiszagyulaháza, H) ; Hornád (at Ónod, H) ; Torysa (at Nižná Hutka) ; Hnilec (at Margecany) ; Bodva (at Boldva, H) ; Turňa (near Turňa nad Bodvou) ; Ida (near Turňa nad Bodvou) ; Rimava (at Vlkyňa) ; Turiec (near Tornaľa) ; Muráň (at Bretka) ; Bodrog* (at Tokaj, H) [* the Bodrog arises through the confluence of the rivers Ondava and Latorica] ; Roňava (at Sátoraljaújhely, H) ; Ondava* (at Zemplín (village)) ; Topľa (at Tušice) ; Latorica* (at Zemplín) ; Laborec (at Zatín) ; Uzh/Uh (at Drahňov) ; Cirocha (at Humenné) ; Ipeľ (at Szob, H) ; Štiavnica (at Hrkovce) ; Krupinica (at Šahy) ; Krtíš (at Slovenské Ďarmoty) ; Tisovník (at Muľa) ; Hron (at Kamenica nad
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP] Dragomirna (Suceava)  The Dragomirna is a left tributary of the river Suceava in Romania. It flows into the Suceava in the city Suceava. Its length is and its basin size is . Its lowermost course is shared with the river Mitoc, another left tributary of the Suceava.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP] Mitoc (river)  The Mitoc is a left tributary of the river Suceava in Romania. It flows into the Suceava in the city Suceava. Its length is and its basin size is . Its lowermost course is shared with the river Dragomirna, another left tributary of the Suceava.
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP]
In what country is Dragomirna River? [SEP] Suceava  Suceava () is the largest urban settlement and the seat town () of Suceava County, situated in the historical region of Bukovina, northeastern Romania, and at the crossroads of Central and Eastern Europe respectively. During the late Middle Ages, namely between 1388 and 1564 (or from the late 14th century to the late 16th century), this middle-sized town was the capital of the Principality of Moldavia.  From 1775 to 1918, Suceava was controlled by the Habsburg Empire, initially part of its Kingdom of Galicia and Lodomeria, then gradually becoming the third most populous urban settlement of the Duchy of Bukovina, a constituent land of the Austrian Empire and subsequently a crown land within the Austrian part of Austria-Hungary. During this time, Suceava was an important, strategically-located commercial border town with the then Romanian Old Kingdom.   Throughout the Austrian-ruled period of Bukovina, Suceava was also regarded as a "miniature Austria" by native intellectual Rudolf Gassauer given its significant ethnic diversity (which, up until the early 20th century, included an overwhelming majority of ethnic Germans, more specifically Bukovina Germans, as well). An even older ethnic German presence in the town (as well as in the entire region of Bukovina) can be traced back to the end of the 14th century, during the late Middle Ages.  In the wake of World War I, after 1918, along with the rest of Bukovina, Suceava became part of the then newly enlarged Kingdom of Romania. After the end of World War II, the town slowly underwent a process of communist systematization which increased its population approximately tenfold throughout the decades prior to the 1989 Romanian Revolution. It became a municipality in 1968. Suceava is also crossed by the namesake river, a tributary of Siret, to the northwest, in the neighbourhood of Ițcani ().  An important market town at the crossroads of several Central and Eastern European commercial routes since the Middle Ages (toward the Kingdom of Hungary to the west and the Kingdom of Poland to the north), Suceava is still an important commercial town nowadays. Furthermore, The CFR 500 highway crosses it, which is a railway junction and thus from here the railway line then branches off to Transylvania to the west.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]  Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād-e Razzāqzādeh and Moḩammadābād Razzāqzādeh; also known as Moḩammadābād) is a village in Shusef Rural District, Shusef District, Nehbandan County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 127, in 44 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]  محمد آباد (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād and Mohammadābād) is a village in Sefiddasht, in the Central District of Aran va Bidgol County, Isfahan, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,903, in 462 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]  Mohammadabad (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād) is a village in Astaneh Rural District, in the Central District of Roshtkhar County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,943, in 856 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]  Mohammadabad (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād; also known as Muhammadābād) is a village in Qahab-e Jonubi Rural District, in the Central District of Isfahan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,169, in 451 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]  Mohammadabad (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād) is a village in Qahab-e Jonubi Rural District, in the Central District of Isfahan County, Isfahan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 796, in 225 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP] Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh  Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād-e Razzāqzādeh and Moḩammadābād Razzāqzādeh; also known as Moḩammadābād) is a village in Shusef Rural District, Shusef District, Nehbandan County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 127, in 44 families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP] Mohammadabad, Shusef  Mohammadabad (, also Romanized as Moḩammadābād; also known as Kalāteh-ye Kadkhodā) is a village in Arabkhaneh Rural District, Shusef District, Nehbandan County, South Khorasan Province, Iran. In 2006, its population was 21, in six families.
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]
In what country is Mohammadabad-e Razzaqzadeh? [SEP]
In what country is Grant? [SEP]  Grant is a former rural locality in the Barcaldine Region, Queensland, Australia. In the, Grant had a population of 11 people. On 22 November 2019 the Queensland Government decided to amalgamate the localities in the Barcaldine Region, resulting in five expanded localities based on the larger towns: Alpha, Aramac, Barcaldine, Jericho and Muttaburra. Grant was mostly incorporated into Barcaldine, except for the eastern corner which was incorporated into Jericho.
In what country is Grant? [SEP]  The Lada Granta is marketed in Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and Egypt. Within the European Union, it has been made available in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Austria, Hungary, France and Germany.
In what country is Grant? [SEP]  Grant is a senior partner of the Basseterre law firm Grant Powell & Co., where his areas of practice include immigration law, citizenship law, trust law, and insurance law. He graduated from the Norman Manley Law School in Jamaica and Harvard Law School in the United States. He renounced United States citizenship in 2009 during the debate on the National Assembly Elections (Amendment) Bill, which barred dual citizens from standing for election.
In what country is Grant? [SEP]  The Grant (formerly One Museum Park West) is the companion structure to One Museum Park in the Near South Side community area (neighborhood) in Chicago, Illinois, USA. It is located at the north end of the Central Station development.
In what country is Grant? [SEP]  Grant is an unincorporated place, former railway point and now a ghost town in the Unorganized North Part of Cochrane District in northeastern Ontario, Canada, located 25.5 km east of Nakina, Ontario.
In what country is Grant? [SEP] Timeline of women's suffrage  Women's suffrage – the right of women to vote – has been achieved at various times in countries throughout the world. In many nations, women's suffrage was granted before universal suffrage, in which cases women and men from certain socioeconomic classes or races were still unable to vote. Some countries granted suffrage to both sexes at the same time. This timeline lists years when women's suffrage was enacted. Some countries are listed more than once, as the right was extended to more women according to age, land ownership, etc. In many cases, the first voting took place in a subsequent year.  Some women in the Isle of Man (geographically part of the British Isles but not part of the United Kingdom) gained the right to vote in 1881.  New Zealand was the first self-governing country in the world in which all women had the right to vote in parliamentary elections; from 1893. However women could not stand for election to parliament until 1919, when three women stood (unsuccessfully); see 1919 in New Zealand.  The colony of South Australia allowed women to both vote and stand for election in 1894. In Sweden, conditional women's suffrage was granted during the age of liberty between 1718 and 1772. But it was not until the year 1919 that equality was achieved, where women's votes were valued the same as men's.  The Australian "Commonwealth Franchise Act 1902" enabled women to vote at federal elections and also permitted women to stand for election to the Australian Parliament, making the newly-federated country of Australia the first in the modern world to do so, although some states excluded indigenous Australians.   In 1906, the autonomous Grand Duchy of Finland, which later became the Republic of Finland, was the first country in the world to give all women and all men both the right to vote and the right to run for office.  Finland was also the first country in Europe to give women the right to vote.  The world's first female members of parliament were elected in Finland the following year.   In Europe, the last jurisdiction to grant women the right to vote was the Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden (AI), in 1991; AI is the smallest Swiss canton with 14,100 inhabitants in 1990. Women in Switzerland obtained the right to vote at federal level in 1971, and at local cantonal level between 1959 and 1972, except for Appenzell in 1989/1990, see Women's suffrage in Switzerland.   In Saudi Arabia women were first allowed to vote in December 2015 in the municipal elections.  For other women's rights, see timeline of women's legal rights (other than voting).
In what country is Grant? [SEP]
In what country is Grant? [SEP] Universal suffrage  Universal suffrage (also called universal franchise, general suffrage, and common suffrage of the common man) gives the right to vote to all adult citizens, regardless of wealth, income, gender, social status, race, ethnicity, or political stance, subject only to certain exceptions as in the case of children, felons, and for a time, women. In its original 19th-century usage by reformers in Britain, "universal suffrage" was understood to mean only universal manhood suffrage; the vote was extended to women later, during the women's suffrage movement that began in New Zealand in the 19th century.  There are variations among countries in terms of specifics of the right to vote; the minimum age is usually between 18 and 25 years (see voting age) and "the insane, certain classes of convicted criminals, and those punished for certain electoral offenses" sometimes lack the right to vote.<ref name="Brit"/>  In the first modern democracies, governments restricted the vote to those with property and wealth, which almost always meant a minority of the male population. In some jurisdictions, other restrictions existed, such as requiring voters to practice a given religion. In all modern democracies, the number of people who could vote has increased progressively with time. The 19th century saw many movements advocating "universal [male] suffrage", most notably in Europe, Great Britain and North America. From there, the movement for the idea of universal suffrage which included women's suffrage spread across British colonies and beyond.  In the United States, after the principle of "One person, one vote" was established in the early 1960s by U.S. Supreme Court under Earl Warren, the U.S. Congress together with the Warren Court continued to protect and expand the voting rights of all Americans, especially African Americans, through the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Voting Rights Act of 1965 and several Supreme Court rulings. In addition, the term "suffrage" is also associated specifically with women's suffrage in the United States; a movement to extend the franchise to women began in the mid-19th century and culminated in 1920, when the United States ratified the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, guaranteeing the right of women to vote. It would be 1928 before voting rights were guaranteed to all women in the UK.
In what country is Grant? [SEP]
In what country is Grant? [SEP] Grant Thornton LLP  Grant Thornton LLP is the American member firm of Grant Thornton International, the seventh largest accounting network in the world by combined fee income. Grant Thornton LLP is the sixth largest U.S. accounting and advisory organization. The firm operates 59 offices across the US with approximately 8,500 employees, 550 partners, and produces annual revenue in excess of US$1.9 billion.  During the 2022 Russian Invasion of Ukraine, The Times reported that Grant Thornton is in line to earn millions of pounds for acting as trustees in a bankruptcy case on behalf of the Russian state-owned DIA, who bypassed sanction regimes to obtain funds and assets from abroad in order to fund the war in Ukraine.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]  The Rubim do Norte River is a river of Minas Gerais state in southeastern Brazil.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]  The Capim River (Rio Capim) is a river in the state of Pará, Brazil. It is a tributary of the Guamá River. The Gurupí, Capim and Guamá rivers flow into the mouth of the Amazon and are affected by the daily tides, which force water from the Amazon upstream. They are in the Tocantins-Araguaia-Maranhão moist forests ecoregion.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]  The Pitimbu River is a river of Rio Grande do Norte state in northeastern Brazil. In 2007 the river was tested for potential cytotoxic and genotoxic surface water.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]  Rio Grande do Norte (,, ; "Great Northern River", in reference to the mouth of the Potengi River) is one of the states of Brazil, located in the northeastern region of the country, occupying the northeasternmost tip of the South American continent. Because of its geographic position, Rio Grande do Norte has a strategic importance. The capital and largest city is Natal. It is the land of the folklorist Luís da Câmara Cascudo. Its 410 km (254 mi) of sand, much sun, coconut palms and lagoons are responsible for the fame of beaches. Rocas Atoll, the only such feature in the Atlantic Ocean, is part of the state. The main economic activity is tourism, followed by the extraction of petroleum (the second largest producer in the country), agriculture, fruit growing and extraction of minerals, including considerable production
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]  The Rubim do Sul River is a river of Minas Gerais state in southeastern Brazil.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP] Rubim do Norte River  The Rubim do Norte River is a river of Minas Gerais state in southeastern Brazil.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP] List of rivers of Minas Gerais  List of rivers in Minas Gerais (Brazilian State). The list is arranged by drainage basin, with respective tributaries indented under each larger stream's name and ordered from downstream to upstream. All rivers in Minas Gerais drain to the Atlantic Ocean.
In what country is Rubim do Norte River? [SEP]
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP]  The Institute of Health Sciences was established in 2008 by Anneliese Dressel and Suzanne Laurie. Anneliese Dressel is most known as a radio personality for her weekly slot on C103 which is a radio station in County Cork, Ireland. This education facility offer students certificate and diploma courses for those wishing to pursue a career in nutritional sciences and health.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP]  The Royal College of Science for Ireland (RCScI ) was an institute for higher education in Dublin which existed from 1867 to 1926, specialising in physical sciences and applied science. It was originally based on St. Stephen's Green, moving in 1911 to a purpose-built "Royal College of Science" building on Merrion Street, now known as Government Buildings. In 1926 it was absorbed into University College Dublin (UCD) as the faculty of Science and Engineering.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP]  University of Westminster), was founded in 1838 in Regent Street, London. In Ireland the term "institute of technology" is the more favored synonym of a "regional technical college" though the latter is the legally correct term; however, Dublin Institute of Technology is a university in all but name as it can confer degrees in accordance with law, Cork Institute of Technology and other Institutes of Technology have delegated authority from HETAC to make awards to and including master's degree level — Level 9 of the Republic of Ireland's National Framework for Qualifications (NFQ) — for all areas of study and Doctorate level in
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP]  The Irish Institute (Instituto Irlandés) is a highly selective catholic private preparatory school in Greater Mexico City. Operated by the Legionaries of Christ, the grounds, located in Naucalpan, State of Mexico, have separate areas for boys and girls, plus a third one for the coed preschool. The school levels in total range from preschool to bachillerato, equivalent to the American K-12. The Irish Institute is also present in Italy in the city of Rome and in other cities of Mexico, including: Nuevo Laredo and Monterrey.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP]  The Dublin Institute for Advanced Studies (DIAS) (Institiúid Ard-Léinn Bhaile Átha Cliath) is a statutory, independent research institute in Ireland. It was established in 1940 by the Taoiseach, Éamon de Valera in Dublin, Ireland. The Institute consists of three schools: the School of Theoretical Physics, the School of Cosmic Physics and the School of Celtic studies. The directors of these schools are currently Professor Werner Nahm, Professor Chris Bean and Professor Ruairí Ó hUiginn. The Institute under the act is empowered to "train students in methods of advanced research" but does not itself award degrees; graduate students working under the supervision of Institute researchers can, with the agreement of the governing board of the appropriate school, be registered for a higher degree in any university worldwide. Following a comprehensive review of the higher education sector, and its institutions, conducted by the Higher Education Authority for the Minister for Education and Skills in 2013, DIAS was approved to remain an independent research institute carrying out fundamental research. It appointed a new CEO, Dr Eucharia Meehan, formerly Director of the Irish Research Council, in the summer of 2017.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP] Institute of Chemistry of Ireland  The Institute of Chemistry of Ireland (ICI) is a society representing chemists in the Republic of Ireland. It is led by Celine Marmion, a Professor of Chemistry at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP] Royal Institute of Chemistry  The society received its first Royal Charter on 13 June 1885, and King George VI awarded the society royal patronage with effect from 14 May 1943, from which date it became the Royal Institute of Chemistry of Great Britain and Ireland (RICGBI). This re-designation was formally confirmed by the grant of a Supplemental Charter on 29 March 1944.  As well as insisting on thorough professional qualifications, it also laid down strict ethical standards. Its main qualifications were Licentiate (LRIC) (professional training following a course of practical study to a standard lower than an honours degree), Graduate (GRIC) (completion of study equivalent to at least second class honours degree), Associate (ARIC) (LRIC plus professional experience), Member (MRIC) (GRIC plus professional experience) and Fellow (FRIC) (more experience and standing than MRIC) of the Royal Institute of Chemistry. Following a supplemental Charter in 1975, Members and Fellows were permitted to use the letters "CChem" (Chartered Chemist). It published Royal Institute of Chemistry Reviews from 1968 to 1971, when it combined to form Chemical Society Reviews, and the Journal of the Royal Institute of Chemistry.  At the same time, the Chemical Society had concentrated on the science of chemistry, and publishing learned journals. In 1972 these two organisations, together with the Faraday Society and the Society for Analytical Chemistry, started the process of merger, becoming the Royal Society of Chemistry on 15 May 1980.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP] Journal of the Royal Institute of Chemistry  The Journal of the Royal Institute of Chemistry was a scientific journal published by the Royal Institute of Chemistry which combined with other societies in 1980 to form the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC). It had various names, including those with the title of the Institute prior to gaining its royal charter:-
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP] Eva Philbin  Eva Philbin (4 January 1914 – 24 June 2005) was an Irish chemist who became the first woman president of the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland.<ref name="IT Obit"/>  Born Eva Maria Ryder in Ballina, County Mayo, Ireland, Philbin received her B.Sc with first class honors and M.Sc from University College Galway. While at University College Galway she worked under Tom Dillon where they worked on identifying carbohydrates in seaweed. She began her career in 1939 as an industrial chemist and was chief chemist at Hygeia Ltd in Galway during World War II. At Hygeia she was responsible for developing alternative sources for chemicals that were unavailable due to the war.  In 1945, Philbin joined the staff at University College, Dublin. There she collaborated with Professor Thomas S. Wheeler to establish an active research school in Natural Product Chemistry. In 1958, Philbin was awarded a doctorate of science (D .Sc) from the National University of Ireland for her published work on flavonoids. Philbin became organic chemistry professor in 1962 and in 1963, took over as head of the chemistry department at UCD following the death of Prof. Wheeler. She continued to work on flavonoids, related compounds and potential anti-cancer agents through collaborations with other UCD staff.  Over her long career, Philbin became a fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and a member of the Council of the Royal Irish Academy and the Natural Science Council. Philbin became the first woman to chair the National Science Council, was the first female senior vice-president of the Royal Irish Academy, and was the first woman president of the Institute of Chemistry in 1966. Since 2007, the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland Annual Award for Chemistry lectures series has been named in her honor as the Eva Philbin Public Lecture Series.  Philbin's interests ranged beyond science, taking a strong interest in the treatment of those with learning difficulties, leading her to take up the chair of the Consultative Council on Mental Handicap as well as becoming honorary treasurer of the National Association for the Mentally Handicapped of Ireland.<ref name="Stevens 2001"/>  Her eldest daughter Eimear married broadcaster and historian John Bowman. Philbin died in 2005, aged 91.
In what country is Institute of Chemistry of Ireland? [SEP] Celine Marmion  Celine J. Marmion is a Professor of Chemistry at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland and President of the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland. She is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry and the Institute of Chemistry of Ireland. Marmion is involved with the design of new chemotherapeutic drugs.
In what country is Lima? [SEP]  The Lima metropolitan area has become an unofficial megacity (a metropolitan area of more than ten million people) as of 2017. It was the first in the Andean States, the fourth in South America, the fifth in Latin America and the seventh in the Americas. According to the Globalization and World Cities Research Network, Lima is currently a Beta + city, one subcategory away from being in the"Alpha" category.
In what country is Lima? [SEP]  In the present day, Lima is the most important metropolis in Peru and in the Andean region. The area's financial district is San Isidro. It is home to a large concentration of business centers, skyscrapers, and commerce. Miraflores and Barranco are two districts where the city's nightlife is mainly based in. Parts of the metropolis can be lively; music at night is common in some areas. Today different areas of the city have differing aspects and showcase variations in culture caused by varying times of settlement, differences in socio-economic level and immigration from other parts of Peru. The downtown area, unlike many downtowns in other major cities, is largely a historic district, and is home
In what country is Lima? [SEP]  The Lima Metropolitan Area (Área Metropolitana de Lima, also known as Lima Metropolitana) is an area formed by the conurbation of the Peruvian provinces of Lima (the nation's capital) and Callao. It is the largest of the metropolitan areas of Peru, the seventh largest in the Americas, the fourth largest in Latin America, and among the thirty largest in the world. The conurbation process started to be evident in the 1980s. The metropolitan area is composed of five subregions. These are Lima Norte, Lima Sur, Lima Este, Central Lima, and Callao. Its estimated 2020 population is over 11 million according to the INEI.
In what country is Lima? [SEP]  Peru (Perú ; Piruw ; Piruw ), officially the Republic of Peru, is a country in western South America. It is bordered in the north by Ecuador and Colombia, in the east by Brazil, in the southeast by Bolivia, in the south by Chile, and in the south and west by the Pacific Ocean. Peru is a megadiverse country with habitats ranging from the arid plains of the Pacific coastal region in the west to the peaks of the Andes mountains extending from the north to the southeast of the country to the tropical Amazon Basin rainforest in the east with the Amazon river. Peru has a population of 34 million, and its capital and largest city is Lima.
In what country is Lima? [SEP]  The Lima metropolitan area is Peru's capital and largest city with over 10 million inhabitants, more than one third of the total national population.
In what country is Lima? [SEP] Lima  Lima ( ; ), originally founded as Ciudad de Los Reyes (City of The Kings) is the capital and largest city of Peru. It is located in the valleys of the Chillón, Rímac and Lurín Rivers, in the desert zone of the central coastal part of the country, overlooking the Pacific Ocean. Together with the seaside city of Callao, it forms a contiguous urban area known as the Lima Metropolitan Area. With a population of more than 9.7 million in its urban area and more than 10.7 million in its metropolitan area, Lima is one of the largest cities in the Americas.   Lima was named by natives in the agricultural region known by native Peruvians as "Limaq". It became the capital and most important city in the Viceroyalty of Peru. Following the Peruvian War of Independence, it became the capital of the Republic of Peru (República del Perú). Around one-third of the national population now lives in its metropolitan area.  The city of Lima is considered to be the political, cultural, financial and commercial center of Peru. Lima is home to one of the oldest institutions of higher learning: the National University of San Marcos, founded on 12 May 1551, is the first officially established and the oldest continuously functioning university in the New World. Lima is also one of the thirty most populated urban agglomerations in the world. Due to its geostrategic importance, the Globalization and World Cities Research Network has categorized it as a "beta" tier city. Jurisdictionally, the metropolis extends mainly within the province of Lima and in a smaller portion, to the west, within the Constitutional Province of Callao, where the seaport and the Jorge Chávez Airport are located. Both provinces have regional autonomy since 2002.  In October 2013, Lima was chosen to host the 2019 Pan American Games; these games were held at venues in and around Lima, and were the largest sporting event ever hosted by the country. It also hosted the APEC Meetings of 2008 and 2016, the Annual Meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank Group in October 2015, the United Nations Climate Change Conference in December 2014, and the Miss Universe 1982 contest.
In what country is Lima? [SEP]
In what country is Lima? [SEP] Lima Province  Lima Province is located in the central coast of Peru and is the only province in the country not belonging to any of the twenty-five regions. Its capital is Lima, which is also the nation's capital.  Despite its small area, this province is the major industrial and economic powerhouse of the Peruvian economy. It concentrates almost one-third of the country's population and 50% of Peru's GDP in 2012.
In what country is Lima? [SEP] Lima Group  The Lima Group (GL; Spanish and , French: Groupe de Lima) is a multilateral body that was established following the Lima Declaration on 8 August 2017 in the Peruvian capital of Lima, where representatives of 12 countries met in order to establish a peaceful exit to the ongoing crisis in Venezuela.  Among other issues, the group demands the release of political prisoners, the end of human rights violations, calls for free elections, offers humanitarian aid and criticizes the breakdown of democratic order in Venezuela under Nicolás Maduro.
In what country is Lima? [SEP] Lima, Ohio  Lima ( ) is a city in and the county seat of Allen County, Ohio, United States. The municipality is located in northwest Ohio along Interstate 75 approximately north of Dayton, southwest of Toledo, and southeast of Fort Wayne, Indiana.  As of the 2020 census, the city had a population of 35,579. It is the principal city of the Lima, Ohio metropolitan statistical area, which is included in the Lima–Van Wert–Wapakoneta, OH, combined statistical area. Lima was founded in 1831.  The Lima Army Tank Plant, officially called the Joint Systems Manufacturing Center, built in 1941, is the sole producer of the M1 Abrams.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]  KMAI-LP (97.9 FM) is a low-power radio station licensed to Alturas, California, United States. The station broadcasts highway information.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]  in Garden City, Kansas ; KKNG-FM in Blanchard, Oklahoma ; KKRC-FM in Sioux Falls, South Dakota ; in Davenport, Washington ; in Santa Fe, New Mexico ; in Blackfoot, Idaho ; in San Francisco, California ; in Lee's Summit, Missouri ; in New Deal, Texas ; in Kaplan, Louisiana ; KMEI-LP in Kamiah, Idaho ; in Redding, California ; KNEH-LP in Helena, Montana ; in Blair, Nebraska ; KOLC in Carson City, Nevada ; KPSQ-LP in Fayetteville, Arkansas ; KPUY in Garwood, Texas ; in Waskom, Texas ; KQSB-LP in Paris, Texas ; in Aurora, Nebraska ; KRJK in Lamont, California ; in Wailea-Makena, Hawaii ;
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]  WXEI-LP (95.3 FM) is a radio station broadcasting a News/Talk radio format. Licensed to Crestview, Florida, United States, the station serves the Crestview/Fort Walton Beach area. The station is currently owned by X-Static Enterprises Inc. WXEI's most popular aired program is the nationally syndicated radio talk show "Jon Arthur Live!" airing Monday-Friday at 7 PM Central. Jon Arthur Live! is also broadcast on the First Amendment Radio Network.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]  Far East Broadcasting Company is an international Christian radio network. From 1960 to 1994, FEBC owned and operated shortwave radio station KGEI in San Francisco, California.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]  KMTE-LP (99.1 FM) is a radio station licensed to Montrose, Colorado, United States. The station is currently owned by State of Colorado Telecommunication Services.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP] KMEI  KMEI may refer to:
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP] LifeTalk Radio  LifeTalk Radio is a network of over 200 radio stations featuring Christian music, Christian talk and teaching, and other religious programming. Its headquarters are in Riverside, California. LifeTalk Radio is the only radio network owned by the North American Division of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, and is a ministry of the Adventist Media Center.
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]
In what country is KMEI-LP? [SEP]
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]  Záblatí is a municipality and village in Prachatice District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 300 inhabitants. Záblatí lies approximately 5 km south-west of Prachatice, 39 km west of České Budějovice, and 127 km south of Prague.
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]  Záblatí is a village and municipality (obec) in Jindřichův Hradec District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 10.26 km2, and has a population of 85. Záblatí lies approximately 25 km west of Jindřichův Hradec, 21 km north-east of České Budějovice, and 111 km south of Prague.
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]   (Polish: ) is a village in Karviná District, Moravian-Silesian Region, Czech Republic. It was a separate municipality but became administratively a part of Bohumín in 1974. It has a population of 2,225 (August 2009).
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]  Zablatje  is a village in Croatia.
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]  Villages and hamlets of Albrechtovice, Hlásná Lhota, Horní Záblatí, Křišťanovice, Řepešín, Saladín and Zvěřenice are administrative parts of Záblatí.
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP]
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP] List of German names for places in the Czech Republic  The names of places in what is today the Czech Republic have evolved during their history. The list concerns primarily the settlements, but bilingual names for significant mountains and rivers are also listed. Places are sorted alphabetically according to their German names.  Many of the German names are now exonyms, but used to be endonyms commonly used by the local German population, who had lived in many of these places until shortly after World War II.  Until 1866, the only official language of the Austrian Empire administration was German. Some place names were merely "Germanized" versions of the original Czech names, as seen e.g. from their etymology. The compromise of 1867 marked a recognition of the need for bilingualism in areas where an important portion of the population used another language; the procedure was imposed by official instructions in 1871.
In what country is Záblatí? [SEP] Husinec (Prachatice District)  Husinec (, ) is a town in Prachatice District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 1,400 inhabitants. It is known as the birthplace of one of the main figures in Czech history, Jan Hus. The town centre is well preserved and is protected by law as an urban monument zone.
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]  Ba Thín (Sông Ba Thín) is a tributary of the Kỳ Cùng River. It originates in the high mountains of Guangxi, China, and joins the Kỳ Cùng River in Qu Xa commune in Lộc Bình District of Lạng Sơn Province in northeastern Vietnam. The river is 52 km long and has a catchment area of 320 km2.
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]  basin in China. The Bản Thín River, a tributary of the Kỳ Cùng, which is 52 m long with a catchment area of 320 km2, has its source in a mountainous region in Guangxi in China, and empties into the Kỳ Cùng in the commune of Khuất Xá in Lộc Bình Province. Other tributaries of the Kỳ include the Bắc Giang River, which is 114 km long with a catchment area of 2670 km2 and the Bắc Khê River, which is 54 km long with a catchment area of 801 km2. Other rivers of note in the province include the Thương Là River, which is the second
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]  The Ba Lai River (Sông Ba Lai) is a river in the Mekong Delta region, Vietnam, in Ben Tre Province, flowing between An Hoa Island and Bao Island. It is a direct tributary of the Tien River at the boundary of Phu Duc and Tan Phu Communes. At the beginning of the 20th century, the flow from Tien River began to diminish. The water source of the Ba Lai River now comes mainly from the My Tho River. The Ba Lai River has also begun to diminish and the Ba Lai estuary is now filling with sediment and becoming blocked. In 2002, an irrigation dam was built across the River to stop the infiltration of salt water and preserve fresh water for 100,000 hectares of farmland in Bến Tre.
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]  Dong Ba Thin Base Camp was established on Highway 1 at Dong Ba Thin, 4 km northwest of Cam Ranh Base and 22 km south of Nha Trang in 1964. The base comprised several different adjacent facilities: Dong Ba Thin Airfield, a short asphalt runway army airfield; Dong Ba Thin Heliport (also known as Flanders Army Heliport) on the west side of the airfield and the Special Forces Camp. The Special Forces Camp was first established by Detachment B-1, 5th Special Forces Group in December 1964 and was later used by Detachments 37, B-51, A-132, A-411 and A-521. In addition, the facility was a Special Forces forward operating base and used for Military Assistance Command, Vietnam – Studies and Observations
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]  to An Dien (11.148°N, 106.586°W) on the Thi Thinh River opposite Bến Cát. Each of these outposts, including Base 82 (11.133°N, 106.544°W), which was midway between Rach Bap and An Dien, was manned by a company of the 321st Regional Force (RF) Battalion. Another country road passed by the Rach Bap outpost, local Route 14, which generally paralleled the Saigon River from Tri Tam, through Rach Bap, and veered to the southeast through the Triangle, crossing the Thi Thinh River before it joined Highway 13 north of Phú Cường. The PAVN had blown the bridge on Route 14 over the Thi Thinh a few weeks earlier, but the stream could be spanned by pontoon sections. About midway between Rach Bap and the Thi Thinh
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP] List of rivers of Vietnam  This is a list of streams and rivers in Vietnam:
In what country is Ba Thín River? [SEP]
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]  El Carmen Airport is an airport serving the Bobonaza River village of Montalvo in Pastaza Province, Ecuador. The runway is within a bend of the river, and approaches to either end will cross the water. The Montalvo-El Carmen non-directional beacon (ident: MTL) is located near the runway.
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]  El Carmen de Bolívar is a municipality in the department of Bolívar, Colombia, 114 km southeast of Cartagena de Indias. It is located in the orographic system of the Montes de María, being the largest population, as well as the one that concentrates the economic and commercial movement of the subregion. It is the third most populated municipality in the department and an important agricultural center, considered "the agricultural and food pantry of the department of Bolívar" for being a great supplier to the entire department of products, especially avocado, tobacco, cocoa, banana, yam and sesame. This is how it is
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]  El Salto Dam (Presa El Salto), located on the Guadalquivir River in the municipal district of El Carpio (Province of Córdoba, Spain), comprises a dam and its corresponding hydroelectric power station. The dam is situated near the 3.3 km mark on the Pedro Abad-Adamuz highway (CO-412). Its Neo-Mudéjar design is the result of a collaboration between architect Casto Fernández Shaw and engineers Carlos Mendoza and Antonio del Águila. The Madrid-based engineering consulting firm undertook construction of the dam between 1918 and 1922. Since its inception, the dam has proved valuable to the local population for its contribution to the development and economic expansion of the area.
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]  as the Sweet City of Colombia since a part of its economy is based on food processing such as Chepacorinas Cookies, Coco Casadilla, Panochas, among others. As for transport infrastructure, its geographically privileged position makes it conducive to the construction of a dry port. Since it connects the Colombian Caribbean with the Santanderes through the Ruta del Sol, it is also a key point of connection of the west of the country to the large ports of Barranquilla and Cartagena by the Troncal de Occidente; and through the Transversal Montes de María communicates this important national road artery with the Gulf
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]  According to the 2002 census of the National Statistics Institute, El Carmen spans an area of 664.3 sqkm and has 12,845 inhabitants (6,567 men and 6,278 women). Of these, 4,426 (34.5%) lived in urban areas and 8,419 (65.5%) in rural areas. The population fell by 9.3% (1316 persons) between the 1992 and 2002 censuses.
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]
In what country is El Carmen Rivero Tórrez? [SEP]
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]  Kawahigashi Station (川東駅) is a train station located in Imari, Saga Prefecture, Japan. It is on the Nishi-Kyūshū Line which has been operated by the third-sector Matsuura Railway since 1988.
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]  Kawahigashi Station (川東駅) is a railway station in the city of Sukagawa, Fukushima, Japan operated by the East Japan Railway Company (JR East).
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]  Kawagishi Station (川岸駅) is a railway station in the city of Okaya, Nagano Prefecture, Japan jointly operated by JR Central and JR East. It is managed by JR East.
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]  Shingashi Station (新河岸駅) is a passenger railway station located in the city of Kawagoe, Saitama, Japan, operated by the private railway operator Tōbu Railway.
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]  Kawawachō Station (川和町駅) is metro station located in Tsuzuki Ward, Yokohama, Kanagawa Prefecture, Japan. It is served by the Yokohama Municipal Subway’s Green Line (Line 4) and is 1.7 kilometers from the terminus of the Green Line at Nakayama Station.
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP] Kawahigashi Station (Fukushima)
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP] Kawahigashi Station (Saga)  Trains on this branch terminate at either or . Travellers can transfer at for local trains to , then onto a local or rapid train to . It is 11.6 km from .<ref name="official-page" />
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP] Kawahigashi Station  Kawahigashi Station is the name of two train stations in Japan:
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]
In what country is Kawahigashi Station? [SEP]
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]  Los Santos Mine is exploited through Daytal Resources Spain S.L. ("Daytal"), a wholly owned Spanish subsidiary of Almonty Industries Inc. It is located in the municipalities of Los Santos and Fuenterroble de Salvatierra in the province of Salamanca, about 180 km west of Madrid. The deposit was discovered by Billiton Española in 1979–1980 by targeted night use of ultra-violet lamps to disclose the presence of the tungsten mineral, scheelite (CaWO 4 ) which fluoresces under ultraviolet light. After the discovery, a period of intense exploration activity began, including diamond drilling and some preliminary engineering. In the 1980s it decided to
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]  per year and works by gravimetry. It produces tungsten (scheelite) concentrates with 65% WO3 at an average of 100-140 ton per month. Since 2008, Los Santos has produced approximately 8,500 tons of tungsten concentrate, making it, in terms of production, the biggest tungsten mine in Spain, taking into consideration all historical producers. The tailings of the processing plant are dry-stacked for subsequent re-processing, as much of its contained mineralization is not extracted and in the future, with changes in plant design, will be reprocessed; then the final tailings will be dumped into the restoration of the last pit shell.
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]  out a pre-feasibility study. By 1985, however, the prevailing price for tungsten of US$81/mtu, the project was considered non-viable. Later mining rights were acquired by the publicly owned company SIEMCALSA, which sold it to the Australian public company, |Heemskirk Consolidated Limited that had commissioned the project in June 2008. The Los Santos deposit is a typical skarn-hosted scheelite deposit, where intrusion of granitoids into carbonate-rich sedimentary rocks has resulted in their replacement by calcosilicate or siliceous minerals, together with mineralisation. It forms from impure carbonates rich in iron (Fe) and contains pyroxene, scheelite, plagioclase and locally magnetite. The scheelite is
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]  The Los Filos mine is one of the largest gold mines in Mexico and in the world. The mine is located in the south of the country in Guerrero. The mine has estimated reserves of 7.43 million oz of gold and 52.54 million oz of silver. In January 2017, Goldcorp sold the mine to Leagold Mining Corporation for $438 million as part of a divestment of non-core assets.
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]  Los Santos has 6 national parks: La Tronosa, Tonosí, Cerro Hoya, Cerro Canajagua, Santa Ana and El Colmón. It has five wildlife refuges. These areas include El Peñón de la Honda, Isla Cañas, Isla Iguana, Pablo Arturo Barrios and La Marinera. The coastline of La Enea and El Espinal corregimiento and the basin of Cacao and Mensabé river are also protected.
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP] Los Santos mine  Los Santos Mine is a tungsten open pit mine in the province of Salamanca (Spain). The only tungsten producing mine in Spain, it has been in continuous production since its commissioning in 2008.
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP]
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP] Almonty Industries  Almonty Industries is a global mining company focused on tungsten mining and exploration. Its primary operations are in Spain, Portugal, and South Korea. The company is listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
In what country is Los Santos mine? [SEP] Strait of Magellan  The Strait of Magellan (), also called the Straits of Magellan, is a navigable sea route in southern Chile separating mainland South America to the north and Tierra del Fuego to the south. The strait is considered the most important natural passage between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. It was discovered and first traversed by the Spanish expedition of Ferdinand Magellan in 1520, after whom it is named. Prior to this, the strait had been navigated by canoe-faring indigenous peoples including the Kawésqar.  Magellan's original name for the strait was "Estrecho de Todos los Santos" ("Strait of All Saints"). The King of Spain, Emperor Charles V, who sponsored the Magellan-Elcano expedition, changed the name to the Strait of Magellan in honor of Magellan.  The route is difficult to navigate due to frequent narrows and unpredictable winds and currents. Maritime piloting is now compulsory. The strait is shorter and more sheltered than the Drake Passage, the often stormy open sea route around Cape Horn, which is beset by frequent gale-force winds and icebergs.<ref name="world"/> Along with the Beagle Channel, the strait was one of the few sea routes between the Atlantic and Pacific before the construction of the Panama Canal.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]  Whited Township is a township in Kanabec County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 808 at the 2000 census. Whited Township was named for Oric Ogilvie Whited, an early landowner.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]  According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 30.6 square miles (79.4 km2), of which 30.5 square miles (78.9 km2) is land and 0.2 square mile (0.4 km2) (0.55%) is water.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]  White Township is a township in Indiana County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 15,821 at the 2010 census.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]  White Township is a township in Beaver County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 1,394 at the 2010 census.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]  White Township is a township in Cambria County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 836 at the 2010 census. It is part of the Johnstown, Pennsylvania Metropolitan Statistical Area.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP] Whited Township, Kanabec County, Minnesota  Whited Township is a township in Kanabec County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 808 at the 2000 census.  Whited Township was named for Oric Ogilvie Whited, an early landowner.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP] Whited  Whited is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP]
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP] Kanabec County, Minnesota  Kanabec County ( ) is a county in the East Central part of U.S. state of Minnesota. As of the 2020 census, the population was 16,032. Its county seat is Mora.
In what country is Whited Township? [SEP] List of county roads in Kanabec County, Minnesota  The following is an incomplete list of county-maintained roads in Kanabec County, Minnesota, United States.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP]  Asalem District is a district (bakhsh) in Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 39,089, in 9,203 families. The District has one city: Asalem. The District has three rural districts (dehestan): Asalem Rural District, Khaleh Sara Rural District, and Kharajgil Rural District.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP]  Asalem (, also Romanized as Asālem) is a city and capital of Asalem District, in Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,347, in 827 families. Asalemi dialect is a variety of Talysh
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP]  Asaluyeh Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Asaluyeh County, Bushehr Province, Iran. In the 2006 census, its population (including those portions later split off to form Akhand Rural District) was 31,319, in 2,476 families; excluding those portions, the population (as of 2006) was 27,228, in 1,763 families. The rural district has 4 villages.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP]  Akhand Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Asaluyeh County, Bushehr Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,091, in 713 families. The rural district has 6 villages. The rural district's establishment was officially announced on 12 December 2012.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP]  Seyyed Jamal ol Din Rural District is a rural district (dehestan) in the Central District of Asadabad County, Hamadan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 13,428, in 3,294 families. The rural district has 20 villages.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP] Asalem Rural District  Asalem Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Asalem District, Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 20,226, in 4,765 families. The rural district has 31 villages.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP] Asalem District  Asalem District () is a district (bakhsh) in Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 39,089, in 9,203 families. The District has one city: Asalem. The District has three rural districts ("dehestan"): Asalem Rural District, Khaleh Sara Rural District, and Kharajgil Rural District.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP] Narenj Dul  Narenj Dul (, also Romanized as Nārenj Dūl; also known as Nārenj Dūleh and Nārenjeh Dūl) is a village in Asalem Rural District, Asalem District, Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 585, in 127 families.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP] Kalah Sara  Kalah Sara (, also Romanized as Kalah Sarā and Kaleh Sarā) is a village in Asalem Rural District, Asalem District, Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,089, in 253 families.
In what country is Asalem Rural District? [SEP] Gilandeh, Asalem  Gilandeh (, also Romanized as Gīlāndeh; also known as Khalīfābād, Khalīfehābād, and Khampārū) is a village in Asalem Rural District, Asalem District, Talesh County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,273, in 1,077 families.
In what country is Contest? [SEP]  of the Video Contest were presented on 5 February 2011. The OGAE Video Contest 2011 was the ninth edition of the competition. The contest took place in Wrocław, Poland after Justyna Steczkowska won the 2010 contest for Poland with "Kim tu jestem". Eleven countries participated in the contest. Andorra and South Africa returned after their absence from the 2008 and 2009 contests. Australia, Luxembourg and Turkey left the competition. The draw for the running order decided that South Africa would start the show, while the host country Poland would close it. The OGAE Video Contest 2012 was the tenth edition of the competition. The contest took place in Paris, France after Mylène Farmer won the 2011 contest for France with "Lonely Lisa". Fifteen countries participated in the contest. Belgium and the United States debuted in the contest, while Bulgaria, Croatia and Serbia returned. Austria left the competition.
In what country is Contest? [SEP]  The Eurovision Song Contest is an international song competition held among broadcasting networks representing primarily European countries. Each participating broadcaster submits an original song to represent their respective country which is performed on live television and radio and transmitted via the European Broadcasting Union's Eurovision and Euroradio networks, hosted by one of the participating countries in an auditorium in a selected host city. Following all entries each participating country casts votes for their favourite performances from the other countries, and the song which has received the most points at the end of the programme is declared the winner. Each contest typically consists of three live television shows held over one week in May.
In what country is Contest? [SEP]  The contest has been broadcast in several countries that do not compete, such as the United States, Canada, New Zealand, and China. Since 2000, it has been broadcast online via the Eurovision website. It was also broadcast in several countries East of the Iron Curtain that have since dissolved, such as Czechoslovakia, East Germany, and the Soviet Union.
In what country is Contest? [SEP]  Video Contests, organised between members of international Eurovision Song Contest fan club OGAE to select the best video released in their countries. The contest was held in Lisboa, the capital city of Portugal. 19 countries participated in the contest, with Spain returning to the contest after a year break. Ireland, Kazakhstan, Poland, and Ukraine made their debut. Withdrawn countries include Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Israel, Luxembourg, and Norway. The contest was won by Ukraine's Svetlana Loboda with "I Will Forget You", who received 171 points, the runner-up was Netherlands. Kazakhstan placed last, receiving nul points. France had received 35 points, but OGAE France requested that
In what country is Contest? [SEP]  The Eurovision Song Contest is an annual international song competition that was first held in Lugano, Switzerland, on 24 May 1956. Seven countries participated – each submitting two songs, for a total of 14. This was the only contest in which more than one song per country was performed: since 1957 all contests have allowed one entry per country. The was won by the host nation, Switzerland. In this competition, only countries that are members of the EBU can participate. The first winner was, and the most recent is. The first host city was Lugano, and the most recent is Rotterdam.
In what country is Contest? [SEP]
In what country is Contest? [SEP]
In what country is Contest? [SEP] Eurovision Song Contest 1956  The Eurovision Song Contest 1956 was the first edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest, organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcasters the Swiss Broadcasting Corporation (SRG SSR) and (RSI). The contest, originally titled the (, English: Grand Prix of the Eurovision Song Competition<ref name="Radio Times" />), was held on Thursday 24 May 1956 at the in Lugano, Switzerland, and hosted by Swiss television presenter Lohengrin Filipello, which remains the only time that the contest has been hosted by a solo male presenter.  Inspired principally by the Italian Sanremo Music Festival, held annually since 1951, the concept of a televised European song contest, initially proposed by Italian broadcaster RAI, was formulated by an EBU committee led by Swiss broadcaster and executive Marcel Bezençon. Following approval at the EBU's General Assembly in 1955, the rules and structure of the contest were agreed upon. Several of the rules utilised in this first contest would subsequently be altered for future editions, and it remains the only edition in which each country was represented by two songs, with only solo performers allowed to compete, and a voting process which was held in secret and where juries could vote for the entries from their own country.  Seven countries participated in the inaugural edition of the contest, and the first winner was the host country , with the song "" performed by Lys Assia. The result was determined by an assembled jury composed of two jurors from each country, with each juror ranking each song between 1 and 10 points. Only the winning country and song were announced at the conclusion of the event, with the results of the remaining participants unknown. Broadcast on television and radio via the Eurovision network in ten countries, no video footage of the event is known to exist, bar clips of the reprise performance of the winning song; the majority of the broadcast is, however, available in audio.
In what country is Contest? [SEP] Rules of the Eurovision Song Contest  A detailed set of rules and obligations which all participating broadcasters and participants in the annual Eurovision Song Contest () must uphold is produced annually ahead of each edition of the international song contest. These rules are drafted by the contest organisers, the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), and approved by the contest's Reference Group, and typically outline which songs may be deemed eligible for entry, the format of the contest, the voting system employed to select a contest winner and how the results of this vote are presented to the televised audience, the overall values of the contest, and distribution and broadcasting rights through television, radio and streaming services.  Since the contest's inaugural edition in 1956, the rules upon which the event has been organised and contested have changed over time.
In what country is Contest? [SEP] Eurovision Song Contest 2007  The Eurovision Song Contest 2007 was the 52nd edition of the Eurovision Song Contest. It took place in Helsinki, Finland, following the country's victory at the with the song "Hard Rock Hallelujah" by Lordi. Organised by the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) and host broadcaster Yleisradio (Yle), the contest was held at the Hartwall Areena, and consisted of a semi-final on 10 May, and a final on 12 May 2007. The two live shows were presented by Finnish television presenter Jaana Pelkonen and musician and TV-host Mikko Leppilampi. In addition, Krisse Salminen acted as guest host in the green room, and reported from the crowds at the Senate Square.  Forty-two countries participated in the contest - three more than the previous record of thirty-nine, that took part in . The EBU decided to put aside its limit of 40 countries, which would have meant excluding some countries using a ranking order scheme. The Czech Republic and Georgia participated for the first time this year, with Montenegro and Serbia taking part as independent nations for the first time. Austria and Hungary both returned, after their absence from the previous edition. Meanwhile, Monaco decided not to participate, despite initially confirming participation. Monaco has not competed in Eurovision Song Contest ever since.  The winner was Serbia with the song "Molitva", performed by Marija Šerifović and written by Vladimir Graić and Saša Milošević Mare. This was Serbia's first victory in the contest, coincidentally the first year it competed as an independent nation. It was also the first winning song entirely performed in a country's native language since 's "Diva" in . Ukraine, Russia, Turkey and Bulgaria rounded out the top five. Further down the table, Belarus achieved their best placing to date, finishing sixth. Meanwhile, Ireland achieved its worst placing in the contest, finishing twenty-fourth (last place). Of the "Big Four" countries, Germany placed the highest, finishing nineteenth.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP]  The Metropolitan City of Genoa (Città Metropolitana di Genova) is one of the fourteen Metropolitan cities of Italy, located in the region of Liguria. Its capital is the city of Genoa. It replaced the Province of Genoa.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP]  Genoa as the European Capital of Culture, along with the French city of Lille. In 2009 the Genoese actor and political activist Beppe Grillo founded the Five Star Movement. In 2011, Genoa, like other European cities, suffered disastrous flooding. In 2013, 11 deaths resulted from the collapse of the control tower of Genoa's port after being hit by the cargo ship Jolly Nero. In 2014, the sunken wreck from the Costa Concordia was transported to the port of Genoa to be broken up. 14 August 2018 was a black day for Genoa: the Ponte Morandi bridge collapsed, killing 43 people.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP]  Genoa ''(pron. gen-OH-uh)'' is a city in Nance County, Nebraska, United States. The population was 1,003 at the 2010 census. The city was founded by Mormons in 1857. In the fall of 1859, the Mormon Colony was forced to abandon Genoa when the town and surrounding area were incorporated into the newly created Pawnee Reservation. The Pawnee Indian Agency utilized the structures vacated by the Mormons.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP]  Genoa CFC has the bulk of its fans in Liguria, however they are also popular in Piedmont and the Aosta Valley. The seafaring traditions of the Genoese and the presence of Genoese communities in distant countries did much to spread the appeal of Genoa some further than just Italy, and immigrants founded fan clubs in Buenos Aires, Amsterdam, Tokyo, Toronto, New York, San Francisco, Barcelona, Iceland and other places. The most significant and traditional rivalry for Genoa, is the inner-city one with the club with whom they share a ground; Sampdoria. The two clubs compete together in the heated Derby della Lanterna ("Derby of the Lantern"); a reference to the Lighthouse of Genoa.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP]  It was first created by the reform of local authorities (Law 142/1990) and then established by the Law 56/2014. It has been operative since January 1, 2015.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP] Genoa  Genoa ( ; ; ) is the capital of the Italian region of Liguria and the sixth-largest city in Italy. In 2015, 594,733 people lived within the city's administrative limits. As of the 2011 Italian census, the Province of Genoa, which in 2015 became the Metropolitan City of Genoa, had 855,834 resident persons. Over 1.5 million people live in the wider metropolitan area stretching along the Italian Riviera.  On the Gulf of Genoa in the Ligurian Sea, Genoa has historically been one of the most important ports on the Mediterranean: it is currently the busiest in Italy and in the Mediterranean Sea and twelfth-busiest in the European Union.  Genoa was the capital of one of the most powerful maritime republics for over seven centuries, from the 11th century to 1797. Particularly from the 12th century to the 15th century, the city played a leading role in the commercial trade in Europe, becoming one of the largest naval powers of the continent and considered among the wealthiest cities in the world. It was also nicknamed "la Superba" ("the proud one") by Petrarch due to its glories on the seas and impressive landmarks. The city has hosted massive shipyards and steelworks since the 19th century, and its solid financial sector dates back to the Middle Ages. The Bank of Saint George, founded in 1407, is the oldest known state deposit bank in the world and has played an important role in the city's prosperity since the middle of the 15th century.  The historical centre, also known as old town, of Genoa is one of the largest and most-densely populated in Europe. Part of it was also inscribed on the World Heritage List (UNESCO) in 2006 as . Genoa's historical city centre is also known for its narrow lanes and streets that the locals call "caruggi". Genoa is also home to the University of Genoa, which has a history going back to the 15th century, when it was known as Genuense Athenaeum. The city's rich cultural history in art, music and cuisine allowed it to become the 2004 European Capital of Culture. It is the birthplace of Guglielmo Embriaco, Christopher Columbus, Andrea Doria, Niccolò Paganini, Giuseppe Mazzini, Renzo Piano and Grimaldo Canella, founder of the House of Grimaldi, among others.  Genoa, which forms the southern corner of the Milan-Turin-Genoa industrial triangle of Northwest Italy, is one of the country's major economic centers. A number of leading Italian companies are based in the city, including Fincantieri, Selex ES, Ansaldo Energia, Ansaldo STS, Edoardo Raffinerie Garrone, Piaggio Aerospace, Mediterranean Shipping Company and Costa Cruises.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP] Republic of Genoa  The Republic of Genoa ( ; ; ) was a medieval and early modern maritime republic from the 11th century to 1797 in Liguria on the northwestern Italian coast. During the Late Middle Ages, it was a major commercial power in both the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea. Between the 16th and 17th centuries it was one of the major financial centers in Europe.   Throughout its history, the Genoese Republic established numerous colonies throughout the Mediterranean and the Black Sea, including Corsica from 1347 to 1768, Monaco, Southern Crimea from 1266 to 1475 and the islands of Lesbos and Chios from the 14th century to 1462 and 1566 respectively.<ref name=":2" /> With the arrival of the early modern period, the Republic had lost many of its colonies, and had to shift its interests and focus on banking. This decision would prove successful for Genoa, which remained as one of the hubs of capitalism, with highly developed banks and trading companies.   Genoa was known as ""la Superba"" ("the Superb one"), ""la Dominante"" ("The Dominant one"), ""la Dominante dei mari"" ("the Dominant of the Seas"), and ""la Repubblica dei magnifici"" ("the Republic of the Magnificents"). From the 11th century to 1528 it was officially known as the ""Compagna Communis Ianuensis"" and from 1580 as the ""Serenìscima Repùbrica de Zêna"" (Most Serene Republic of Genoa).  From 1339 until the state's extinction in 1797 the ruler of the republic was the Doge, originally elected for life, after 1528 was elected for terms of two years. However, in actuality, the Republic was an oligarchy ruled by a small group of merchant families, from whom the doges were selected.  The Genoese navy played a fundamental role in the wealth and power of the Republic over the centuries and its importance was recognized throughout Europe. To this day, its legacy, as a key factor in the triumph of the Genoese Republic, is still recognized and its coat of arms is depicted in the flag of the Italian Navy. In 1284, Genoa fought victoriously against the Republic of Pisa in the battle of Meloria for the dominance over the Tyrrhenian Sea, and it was an eternal rival of Venice for dominance in the Mediterranean Sea.  The republic began when Genoa became a self-governing commune in the 11th century and ended when it was conquered by the French First Republic under Napoleon and replaced with the Ligurian Republic. The Ligurian Republic was annexed by the First French Empire in 1805; its restoration was briefly proclaimed in 1814 following the defeat of Napoleon, but it was ultimately annexed by the Kingdom of Sardinia in 1815.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP] Province of Genoa  The Province of Genoa (Italian "Provincia di Genova") was a province in the Liguria region of Italy. Its capital was the city of Genoa. It was replaced by Metropolitan City of Genoa.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP] Port of Genoa  The Port of Genoa it is one of the most important seaports in Italy, in competition with the ports of Marseille and Barcelona in the Mediterranean Sea. With a trade volume of 51.6 million tonnes, it is the busiest port of Italy after the port of Trieste by cargo tonnage.  Notably the port was used for dismantling the "Costa Concordia" following the "Costa Concordia" disaster.
In what country is Genoa? [SEP] Liguria  Liguria (; ; ; ) is a region of north-western Italy; its capital is Genoa. Its territory is crossed by the Alps and the Apennines mountain range and is roughly coextensive with the former territory of the Republic of Genoa. Liguria is bordered by France (Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur) to the west, Piedmont to the north, and Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany to the east. It rests on the Ligurian Sea, and has a population of 1,557,533. The region is part of the Alps–Mediterranean Euroregion.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]  Normania Township is a civil township in Benson County, North Dakota, United States. As of the 2000 census, its population was 56.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]  Normania Township was originally called Ree Township, and under the latter name was organized in 1872. The present name, adopted in 1874, is supposedly after a place in Norway.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]  According to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 36.3 square miles (93.9 km2), of which 35.5 square miles (92.0 km2) is land and 0.8 square mile (1.9 km2)  (2.07%) is water.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]  Normania Township is a township (T114N R41W) in Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 188 at the 2000 census.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]  As of the census of 2000, there were 188 people, 74 households, and 54 families residing in the township. The population density was 5.3 people per square mile (2.0/km2). There were 82 housing units at an average density of 2.3/sq mi (0.9/km2). The racial makeup of the township was 100.00% White. There were 74 households, out of which 31.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 66.2% were married couples living together, 4.1% had a female householder with no husband present, and 25.7% were non-families. 23.0% of all households were made up of individuals, and 8.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.54 and the average family size was 2.98. In the township the population was
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP] Normania Township, Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota  Normania Township is a township (T114N R41W) in Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, United States. The population was 188 at the 2000 census.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP] Normania Township, Benson County, North Dakota  Normania Township is a civil township in Benson County, North Dakota, United States. As of the 2000 census, its population was 56.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP] Normania, Minnesota  Normania is an unincorporated community in Normania Township, Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota, United States.
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP]
In what country is Normania Township? [SEP] Spellman Lake  Spellman Lake is the name for two small lakes (North and South Spellman Lake), located 8 miles south of Clarkfield in Normania Township of Yellow Medicine County, Minnesota. The lakes and much of the surrounding area are designated as federal waterfowl production areas. There are also state owned public hunting grounds near the lakes. Nontoxic shot is required for all shooting in the area. The use of airboats on North and South Spellman Lakes is prohibited by law at all times. A public water access is maintained on the north lake by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. Hunters should be careful not to shoot protected birds such as bald eagles and swans that frequent the area.  The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources began a drawdown of the lakes on November 28, 2006. The water level was brought down to eliminate fish such as carp and bullheads. The water was drained through the summer of 2007, and allowed to refill through precipitation after enough vegetation had grown. There were no plans to stock fish into the lakes and they are managed as a fish-less system. The shallows depths of the lakes make the survival of game fish unlikely.
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP] Solimana
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]  The district is divided into seven postos, Manjacaze (two localities), Chidenguele (four localities), Nguzene (three localities), Chibonzane (three localities), Macuacua (two localities), Madzucane (three localities), and Chalala (two localities).
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]  There is a road network in the district which includes a stretch of the national road EN340 to Chokwe, as well as 268 km of secondary roads. The Limpopo Railroad (Southern System) runs through the district.
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]  The people in the district are mainly indigenous citizens of Quechua descent. Quechua is the language which the majority of the population (73.57%) learnt to speak in childhood, 25.88% of the residents started speaking using the Spanish language (2007 Peru Census).
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]  Chicualacuala District (Portuguese: Distrito de Chicualacuala) is a district of Gaza Province in south-western Mozambique. It has a population of 41,638 (2011) and covers 18155 km2. The population density of Chicualacuala District 2.1 residents per square kilometers, significantly lower than the average of 17.5 in Gaza Province. The district seat is the town of Chicualacuala. Chicuacuala District is bordered to the north by the Massangena District, to the east by Chigubo District, to the southwest by Mabalane District, to the south by Massingir District, to the southwest by South Africa, and to the northwest by Zimbabwe. It is home to several villages along the Limpopo River including Dumela, Mbuzi, Kunguma, Mawene, Xicumba, Xicumbane, Ngala, Panhame, Mabuzane, and Xitshutswini. Chicuacuala District has four health centers; the single hospital in the province is located outside the district. The district also lacks a bank.
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP] Masma Chicche District  Masma Chicche District is one of thirty-four districts of the province Jauja in Peru.
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP] Chicche District  Chicche District is one of twenty-eight districts of the province Huancayo in Peru.
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP] Chicche  Chicche may refer to:
In what country is Chicche District? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] André Guinde (Socialist Party (France), 2004-2010) The Canton of Aix-en-Provence-IV or Aix-en-Provence-Sud-Ouest is a former canton in the Bouches-du-Rhône department of France. It was created 27 February 2003 by the decree 2003-156. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. At 70,749 inhabitants (2012), it was one of the most populous cantons in France. Elected to represent the canton in the General Council of Bouches-du-Rhône'' :
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] Bruno Genzana (UMP, 2001-2008) The Canton of Aix-en-Provence-I or Aix-en-Provence-Centre is a former canton located within the commune of Aix-en-Provence in the Bouches-du-Rhône department of France. It was created 27 February 2003 by the decree 2003-156 of that date. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Elected to represent the canton in the General Council of Bouches-du-Rhône'' :
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP]  The Canton of L'Arbresle is a French administrative division, located in the Rhône department. The canton was established in 1790. Its boundaries are modified by decree of 27 February 2014 which came into force in March 2015.
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] Luynes ; Les Milles ; Les Granettes ; Brédasque ; Jas-de-Bouffan ; Pont-de-l'Arc ; La Parade ; Célony ; La Beauvalle ; Les Deux-Ormes ; Saint-Mitre
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] Aix-en-Provence (southwest : 58,003 inhabitants) ; Éguilles ; Meyreuil The canton is made up of the following communes:
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] Canton of Marseille-La Pomme  Canton of Marseille-La Pomme is a former canton located within the commune of Marseille in the Bouches-du-Rhône department of France. It was created 27 February 2003 by the decree 2003-156 of that date. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its population was 38,374 in 2012.  Elected to represent the canton in the General Council of Bouches-du-Rhône" :
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP] Canton of Marseille – Saint-Marcel  Canton of Marseille – Saint-Marcel is a former canton located within the commune of Marseille in the Bouches-du-Rhône department of France. It was created 27 February 2003 by the decree 2003-156 of that date. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its population was 31,649 in 2012.  Elected to represent the canton in the General Council of Bouches-du-Rhône:
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP]
In what country is canton of Marseille-La Pomme? [SEP]
In what country is Devanur? [SEP]  Devanur is a village in the Andimadam taluk of Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP]  As of the 2011 Census of India there were 586 households in Devanur and a total population of 3,111 consisting of 1,631 males and 1,480 females. There were 392 children ages 0-6.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP]  As per the 2001 census, Devanur had a total population of 1915 with 964 males and 951 females. The historical name of the village is devanagarapattinam.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP]  Devanuru Mahadeva (ದೇವನೂರು ಮಹಾದೇವ) is an Indian writer, novelist and public intellectual who writes in Kannada language. Devanuru Mahadeva was born in 1948 in Devanuru village in Nanjanagudu Taluk, Mysore district of the Karnataka state, India, He worked at CIIL in Mysore, The Government of India conferred upon him the Padma Shri award, the fourth highest civilian award. Known among literary circles to be a rebel, Mahadeva rejected the Nrupatunga Award (carrying a purse of Rs 5,01,000) in 2010. Devanura's rejection of the award was based on his dissatisfaction that despite being the official language of the state, Kannada is yet to be made the primary language of instruction in schools and colleges. He wants Kannada to be made the medium of learning at least up to the college level. Mahadeva is a Central Sahitya Academy awardee for his novel Kusuma Baale. In the 1990s he rejected the government's offer to nominate him to Rajya Sabha (the upper house of the Parliament of India) under the writer's quota.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP]   Tellanur  is a village in the southern state of Karnataka, India. It is located in the Kollegal taluk of Chamarajanagar district.This is a gram panchayath which includes surrounding villages of Balagunase, Ankanapura, Masti gowdana doddi, Bolegowdana doddi, Chikkalluru.Tellanuru Maramma and Dannavva is the most popular god's in this area.They worship Malemahadeshwara,Kendagannayya also.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP] Devanur  Devanur is a village in the Andimadam taluk of Ariyalur district, Tamil Nadu, India.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP] Devanur Mahadeva  Devanoora Mahadeva is an Indian writer and intellectual who writes in Kannada language. The Government of India conferred upon him the Padma Shri award, the fourth highest civilian award.   Known among literary circles to be a rebel, Mahadeva rejected the Nrupatunga Award (carrying a purse of Rs 5,01,000) in 2010. Devanura's rejection of the award was based on his dissatisfaction that despite being the official language of the state, Kannada is yet to be made the primary language of instruction in schools and colleges. He wants Kannada to be made the medium of learning at least up to the college level. Mahadeva is a Central Sahitya Academy awardee for his novel "Kusuma Baale". In the 1990s he rejected the government's offer to nominate him to Rajya Sabha (the upper house of the Parliament of India) under the writer's quota. In 2022, he published a book on the RSS that gained popularity and critical acclaim both for its content and its innovative open publishing model.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP] University of Mysore  The University of Mysore is a public state university in Mysore, Karnataka, India. The university was founded during the reign of Krishnaraja Wadiyar IV, the Maharaja of Mysore. The university is recognised by the University Grants Commission for offering higher studies degree courses on-campus as well as online. It was inaugurated on 27 July 1916. Its first chancellor was the Maharaja of Mysore; the first Vice-Chancellor was H. V. Nanjundaiah. The university became the first outside of British administration in India, the sixth in India as a whole, and the first in Karnataka. It is a state university of the affiliating type, and became autonomous on 3 March 1956, when it gained recognition from the University Grants Commission.  The Mysore University Library comprises over 800,000 books, 2,400 journal titles, and 100,000 volumes of journals. The main campus features an amphitheater, an auditorium, a swimming pool, and hostel accommodations for men and women. As of July 2013, the University of Mysore was accredited "Grade A" by National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC).
In what country is Devanur? [SEP] Valathi  Valathi, also known as Valathy, is a village in Gingee assembly constituency, Villupuram district, in the state of Tamil Nadu, India. It is nearly 50 km from district capital Villupuram, 40 km from Tiruvannamalai and 15 km from Gingee. It is about 5 km to Melmalayanur Angalamman temple.
In what country is Devanur? [SEP] Bharat Jodo Yatra  Bharat Jodo Yatra (lit: "Unite India March)" is an ongoing mass movement started by the Indian National Congress. Rahul Gandhi, the leader of the Congress, is orchestrating the movement by mobilising the party cadre and general public into walking by foot from Kanyakumari, the southern tip of the peninsula, to the union territory of Jammu and Kashmir, spanning 3,570 kilometres over 150 days.  The Congress said that they started this movement to unite the country against the alleged "divisive politics" of the Bharatiya Janata Party-led central government at New Delhi. Launched by Gandhi and Tamil Nadu chief minister M. K. Stalin on September 7, 2022, its main objective is to fight against the politics of "fear, bigotry and prejudice" and the economics of livelihood destruction, increasing unemployment and growing inequalities.<ref name="auto2"/> The presidential election of the party was held during the movement. The party also formed a government on its own for the first time in 4 years during the movement.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP]  Tegher Monastery (Տեղեր or Տեղերի Վանք; also Tegheri Vank) is an early 13th-century Armenian monastery and church located on the southeastern slopes of Mount Aragats near the modern village of Tegher, and across the gorge from the village of Byurakan in the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia. It was built for Princess Khatun (also known as Mamakhatun), the wife of Prince Vache I Vachutian who had purchased the district of Aragatzotn from the Zakarian brothers. The architect Vardapet Aghbayrik designed Tegher and the monasteries of Saghmosavank and Hovhannavank during the 13th century. The monastery survived intact during a time when Mongol invasions plagued the lands. Ruins of the 9th century village of Tegher (Old Tegher) sit a short distance walk from the monastery. Numerous foundations may be seen, along with the remains of a Tukh Manuk funerary chapel of the 5th century. Nearby is also the medieval to 19th century cemetery with some mausoleums and khachkars.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP]  Tigherghar is a town in north-eastern Algeria.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP]  Tegh Municipality, referred to as Tegh Community (Տեղ Համայնք Tegh Hamaynk), is a rural community and administrative subdivision of Syunik Province of Armenia, at the south of the country. Consisted of a group of settlements, its administrative centre is the village of Tegh.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP]  The Egher is a left tributary of the river Batar in Romania and Ukraine. It discharges into the Batar near Nevetlenfolu, Vynohradiv Raion.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP]  Birni Ader (also: Birni n'Ader), today an administrative village in the municipality of Garhanga, was in 1674 named the capital of the province of Ader in the Sultanate of Agadez. In the early 19th century, the capital was moved to Illela. The French first created in 1904 the cantons of Keita, Tahoua and Illela. In 1913, the canton of Keita was subdivided into Keita, Tamaské, and Garhanga.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP] List of Teachers' Days  Teachers' Day is a special day for the appreciation of teachers, and may include celebrations to honor them for their special contributions in a particular field area, or the community tone in education. This is the primary reason why countries celebrate this day on different dates, unlike many other International Days. For example, Argentina has commemorated Domingo Faustino Sarmiento's death on 11 September as Teachers' Day since 1915. In India the birthday of the second president Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, 5 September, is celebrated as Teachers' Day since 1962, while Guru Purnima has been traditionally observed as a day to worship teachers/gurus by Hindus. Many countries celebrate their Teachers' Day on 5 October in conjunction with World Teachers' Day, which was established by UNESCO in 1994.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP] Tether (cryptocurrency)  Tether (often referred to by its currency codes, USD₮ and USDT, among others) is an asset-backed cryptocurrency stablecoin. It was launched by the company Tether Limited Inc. in 2014. Tether Limited is owned by the Hong Kong-based company iFinex Inc., which also owns the Bitfinex cryptocurrency exchange. As of July 2022, Tether Limited has minted the USDT stablecoin on ten protocols and blockchains. Tether is described as a stablecoin because it was originally designed to be valued at USD $1.00. Tether Limited has stated that it maintains USD $1 of asset reserves for each USD₮ 1 issued, but has been fined by regulators for failing to do this and has failed to present audits showing sufficient asset reserves.<ref name="cuthbertson-explainer" /><ref name=":10" />
In what country is Tegher? [SEP] Teachers College, Columbia University  Teachers College, Columbia University (TC), is the graduate school of education, health, and psychology of Columbia University, a private research university in New York City. Founded in 1887, it has served as one of the official faculties and the Department of Education of Columbia University since 1898 and is consistently ranked among the top 10 graduate schools of education in the United States (currently 7th as of 2022). It is the oldest and largest graduate school of education in the United States. Although it was founded as an independent institution and retains some independence, it has been associated with Columbia University since shortly after its founding and merger with the university.  Teachers College alumni and faculty have held prominent positions in academia, government, music, non-profit, healthcare, and social science research just to name a few. Overall, Teachers College has over 90,000 alumni in more than 30 countries. Notable alumni and former faculty include John Dewey, Art Garfunkel, Dr. Ruth Westheimer (Dr. Ruth), Carl Rogers, Margaret Mead, Bill Campbell, Georgia O'Keeffe, Edward Thorndike, Rollo May, Donna Shalala, Albert Ellis, William Schuman (former president of the Juilliard School), Lee Huan (Premier of the Republic of China), Shirley Chisholm (first black woman elected to the United States Congress), Hafizullah Amin (leader of Afghanistan), Hamden L. Forkner (founder of Future Business Leaders of America), and E. Gordon Gee (has held more university presidencies than any other American including Brown University and Vanderbilt University).
In what country is Tegher? [SEP] Tegher, Armenia  Tegher (, also Romanized as Tekher, Dgyr or Dgher; meaning "medicine") is a village in the Aragatsotn Province of Armenia on the southern slope of Mount Aragats. It earns its name from the large assortment of healing herbs that are found in the surrounding vicinity.  The town contains the Monastery of Tegher built in 1213. The ruins of the 9th century village of Tegher (Old Tegher) sit a short distance walk from the monastery. Numerous foundations may be seen, along with the remains of a Tukh Manuk funerary chapel of the 5th century. Nearby is also a medieval to 19th century cemetery with some mausoleums and khachkars.  Nearby is also a large radio telescope as well as an unfinished solar power plant, both from the Soviet era.
In what country is Tegher? [SEP] Teacher Mpamire  Herbert Mendo Ssegujja (born 27 September 1983), is a Ugandan comedian and actor, who performs under the name Teacher Mpamire. He is most famous for mimicking the Ugandan president, Yoweri Kaguta Museveni. He assumes the stage name Teacher Mpamire.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP]  Kodki is a village, located 11 km west of Bhuj, in Kachchh District in the state of Gujarat, India. It is one of 24 gramas (villages) occupied by the Shree Kutch Leva Patel Community (SKPLC). Kodki was originally a settlement of Rebari and Maaldharis. (Nomadic tribes, whose main activity is cattle herding). The earliest arrival of Kanbis dates back to 1870s (from dabasiya and Hiranis). Halais and Hiranis were the earliest Kanbis to settle in Kodki and take up agriculture. The original name was Bhavanipur, named after the Maaldhari's family goddess Bhavani Maa. In 2007, the village had a population of approximately 4000 people, and a total of 600 houses.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP]  Koninki – settlement in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship, Poland, situated at the south-east end of the so-called Poręba key. Administratively, part of village Poręba Wielka, Limanowa County. Koninki is a tourist centre on the border of the Gorczański National Park at the foot of the Tobołów mountain (957 m n.p.m.) fitted with a chairlift. The town is an excellent base for treks into the Gorce Mountains. A Koninka river flows through the town. Two tourist trails lead from Koninki toward the Turbacz mountain (blue and green). In winter the ski lift is used mainly by skiers reaching the Tobołów slopes, the longest ski run in the Gorce Mountains. The base station of the ski-lift is situated in the former leisure centre of the Sendzimir Steelworks from Kraków. In the 18th century the area, on which the centre is situated, called Hucisko, contained a glass factory. Koninki's biggest vacation centre is called Ostoja Górska with 200 accommodations, the ski station, and the popular chairlift to the top of Tobołów mountain. In the centre of Koninki there is a small chapel which, according to legend, stopped a cholera epidemic.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP]  The village of Kozki was the fictional setting for the 2010 film, The Shrine, though it was actually filmed in multiple locations in Ontario, Canada.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP]  Kózki in Polish and Koske in German, is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Pawłowiczki, within Kędzierzyn-Koźle County, Opole Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It lies approximately 8 km north-west of Pawłowiczki, 20 km south-west of Kędzierzyn-Koźle, and 43 km south of the regional capital Opole. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany. (see Territorial changes of Poland after World War II).
In what country is Kodki? [SEP]  Kobyłki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Ludwin, within Łęczna County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. It lies approximately 8 km north-east of Ludwin, 11 km north-east of Łęczna, and 33 km north-east of the regional capital Lublin. Name of Kobyłki, the most closely can be translated as "Mares". In mid 1990s the area south of Kobyłki had enjoyed minor mining damage, the cause was quite close neighborhood of Bogdanka Coal Mine and its large-scale operations, and as the result the least urbanized parts of the village are planned to be sunk, seamlessly expanding an artificial lake. The area is rich in open landscapes, natural resources, including number of fish (close proximity to Nadrybie), and rare species of birds living on Pojezierze Łęczyńskie. The area has been focused on sustainable development, observing a slight decrease in the reliance on agriculture, in favor of agrotourism serving residents of near-by Łęczna, and Lublin area. The community hosts number of farmers who grow apples, strawberries, pears, currants, raspberries, gooseberries, tobacco, corn, beer hops and various other crops.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP] Kodki  Kodki is a village, located 11 km west of Bhuj, in Kachchh District in the state of Gujarat, India. It is one of 24 gramas (villages) occupied by the Shree Kutch Leva Patel Community (SKPLC).  Kodki was originally a settlement of Rebari and Maaldharis. (Nomadic tribes, whose main activity is cattle herding). The earliest arrival of Kanbis dates back to 1870s (from dabasiya and Hiranis). Halais and Hiranis were the earliest Kanbis to settle in Kodki and take up agriculture. The original name was Bhavanipur, named after the Maaldhari's family goddess Bhavani Maa.  In 2007, the village had a population of approximately 4000 people, and a total of 600 houses.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP] Bhuj Assembly constituency  Bhuj is one of the 182 Legislative Assembly constituencies of Gujarat state in India. It is part of Kachchh district. It is numbered as 3-Bhuj.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP] Love marriage  A love marriage is one which is driven solely by the couple, with or without consent of their parents, as opposed to arranged marriage. While there is no clear definition of love marriage, the term was in common use globally during the Victorian era.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP] Daniel Kottke  Daniel Kottke () is an American businessman known for being a college friend of Steve Jobs and one of the first employees of Apple Inc.
In what country is Kodki? [SEP] Kokdu: Season of Deity  Kokdu: Season of Deity () is an upcoming South Korean television series starring Kim Jung-hyun, Im Soo-hyang, Kim Da-som, Ahn Woo-yeon, Kim In-kwon, and Cha Chung-hwa. It is scheduled to premiere on January 27, 2023 on MBC TV, and will air every Friday and Saturday at 21:50 (KST).<ref name="Premiere"/>
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP]  Javar Tan (, also Romanized as Jāvar Tan, Javer Tan, and Jūratān; also known as Jāyartan) is a village in Dasturan Rural District, in the Central District of Joghatai County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 172, in 50 families.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP]  Sofyan Tan (陈金揚; peh-oe-ji: Tan Kim Yang) is an Chinese Indonesian doctor and politician from Medan. He was elected as member of the People's Representative Council in 2019 from the North Sumatran first electoral district. He was born and raised in Medan, attending Sutomo School and later studying Medicine at the Universitas Methodist Indonesia.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP]  Tandi Dorji (རྟ་མགྲིན་རྡོ་རྗེ་, Wylie : Rta mgrin rdo rje; born 2 September 1968) is a Bhutanese politician who has been Foreign Minister for Bhutan since November 2018. He has been a member of the National Assembly of Bhutan, since October 2018.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP]  He was born and lives on the island of Bali. He studied architecture at the Jakarta University which he hasn't graduated. In 1996, he completed the management course at the Faculty of Economics of Udayana University (Denpasar). He works as an editor of the cultural magazines “Cak” and “Paradoks”. Participant of poetry festivals in Indonesia, Holland, France, Tasmania, Suriname, South Africa. He used to be also a guitarist of the band "Ariesta". A member of the literary association "Sanggar Minum Kopi".
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP]  Tan Tjin Kie, Majoor-titulair der Chinezen (January 25, 1853–February 13, 1919) was a high-ranking bureaucrat, courtier, sugar baron and head of the prominent Tan family of Cirebon, part of the ‘Cabang Atas’ or Chinese gentry of the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). He is best remembered today for his lavish, 40-day-long funeral ceremony of 1919, reputedly the most expensive ever held in Java.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP] Javar Tan  Javar Tan (, also Romanized as Jāvar Tan, Javer Tan, and Jūratān; also known as Jāyartan) is a village in Dasturan Rural District, in the Central District of Joghatai County, Razavi Khorasan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 172, in 50 families.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP] Tan Kah Kee  Tan Kah Kee (; 21 October 1874 – 12 August 1961) was a Chinese businessman, investor, and philanthropist active in Singapore and the Chinese cities of Hong Kong, Shanghai, Xiamen, and Guangzhou.   A prominent figure in the overseas Chinese community in Singapore and wider Southeast Asia during the 20th century, he was responsible for gathering much support from the community to aid China in major events such as the Xinhai Revolution (1911), the Kuomintang's Northern Expedition (1926–28), and the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937–45).   Apart from donating most of his assets and earnings to aid China in those major events, Tan set up funds in Southeast Asia and Hong Kong and contributed to the establishment of several schools in Southeast Asia and China's Fujian Province, including Xiamen University.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP] Tan Tjin Kie  Tan Tjin Kie, Majoor-titulair der Chinezen (January 25, 1853–February 13, 1919) was a high-ranking bureaucrat, courtier, sugar baron and head of the prominent Tan family of Cirebon, part of the ‘Cabang Atas’ or Chinese gentry of the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). He is best remembered today for his lavish, 40-day-long funeral ceremony of 1919, reputedly the most expensive ever held in Java.
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP] Tan family of Cirebon  The Tan family of Cirebon was an influential family of government officials, sugar barons and landowners in the Dutch East Indies, particularly in the Residency of Cirebon. The preeminent and oldest family of the ‘Cabang Atas’ gentry in Cirebon all through the 19th and early 20th century, their most well-known member today is Tan Tjin Kie, "Majoor-titulair der Chinezen" (January 25, 1853 – February 13, 1919).<ref name="Wacana (2017)" /><ref name="Haryono (2017)" />
In what country is Javar Tan? [SEP] Orangutan  Orangutans are great apes native to the rainforests of Indonesia and Malaysia. They are now found only in parts of Borneo and Sumatra, but during the Pleistocene they ranged throughout Southeast Asia and South China. Classified in the genus Pongo, orangutans were originally considered to be one species. From 1996, they were divided into two species: the Bornean orangutan ("P. pygmaeus", with three subspecies) and the Sumatran orangutan ("P. abelii"). A third species, the Tapanuli orangutan ("P. tapanuliensis"), was identified definitively in 2017. The orangutans are the only surviving species of the subfamily Ponginae, which diverged genetically from the other hominids (gorillas, chimpanzees, and humans) between 19.3 and 15.7 million years ago.  The most arboreal of the great apes, orangutans spend most of their time in trees. They have proportionally long arms and short legs, and have reddish-brown hair covering their bodies. Adult males weigh about , while females reach about . Dominant adult males develop distinctive cheek pads or flanges and make long calls that attract females and intimidate rivals; younger subordinate males do not and more resemble adult females. Orangutans are the most solitary of the great apes: social bonds occur primarily between mothers and their dependent offspring. Fruit is the most important component of an orangutan's diet; but they will also eat vegetation, bark, honey, insects and bird eggs. They can live over 30 years, both in the wild and in captivity.  Orangutans are among the most intelligent primates. They use a variety of sophisticated tools and construct elaborate sleeping nests each night from branches and foliage. The apes' learning abilities have been studied extensively. There may be distinctive cultures within populations. Orangutans have been featured in literature and art since at least the 18th century, particularly in works that comment on human society. Field studies of the apes were pioneered by primatologist Birutė Galdikas and they have been kept in captive facilities around the world since at least the early 19th century.  All three orangutan species are considered critically endangered. Human activities have caused severe declines in populations and ranges. Threats to wild orangutan populations include poaching (for bushmeat and retaliation for consuming crops), habitat destruction and deforestation (for palm oil cultivation and logging), and the illegal pet trade. Several conservation and rehabilitation organisations are dedicated to the survival of orangutans in the wild.
In what country is New England? [SEP]  New England is a region comprising six states in the Northeastern United States: Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont. It is bordered by the state of New York to the west and by the Canadian provinces of New Brunswick to the northeast and Quebec to the north. The Atlantic Ocean is to the east and southeast, and Long Island Sound is to the southwest. Boston is New England's largest city, as well as the capital of Massachusetts. Greater Boston is the largest metropolitan area, with nearly a third of New England's population; this area includes Worcester, Massachusetts (the second-largest city in New England), Manchester,
In what country is New England? [SEP]  New England is a region of the United States located in the northeastern corner of the country, bounded by the Atlantic Ocean, Canada and the state of New York, consisting of the modern states of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut. In one of the earliest English settlements in the New World, English Pilgrims from Europe first settled in New England in 1620, in the colony of Plymouth. In the late 18th century, the New England colonies would be among the first North American British colonies to demonstrate ambitions of independence from the British Crown. New England produced the first examples of American literature and philosophy and
In what country is New England? [SEP]  as the Connecticut River, which bisects the region from north to south. Each state is generally subdivided into small municipalities known as towns, many of which are governed by town meetings. While unincorporated areas do exist, they are limited to roughly half of Maine, along with some isolated, sparsely populated northern regions of New Hampshire and Vermont. New England is one of the U.S. Census Bureau's nine regional divisions and the only multi-state region with clear, consistent boundaries. It maintains a strong sense of cultural identity, although the terms of this identity are often contrasted, combining Puritanism with liberalism, agrarian life with industry, and isolation with immigration.
In what country is New England? [SEP]  in the states of Connecticut, Massachusetts and Rhode Island. The combined population density of these states is 786.83/sq mi, compared to northern New England's 63.56/sq mi (2000 census). According to the 2006–08 American Community Survey, 48.7% of New Englanders were male and 51.3% were female. Approximately 22.4% of the population were under 18 years of age; 13.5% were over 65 years of age. The six states of New England have the lowest birth rate in the U.S. White Americans make up the majority of New England's population at 83.4% of the total population, Hispanic and Latino Americans are New England's largest minority, and they are the second-largest group
In what country is New England? [SEP]  exists between urban, mobile New Englanders living along the densely populated coastline, and in much of Connecticut, and rural New Englanders in western Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine, where population density is low. The creative economy also plays an important role in the larger economy of New England. In 2002, there were nearly 275,000 workers in the region engaged in cultural enterprises, with nearly half in Massachusetts alone. As a percentage of the workforce compared to other US states, Massachusetts ranks first for architects, Connecticut ranks third for producers and directors, Maine ranks fourth for visual artists, New Hampshire ranks eleventh for writers, Rhode Island ranks first for photographers, and Vermont ranks third for visual artists, announcers, and writers.
In what country is New England? [SEP]
In what country is New England? [SEP]
In what country is New England? [SEP] Lovecraft Country  Lovecraft Country is a term coined for the New England setting used by H. P. Lovecraft in many of his weird fiction stories, which combines real and fictitious locations. This setting has since been elaborated on by other writers working in the Cthulhu Mythos. The phrase was not in use during Lovecraft's own lifetime. Instead the phrase "Lovecraft Country" was coined by Keith Herber for the Lovecraftian role-playing game "Call of Cthulhu".  The phrase is only one of many attempts to label the setting of Lovecraft's works. Alternative phrases include Arkham County, Miskatonic County, and the Miskatonic region.
In what country is New England? [SEP] New Haven, Connecticut  New Haven is a city in the U.S. state of Connecticut. It is located on New Haven Harbor on the northern shore of Long Island Sound in New Haven County, Connecticut and is part of the New York City metropolitan area. With a population of 134,023 as determined by the 2020 U.S. census, New Haven is the third largest city in Connecticut after Bridgeport and Stamford and the principal municipality of Greater New Haven, which had a total 2020 population of 864,835.  New Haven was one of the first planned cities in the U.S. A year after its founding by English Puritans in 1638, eight streets were laid out in a four-by-four grid, creating the "Nine Square Plan". The central common block is the New Haven Green, a square at the center of Downtown New Haven. The Green is now a National Historic Landmark, and the "Nine Square Plan" is recognized by the American Planning Association as a National Planning Landmark.  New Haven is the home of Yale University, New Haven's biggest taxpayer and employer, and an integral part of the city's economy. Health care, professional and financial services and retail trade also contribute to the city's economic activity.  The city served as co-capital of Connecticut from 1701 until 1873, when sole governance was transferred to the more centrally located city of Hartford. New Haven has since billed itself as the "Cultural Capital of Connecticut" for its supply of established theaters, museums, and music venues. New Haven had the first public tree planting program in America, producing a canopy of mature trees (including some large elms) that gave the city the nickname "The Elm City".
In what country is New England? [SEP] Boston  Boston (), officially the City of Boston, is the state capital and most populous city of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, as well as the cultural and financial center of the New England region of the United States. It is the 24th-most populous city in the country. The city boundaries encompass an area of about  and a population of 675,647 as of 2020. It is the seat of Suffolk County (although the county government was disbanded on July 1, 1999). The city is the economic and cultural anchor of a substantially larger metropolitan area known as Greater Boston, a metropolitan statistical area (MSA) home to a census-estimated 4.8 million people in 2016 and ranking as the tenth-largest MSA in the country. A broader combined statistical area (CSA), generally corresponding to the commuting area and including Providence, Rhode Island, is home to approximately 8.2 million people, making it the sixth most populous in the United States.  Boston is one of the oldest municipalities in America, founded on the Shawmut Peninsula in 1630 by Puritan settlers from the English town of the same name. It was the scene of several key events of the American Revolution and the nation's founding, such as the Boston Massacre, the Boston Tea Party, the Battle of Bunker Hill, and the siege of Boston. Upon American independence from Great Britain, the city continued to be an important port and manufacturing hub as well as a center for education and culture. The city has expanded beyond the original peninsula through land reclamation and municipal annexation. Its rich history attracts many tourists, with Faneuil Hall alone drawing more than 20 million visitors per year. Boston's many firsts include the United States' first public park (Boston Common, 1634), first public or state school (Boston Latin School, 1635) first subway system (Tremont Street subway, 1897), and first large public library (Boston Public Library, 1848).  Today, Boston is a center of scientific research; the area's many colleges and universities, notably Harvard and MIT, make it a world leader in higher education, including law, medicine, engineering and business, and the city is considered to be a global pioneer in innovation and entrepreneurship, with nearly 5,000 startups. Boston's economic base also includes finance, professional and business services, biotechnology, information technology, and government activities. Boston is a hub for LGBT culture and LGBT activism in the United States. Households in the city claim the highest average rate of philanthropy in the United States. Boston businesses and institutions rank among the top in the country for environmental sustainability and new investment.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Kowale (Kawallen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Oborniki Śląskie, within Trzebnica County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Kowale is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Konopiska, within Częstochowa County, Silesian Voivodeship, in southern Poland. It lies approximately 14 km south-west of Częstochowa and 51 km north of the regional capital Katowice. The village has a population of 129.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Kowalów is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wiązów, within Strzelin County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany. It lies approximately 7 km south of Wiązów, 12 km east of Strzelin, and 43 km south of the regional capital Wrocław.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Kowalowa (Schmidtsdorf) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Mieroszów, within Wałbrzych County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It lies approximately 2 km east of Mieroszów, 14 km south of Wałbrzych, and 78 km south-west of the regional capital Wrocław.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Kowalowo is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wąsosz, within Góra County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP] Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship  Kowale () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Oborniki Śląskie, within Trzebnica County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Prior to 1945 it was in Germany.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP] Kowale  Kowale may refer to the following places in Poland:
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP] Wrocław  Wrocław (; , ; Silesian German: "Brassel") is a city in southwestern Poland and the largest city in the historical region of Silesia. It lies on the banks of the River Oder in the Silesian Lowlands of Central Europe, roughly from the Baltic Sea to the north and from the Sudeten Mountains to the south. , the official population of Wrocław is 672,929, with a total of 1.25 million residing in the metropolitan area, making it the third largest city in Poland.  Wrocław is the historical capital of Silesia and Lower Silesia. Today, it is the capital of the Lower Silesian Voivodeship. The history of the city dates back over a thousand years; at various times, it has been part of the Kingdom of Poland, the Kingdom of Bohemia, the Kingdom of Hungary, the Habsburg monarchy of Austria, the Kingdom of Prussia and Germany. Wrocław became part of Poland again in 1945 as part of the Recovered Territories, the result of extensive border changes and expulsions after the Second World War.  Wrocław is a university city with a student population of over 130,000, making it one of the most youth-oriented cities in the country. Since the beginning of the 20th century, the University of Wrocław, previously Breslau University, has produced nine Nobel Prize laureates and is renowned for its high quality of teaching. Wrocław also possesses numerous historical landmarks, including the Main Market Square, Cathedral Island, Wrocław Opera, the National Museum and the Centennial Hall, which is listed as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. The city is also home to the Wrocław Zoo, which was established in 1865, making it the oldest zoological garden in Poland.  In 1989, 1995 and 2019 Wrocław hosted the European Youth Meetings of the Taizé Community and hosted the Eucharistic Congress in 1997 and the 2012 European Football Championship. In 2016, the city was a European Capital of Culture and the World Book Capital. Also in that year, Wrocław hosted the Theatre Olympics, World Bridge Games and the European Film Awards. In 2017, the city was host to the IFLA Annual Conference and the World Games. In 2019, it was named a UNESCO City of Literature.  Wrocław is classified as a Gamma global city by GaWC. It was placed among the top 100 cities in the world for the Mercer Quality of Living Survey 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019 and in the top 100 of the smartest cities in the world in the IESE Cities in Motion Index 2017 and 2019 report. In February 2021, "fDi Intelligence" published a report, "Global Cities of the Future 2021/2022", in which Wrocław was classified in 1st place among all medium and small cities in the world.
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Kowale, Lower Silesian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP]  Obeakpu is a small village in Umuaka, Njaba, Imo State, Nigeria. Obeakpu is located at 5.69933°N, -7.031°W. The village of Amakor (now an autonomous community) is located to the east. Umele village is nearby in the west. The southern part of Obeakpu borders Ibele (now also an autonomous community). The Njaba River borders the village to the north.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP]  Oladipupo Olatunde Adebutu was born on 25 February 1962 in Lagos, Nigeria. In 1964, he began his primary education at the International Day Nursery school, Yaba and went on to further his education at St. Saviours Primary School, Oke-Ira, Ebute-Metta and Igbobi College where he obtained his West African School Certificate in 1978. Adebutu completed his educational career in Ireland where he obtained an Irish Leaving Certificate in 1980 and an Irish National Certificate in 1983. In 1984, he obtained an Irish National Diploma in Analytical Chemistry. Adebutu returned to Nigeria in 1987 to serve his country under the National Youth Service Corps Scheme in Biu, Borno State. Despite his wealth, Adebutu lives in Iperu with his family, having all his assets in Ogun State without any traces of financial crimes. He is perceived by many as a grassroot politician and businessman.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP]  Edikor Eyokpu is an Oron Village in Udung Uko local government area of Akwa Ibom state in Nigeria.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP]  He was born in Negombo, Western Province near Pannala. He pursued his primary education at the Pannala National School. He also pursued his interest in track and field events while studying at the Pannala National School. He later switched to the St. Joseph Vaz College, Wennepuwa at the age of 16 with the recommendation of his personal coach. He also follows MotoGP.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP]  Atapupu is a port town in the Indonesian part of Timor Island (West Timor, in Kakuluk Mesak District of Belu Regency in East Nusa Tenggara Province. It is located on the northernmost part of West Timor, close to the border with East Timor.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP] Njaba  Njaba is a Local Government Area of Imo State, Nigeria. Its headquarters is located in the town of Nnenasa. It has an area of 84 km and a population of 143,485 at the 2006 census. The 2011 density projection is 2,004.5 inhabitants/km.  Njaba was formed from the initial letters of Njaba River. Njaba river springs from the north-western part of Isu, Isu Njaba town. Flows down to Oguta and finally settles into the famous Oguta Lake. On May 27, 1980, NJALGA was created as part of the Isu Local Government Area by Alhaji Shehu Shagari who was the head of Civilian Government.  It has the responsibility of collecting licence fees. It also has the ability to discharge such functions as public health; pre-school, primary and adult education; town planning; waste disposal; local transportation; and roads maintenance.  The following are the towns that make up Njaba : Umaka,  Achara, Amafor, Amainyi, Ibele, Amakor, Isiozi, Obeakpu, Ogbelle, Uba, Umele, Ukwudo, Abazu, Umuawi, Umudirogha, Umuelem, Umuneke, Umuofeke, Umuokwara, Umuseke, Amucha, Aguwa,   Duriaku, Duruewuru, Duroboaku, Duruigwe, Ebeasaa,    Ebeise, Eziene, Umuduruoka, Umunudo, Umunzu, Umuokpoko, Umuoma, Umuorji, Umuzikeabum,  Atta, Egwedu, Eziuba, Isiekwe, Ohima, Ubokoro, Ubudom, Ugbele, Umuerim, Umumanu, Umunam, Umuoke.  Njaba Local Government Area is bounded by Oru East LGA, Isu, Mbaitolu, Orlu and Nkwerre Local Government Areas. Njaba LGA is located at the east of Oru East Local Government Area, Awo-omamma as the nearest border with Okwudor.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP] Oyigbo  Oyigbo is a town, 30 kilometers from the port city of Port Harcourt and a local government area of Rivers State, Nigeria.  Sir Precious Oforji was elected Chairman of the Oyigbo LGA in 2008. EZE Mike Nwaji was enthroned as the crowned traditional king of Obigbo in 1998. The towns and villages in Oyigbo Local Government area include : Oyigbo district; Asa, Komkom, Obeama, Oyigbo, while for the Ndoki district they include Afa Uku, Afam, Afam Nta, Azusogu, Egberu, Mgboji, Mrihu, Obeakpu, Obeta, Obumku,Okoloma, Okponta, Umuagbai, Umuosi.<ref name=":0" />
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP] Umuaka  The Umuaka Autonomous Community is a city in Njaba Local Government Area of Imo State, Nigeria. Umuaka is situated almost mid way between Orlu and Owerri. The Orlu/Owerri Road passes almost through the center of Umuaka crossing the Ukwuorji-Nkwerre/Amaigbo Road at Afor Umuaka Market.  Umuaka is made up of ten autonomous communities, Achara, Amaiyi, Amakor, Isiozi, Uba, Ugbele, Ibele, Umuele, Obinwanne and Obeakpu.  Umuaka has a total area of 26.5km2, about 15,000 households and half of Njaba local governments population. Its population is about 100,000 making Umuaka Ebieri the largest demographic groups in Njaba local government which has a total population of 197,600.  The area is dense rain forest situated in the Njaba river valley. Njaba River is part of a network of water ways in the rain forest that facilitated trade and development for millennia. The people of Umuaka are predominantly traders and farmers. Umuaka is home to the second biggest market in Imo State. Ime Afo, the main market is a magnet of commercial activity and has been an important part of local trade routes for over 500 years. Its position near the Njaba River made it an important market on ancient trade roots. Today it still serves as major feeder market for numerous community markets and small traders in Njaba local government.  The annual Oghu Festival and Christmas are the two most important dates in the social life of Umuaka. Oghu is celebrated from July through August and attracts tourists, visitors and the Umuaka Diaspora. Veiled dancers and masked spirits display their skills and their finery, women weave family bonds with delicious delicacies and children learn sacred community traditions. During December each year Umuaka hosts the annual socio-cultural Simon Okoro Memorial Lecture (since 2002), a football competition and a Christmas carnival. Sons and daughters of Umuaka in Diaspora return in large numbers during these dates and the city and its residents look forward to the festivities and opportunities for cooperation. There are several fine hotels in Umuaka to stay in.  Emmanuel Emenike, member of the Nigerian national team hails from Umuaka, also Helen Ukaonu, gold medalist with the Nigerian female football team that won gold during the African female Nations Cup hails from the city.  In June 2021 Umuaka was announced as one of 50 cities worldwide selected for the Champions phase of Bloomberg Philanthropies 2021 Mayor's Challenge. UmuAka proposes to develop an app that enables survivors, social workers, and service providers to report gender-based violence incidents, coordinate services including a city health insurance scheme and provide microfinance to support economic independence.  UmuAka is one of 50 Champion Cities Selected to Advance in Global Innovation Competition Uncovering Most Transformative Urban Solutions to Emerge During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP] List of villages in Rivers State  This is a list of villages and settlements in Rivers State, Nigeria arranged by local government area(LGA) and district/area (with postal codes also given).
In what country is Obeakpu? [SEP] Oguta  Oguta is a town on the east bank of Oguta Lake in Imo State of southeastern Nigeria.  Oguta is called "Oguta-Ameshi" or "Ameshi"- by its aborigines. Indigenes - consists of two parts, the old part which holds the 27 villages of Oguta, and the new part, called the "Oguta New Layout".  Oguta New Layout, as a rule, is strict compliance with its original master plan. Oguta Town by location is embedded between Oguta Lake on the eastern side, and Obana River that joined Okposha River, on the western side, leaving only the Egwe Gateway as the only dry land route into Oguta without passing through water or a bridge.  Oguta as a tourist destination, makes most people including natives to have the preponderance to describe Oguta Town more often - as being located on the east bank of Oguta Lake. Oguta's high-yield oil and gas fields make Oguta an important territory and geographic area, hosting many multinational oil companies like AGIP, Shell, Chevron. Some times Oguta is used as a synonym for Oguta Local Government Area, which has Oguta as its headquarters. Oguta LGA is one of the twenty seven local government areas that make up the Imo State.  In turn, Imo State is one of the five states that make up the South-East geopolitical region, which is one of the six geopolitical regions that make up The Federal Republic of Nigeria. With its Oguide Lake and Urashi River bestowing her peculiar advantages, Oguta was one of the chosen endowed territories that the British through the instrumentality of the Royal Niger Company, UAC, and then the British Colonial Government used and exploited diversely.  Due to its strategic waterways, oil and gas, palm produce, agricultural products, natural resources, Oguta was one of the oldest trade and administrative Centres in Nigeria. Connected to River Niger, Oguta waterways were used by the British and later Nigerian government forces during the Nigeria - Biafra civil war as routes through which to access and connect to the adjoining towns, villages and other settlement types nearer and further from Oguta, that were and remain principally peopled by other ethnic Igbo people the Mgbidi, Orlu, Awo-Omamma, Nkwerre, Owerri, Okigwe, Umuahia, Aba/Ngwa people, among others, who are substantial parts of the Eastern Nigerian population in the hinterland, collectively called "The Igbos".  As of 2012, that Oguta's population was estimated at 20,096.  FESTIVALS   Omerife: Is the annual New Yam Festival celebrated during harvest time in Oguta. It holds from the last week of August to the third week of September.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]  La Couarde-sur-Mer is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France. It is situated on the Île de Ré.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]  La Couarde is a former commune in the Deux-Sèvres department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in western France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune Prailles-La Couarde.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]  The commune is located on the French coast of the English Channel, on the Côte Fleurie, between Deauville and Houlgate, approximately 200 km from Paris. It is the northernmost French commune through which falls the Prime meridian. The latter is represented on the seafront promenade with a blue mark on the ground and on the parapet. This mark is positioned 32 metres west of the actual meridian in use today, the IERS Reference Meridian.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]  The Pointe du Grouin du Cou Lighthouse (sometimes called the La Tranche-sur-Mer Lighthouse) is a French lighthouse, located on the eponymous point in the southern part of the Vendée department; it guards the entrance to the Pertuis Breton on the Île de Ré, on the west side of La Tranche-sur-Mer. The lighthouse, constructed in 1953 to a design by Maurice Durand, replaces an earlier tower that was destroyed by retreating German troops during World War II.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]  L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue (L'Illa de Sòrga or L'Illa de Venissa ) is a town and commune on the Sorgue river in Southeastern France. Politically, the commune is in the arrondissement of Avignon within the department of Vaucluse, in the région of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. The small town is famous for its many antique shops and hosts antique markets most Sundays. It has many waterside cafés and restaurants, all within walking distance of each other. Its many attractive water wheels throughout the town are still in working order. Keith Floyd, the British TV chef and bon viveur, established a restaurant there during a lengthy sojourn in France. L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue had a population of 19,398 as of 2016. It is twinned with the towns of Penicuik in the United Kingdom and Anagni in Italy.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP] La Couarde-sur-Mer  La Couarde-sur-Mer (, literally "La Couarde on Sea") is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France. It is situated on the Île de Ré.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP]
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP] Arrondissement of La Rochelle  The Arrondissement of La Rochelle () is an arrondissement of France, located in the Charente-Maritime department, region of Nouvelle-Aquitaine. It has 58 communes.
In what country is La Couarde-sur-Mer? [SEP] Maxime Bono  Maxime Bono (born 1 November 1947 in Algiers, Algeria) is a French politician and a member of the Socialist Party. He has been mayor of La Rochelle from April 1999 to April 2014, president of the Agglomeration community of La Rochelle from January 2000 to April 2014  and an MP of the Charente-Maritime's 1st constituency from April 1999 until June 2012. During his two mandates, he was a member of the Socialist, Radical, Citizen and Miscellaneous Left parliamentary group.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] 1) Alkersleben ; 2) Bösleben-Wüllersleben ; 3) Dornheim ; 4) Elleben ; 5) Elxleben ; 6) Osthausen-Wülfershausen ; 7) Witzleben Riechheimer Berg is a Verwaltungsgemeinschaft ("collective municipality") in the district Ilm-Kreis, in Thuringia, Germany. The seat of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft is in Kirchheim, itself not part of the Verwaltungsgemeinschaft. The Verwaltungsgemeinschaft Riechheimer Berg consists of the following municipalities:
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP]  The Bergstein is a natural monument in the borough of Neustadt an der Weinstraße in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. It is designated as ND-7316-202.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP]  Bergheim is a German town, some twenty km west of Cologne and the capital of the Rhein-Erft-Kreis (district). The town's Niederaußem district is one of the most important suppliers for energy from lignites in Europe.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP]  Points of interest are the Niederaussem Power Station with the world's tallest cooling tower as well as the Kottenforst-Ville Nature Park.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP]  Berg is a municipality in the district of Germersheim, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It is situated on the border with France. The Ortsteil Neulauterburg, 2 km west of the centre of Berg, is contiguous with the French town Lauterbourg, across the small river Lauter. Berg has a railway station on the regional line from Wörth am Rhein to Lauterbourg.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] Riechheimer Berg  Riechheimer Berg is a "Verwaltungsgemeinschaft" ("collective municipality") in the district Ilm-Kreis, in Thuringia, Germany. The seat of the "Verwaltungsgemeinschaft" is in Osthausen-Wülfershausen.  The "Verwaltungsgemeinschaft" Riechheimer Berg consists of the following municipalities:
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] Alkersleben  Alkersleben is a municipality in the Ilm-Kreis district in Thuringia, Germany. The municipality is a member of the collective municipality Riechheimer Berg.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] Ilm-Kreis  Ilm-Kreis is a district in Thuringia, Germany. It is bounded by (from the north and clockwise) the city of Erfurt, the districts of Weimarer Land, Saalfeld-Rudolstadt and Hildburghausen, the city of Suhl, and the districts of Schmalkalden-Meiningen and Gotha. It is named after the river Ilm, flowing through the district.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] Witzleben  Witzleben is a municipality in the district Ilm-Kreis in Thuringia, Germany.
In what country is Riechheimer Berg? [SEP] Weimarer Land  Weimarer Land is a "Landkreis" (district) in the east of Thuringia, Germany. Neighboring districts are (from the northeast clockwise) the district Burgenlandkreis in Saxony-Anhalt, the district Saale-Holzland and the district-free city Jena, the district Saalfeld-Rudolstadt, Ilm-Kreis, and the district-free city Erfurt. The district-free city Weimar is completely enclosed by the district.
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]  Alexeni is a commune in Ialomița County, Muntenia, Romania, some 65 km north-east of Bucharest, near the town of Urziceni. It is composed of a single village, Alexeni. Until 2001 a Romanian Air Force military helicopters unit was located at the nearby airfield. In 2007, as the airfield was not used by the Romanian Air Force anylonger, the former Minister of Transport Radu Berceanu suggested to use the location for Bucharest's new low-cost flights airport (as the operational tariffs for Bucharest's previous low-cost hub, Aurel Vlaicu Airport, were set to grow). However, some analysts considered the project unrealistic and doomed to fail due to the poor conditions of the infrastructure in the area. Eventually those plans were abandoned and all low-cost flights were moved in March 2012 at Bucharest main airport Henri Coandă International Airport.
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]  The Ogosta (Огоста, Latin: Augusta), is the largest river in Northwestern Bulgaria, a right tributary of the Danube. It originates at Chiprovska Mountain, 2,168 meters high section of the Western Balkan Mountains, at about an altitude of 1,760 meters, on the border with Serbia. The towns of Chiprovtsi, Montana, and Miziya are situated on the river's banks. The Ogosta river is 147.4 km in length and is fed by 40 tributaries (including the Skat River) in a watershed of 3,157 square kilometers. The average water discharge in the lower course of the river is 18 cubic meters per second. Along the river's length there are 14 irrigation systems, 8 hydropower plants, and 13 dams. Although the river is used
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]  The river rises at Vrutok, a few kilometers southwest of Gostivar in North Macedonia. It passes through Gostivar, Skopje and into Veles, crosses the Greek border near Gevgelija, Polykastro and Axioupoli ("town on the Axiós"), before emptying into the Aegean Sea in Central Macedonia, west of Thessaloniki in northern Greece. The Vardar basin comprises two-thirds of the territory of North Macedonia. The valley features fertile lands in the Polog region, around Gevgelija and in the Thessaloniki regional unit. The river is surrounded by mountains elsewhere. The superhighways Greek National Road 1 in Greece and M1 and E75 run within the valley along the river's entire length to near Skopje. The river was very famous during the Ottoman Empire and remains so in modern-day Turkey as the inspiration for many folk songs, of which the most famous is Vardar Ovasi. It has also been depicted on the coat of arms of Skopje, which in turn is incorporated in the city's flag.
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]  The Arda (Арда, Άρδας , Arda ) is a 290 km river in Bulgaria and Greece. It is a tributary of the Maritsa (or Evros). Its source lies in the Bulgarian Rhodope Mountains near the village Arda, part of the municipality of Smolyan. It flows eastward past Rudozem, Kardzhali and Ivaylovgrad and enters Greece in the northern part of the Evros regional unit. It flows into the Maritsa on the border of Greece and Turkey, between the Greek village Kastanies and the Turkish city Edirne. In the Bulgarian section there are three hydroelectric and irrigation dams, Kardzhali Dam, Studen Kladenets and Ivaylovgrad Dam. The Bulgarian section is 229
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]  The Natanebi (ნატანები) is a river in western Georgia, located in the region of Guria. It flows into the Black Sea near Shekvetili. It is 60 km long, and has a drainage basin of 657 km2. The Natanebi corresponds to the ancient River Isis, described by Greek historian Arrian of Nicomedia in his Periplus of the Euxine Sea.
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP] Dorna (river)  The Dorna is a right tributary of the river Bistrița, in Romania. It discharges into the Bistrița in Vatra Dornei. It flows through the villages Dornișoara, Poiana Stampei, Podu Coșnei, Dorna Candrenilor and the town Vatra Dornei. Its length is and its basin size is .
In what country is Alexeni River? [SEP]
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]  The commune is located on the French coast of the English Channel, on the Côte Fleurie, between Deauville and Houlgate, approximately 200 km from Paris. It is the northernmost French commune through which falls the Prime meridian. The latter is represented on the seafront promenade with a blue mark on the ground and on the parapet. This mark is positioned 32 metres west of the actual meridian in use today, the IERS Reference Meridian.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]  Fougères (Felger; Gallo: Foujerr) is a commune and a sub-prefecture of the Ille-et-Vilaine department in the region of Brittany in northwestern France. As of 2017, Fougères had 20,418 inhabitants. The Fougères area comprises approximately 88,000 inhabitants and is currently growing, unlike the town centre.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]  Villers-sur-Thère is a former railway station located in the village Villers-sur-Thère near Allonne in the Oise department, France. It was served by TER Picardie trains from Paris-Nord to Beauvais. As of 2017, it is closed for passenger traffic.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]  Villers-au-Flos is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in the Hauts-de-France region of France.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]  Villers-Chief is a commune in the Doubs department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region in eastern France.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP] Villers-sous-Foucarmont  Villers-sous-Foucarmont is a commune in the Seine-Maritime department in the Normandy region in northern France.
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP] Canton of Blangy-sur-Bresle  The Canton of Blangy-sur-Bresle is a former canton situated in the Seine-Maritime département and in the Haute-Normandie region of northern France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 19 communes, It had a total of 10,681 inhabitants (2012).
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP]
In what country is Villers-sous-Foucarmont? [SEP] Canton of Eu  The Canton of Eu is a canton situated in the Seine-Maritime département and in the Normandy region of northern France.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP]  The North Lake is a former railway station located near North Lake, Thunder Bay District, Ontario. It lies close to La Verendrye Provincial Park and to the well known Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness in the Boundary Waters between Canada and the United States. It was constructed in 1907 as a major station along the Port Arthur, Duluth and Western Railway.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP]  North Lake is a freshwater lake in the suburb of North Lake, located 18 km south of the central business district of Perth, the capital of Western Australia, and 8 km from the Indian Ocean. The suburb and lake are located within the City of Cockburn local government area. It is part of the northernmost lake within a chain of lakes which make up the Beeliar Regional Park (North Lake, Bibra Lake, South Lake, Booragoon Lake, Yangebup Lake, and Thomsons Lake). The lake has been known by this name since 1877, and the name was approved for the suburb in 1954.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP]  The Lakeside Recreation Centre is located in North Lake on the corner of Farrington Road and Bibra Drive. It is home to four basketball courts, a Baptist church, a gym, and a creche. Lakeside Recreation Centre is the home court of the State Basketball League team, the Lakeside Lightning. Apart from North Lake and the surrounding Beeliar Regional Park, the suburb contains the Perth Spanish Club, a golf driving range, Adventure World, Cockburn Ice Skating arena, and an adventure playground next to the lake at Progress Drive.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP]  The North Country (Pays du Nord) is a region of the U.S. state of New York that encompasses the state's extreme northern frontier, bordered by Lake Champlain to the east, the Adirondack Mountains to the south, the Canadian border to the north, and Lake Ontario and the Saint Lawrence Seaway to the west. A mostly rural area, the North Country includes seven counties. Fort Drum, a U.S. Army base, is also located in the North Country, as is the Adirondack Park. As of 2009, the population of the region was 429,092. The term "North Country" was first widely popularized within New York by the 1900 novel Eben Holden by Irving Bacheller.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP]  North Lake is a suburb located 18 km south of the central business district of Perth, the capital of Western Australia, and 8 km from the Indian Ocean. Named after the eponymous lake, the suburb and lake are located within the City of Cockburn local government area.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP] Northlake, Illinois  Northlake is a city in Cook County, Illinois, United States. The population was 12,840 at the 2020 census. The city's moniker is "The City of Friendly People". The name "Northlake" comes from two streets, North Avenue (IL 64) and Lake Street (US 20), which intersect on the city's West border.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP] Northlake, Texas  Northlake is a town in Denton County, Texas, United States. The population was 5,201 in 2020.<ref name=":0" /> The town is located northwest of Grapevine Lake, approximately northwest of Westlake, Texas.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP] Lake Tahoe  Lake Tahoe () is a freshwater lake in the Sierra Nevada of the United States. Lying at , it straddles the state line between California and Nevada, west of Carson City. Lake Tahoe is the largest alpine lake in North America, and at it trails only the five Great Lakes as the largest by volume in the United States. Its depth is , making it the second deepest in the United States after Crater Lake in Oregon ().  The lake was formed about two million years ago as part of the Lake Tahoe Basin, and its modern extent was shaped during the ice ages. It is known for the clarity of its water and the panorama of surrounding mountains on all sides. The area surrounding the lake is also referred to as Lake Tahoe, or simply Tahoe; its name derived from the Washoe Tribal word "Da-ow" meaning lake.https://www.fs.usda.gov/Internet/FSE_DOCUMENTS/stelprdb5251066.pdf/ref> More than 75% of the lake's watershed is national forest land, covered by the Lake Tahoe Basin Management Unit of the United States Forest Service.  Lake Tahoe is a major tourist attraction in both Nevada and California. It is home to winter sports, summer outdoor recreation, and scenery enjoyed throughout the year. Snow and ski resorts are a significant part of the area's economy and reputation. The Nevada side also offers several lakeside casino resorts, with highways providing year-round access to the entire area.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP] Great Lakes  The Great Lakes, also called the Great Lakes of North America, are a series of large interconnected freshwater lakes in the mid-east region of North America that connect to the Atlantic Ocean via the Saint Lawrence River. There are five lakes, which are Superior, Michigan, Huron, Erie, and Ontario and are in general on or near the Canada–United States border. Hydrologically, lakes Michigan and Huron are a single body joined at the Straits of Mackinac. The Great Lakes Waterway enables modern travel and shipping by water among the lakes.   The Great Lakes are the largest group of freshwater lakes on Earth by total area and are second-largest by total volume, containing 21% of the world's surface fresh water by volume. The total surface is , and the total volume (measured at the low water datum) is , slightly less than the volume of Lake Baikal (, 22–23% of the world's surface fresh water). Because of their sea-like characteristics, such as rolling waves, sustained winds, strong currents, great depths, and distant horizons, the five Great Lakes have long been called inland seas. Depending on how it is measured, by surface area, either Lake Superior or Lake Michigan-Huron is the second-largest lake in the world and the largest freshwater lake. Lake Michigan is the largest lake that is entirely within one country.  The Great Lakes began to form at the end of the Last Glacial Period around 14,000 years ago, as retreating ice sheets exposed the basins they had carved into the land, which then filled with meltwater. The lakes have been a major source for transportation, migration, trade, and fishing, serving as a habitat to many aquatic species in a region with much biodiversity. The surrounding region is called the Great Lakes region, which includes the Great Lakes Megalopolis.
In what country is North Lake? [SEP] Northlake, South Carolina  Northlake is a census-designated place (CDP) in Anderson County, South Carolina, United States. The population was 3,745 at the 2010 census.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]  The 112th United States Colored Infantry was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment was composed of African American enlisted men commanded by white officers and was authorized by the Bureau of Colored Troops which was created by the United States War Department on May 22, 1863.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]  The regiment was organized at Little Rock, Arkansas, April 23 to November 8, 1864, as the 5th Regiment Arkansas Volunteer Infantry (African Descent) and assigned to the VII Corps (Union Army). The unit was later re-designated as the 112th United States Colored Infantry.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]  The regiment was consolidated with the 11th U.S. Colored Infantry (Old) and the 113th U.S. Colored Infantry (old) the 113th United States Colored Troops (New) on April 1, 1865. The resulted regiment was mustered out on April 9, 1866.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]  The regiment was consolidated with the 11th Regiment United States Colored Infantry (Old) and the 112th U.S. Colored Infantry on April 1, 1865. The 113th United States Colored Infantry were mustered out a year later, on April 9, 1866.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]  The regiment was attached to 1st Division, 7th Corps, Dept. of Arkansas, June, 1864, to January, 1865. Colored Brigade, 7th Corps, to February, 1865. General Orders No. 14 Department of Arkansas, dated February 1, 1865, from Little Rock, included the 112th United States Colored Infantry is reported as belonging to the 2nd Brigade of the 1st Division of the 7th Army Corps. The regiment was attached to 2nd Brigade, 1st Division, 7th Corps, to April, 1865. The regiment was assigned to post and garrison duty at Little Rock, Ark., entire term.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP] 112th United States Colored Infantry Regiment  The 112th United States Colored Infantry was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment was composed of African American enlisted men commanded by white officers and was authorized by the Bureau of Colored Troops which was created by the United States War Department on May 22, 1863.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP] 113th United States Colored Infantry Regiment  The 113th United States Colored Infantry (formerly the 6th Arkansas Colored Infantry Regiment) was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment was composed of African American enlisted men commanded by white officers and was authorized by the Bureau of Colored Troops which was created by the United States War Department on May 22, 1863.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP] 11th United States Colored Infantry Regiment (Old)  The 11th United States Colored Infantry was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War. The regiment was composed of African American enlisted men commanded by white officers and was authorized by the Bureau of Colored Troops which was created by the United States War Department on May 22, 1863.
In what country is 112th United States Colored Infantry? [SEP]
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]  Storsteinnes Chapel (Storsteinnes kapell) is a parish church of the Church of Norway in Balsfjord Municipality in Troms og Finnmark county, Norway. It is located on the south side of the village of Storsteinnes. It is one of the churches for the Balsfjord parish which is part of the Senja prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Nord-Hålogaland. The white, wooden church was built in a long church style in 1968. The church seats about 200 people.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]  Stordalen Chapel (Stordalen kapell) is a parish church of the Church of Norway in Meråker municipality in Trøndelag county, Norway. It is located in the village of Stordalen. It is one of the three churches in the Meråker parish which is part of the Stjørdal prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Nidaros. The white and yellow, wooden church was built in a long church style in 1863 by the architect Jacob Wilhelm Nordan. The church seats about 130 people.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]  Sollihøgda Chapel (Sollihøgda kapell) is "long church" (langkirke) dating from 1911 in Sollihøgda in the municipality of Hole in Viken county, Norway. The church is part of the Church of Norway and it belongs to the deanery of Ringerike in the Diocese of Tunsberg. The church is built of wood and can accommodate 100 people. It was designed by the architect Herman Major Backer (1856–1932). It can be reached from Kapellveien (Chapel Road), which turns off of European route E16 at the bridge marked Ringeriksporten 'Gateway to Ringerike'.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]  The Chapel in the Hills was dedicated on July 6, 1969, as the home for the radio ministry of Lutheran Vespers. Lutheran Vespers hosts such as, Richard A. Jensen were broadcast nationwide from this location in the Black Hills. The church is a special ministry of the South Dakota Synod of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America. The Chapel in the Hills is an exact replica of the Borgund stave church in Norway. The Borgund stavkirke was built around the year 1150 and is considered the most completely preserved stave church still standing in Norway.  The Norwegian Department of Antiquities provided a set of blueprints of the Borgund church to be used in the construction of the Chapel in the Hills. The woodcarvings resulted from the combined effort by Norwegian woodcarver Erik Fridstrøm and Rapid City resident, Helge Christiansen. The site includes an authentic log cabin museum that was built in 1876 by Edward Nielsen, a Norwegian immigrant gold prospector from Hole, Ringerike, Norway. There is also a stabbur, a grass-roofed house, that serves as the visitor center and gift shop.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]  Stongfjorden Chapel (Stongfjorden bedehuskapell) is a chapel of the Church of Norway in Askvoll Municipality in Vestland county, Norway. It is located in the village of Stongfjorden. It is one of three annex chapels in the Askvoll parish which is part of the Sunnfjord prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Bjørgvin. The white, wooden chapel was built in 1908 in a long church design using plans drawn up by the architect Martinus Haugen. The chapel seats about 300 people.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP] Storsteinnes Chapel  Storsteinnes Chapel () is a parish church of the Church of Norway in Balsfjord Municipality in Troms og Finnmark county, Norway. It is located on the south side of the village of Storsteinnes. It is one of the churches for the Balsfjord parish which is part of the Senja prosti (deanery) in the Diocese of Nord-Hålogaland. The white, wooden church was built in a long church style in 1968. The church seats about 200 people.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP] Storsteinnes  Storsteinnes is the administrative center of Balsfjord Municipality in Troms og Finnmark county, Norway. The village has a population (2017) of 1,076 which gives the village a population density of . This makes it the largest urban area in the municipality. Storsteinnes Chapel is located in this village.
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]
In what country is Storsteinnes Chapel? [SEP]
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]  Ch'uch'u Apachita (Aymara ch'uch'u cold, cold liquid, apachita the place of transit of an important pass in the principal routes of the Andes; name in the Andes for a stone cairn, a little pile of rocks built along the trail in the high mountains,  also spelled Chuchu Apacheta, Chunchu Apacheta ) is a 4855 m mountain in the Andes of Bolivia. It is situated in the La Paz Department, Larecaja Province, Sorata Municipality. Ch'uch'u Apachita lies north of the main range of the Cordillera Real, south to southwest of the mountain Ch'uch'u, northwest of Chunta Qullu and east of Jukumarini. This is where the river Ch'uch'u Jawira originates.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]  Ch'uch'u (Aymara for cold, cold liquid, also spelled Chuchu) is a mountain in the Andes of Bolivia, about 5100 m high. It is situated in the La Paz Department, Larecaja Province, Sorata Municipality. Ch'uch'u lies north of the main range of the Cordillera Real, north to northeast of the mountain Ch'uch'u Apachita. This is where the river Ch'uch'u Jawira originates.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]  The Guachichil, Cuauchichil, or Quauhchichitl, are an Indigenous people of Mexico. Pre-contact, they occupied the most extensive territory of all the indigenous Chichimeca Nations tribes in pre-Columbian Central Mexico. The Guachichiles roamed through a large region of Zacatecas; as well as portions of San Luis Potosí, Guanajuato, and northeastern Jalisco; south to the northern corners of Michoacán; and north to Saltillo in Coahuila. The Guachichil Nation continues to exist in the city of San Luis Potosi, San Luis Potosi, Mexico, and is recognized by the city. They have tribal members in Mexico and the United States.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]  Quri Ch'uma (Aymara quri gold, ch'uma filtering, "gold filtering", also spelled Corichuma, Corri Chuma, Khori Chuma, Korichuma), also named Inmaculado, is a mountain in the Kimsa Cruz mountain range in the Bolivian Andes, about 5,312 metres (17,428 ft) high. It is situated in the La Paz Department, at the border of the Inquisivi Province, Quime Municipality, and the Loayza Province, Cairoma Municipality and Malla Municipality. Quri Ch'uma lies south of Salvador Apachita and northwest of Yaypuri.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]  Chutixtiox (alternatively spelled Xutixtiox, or Chu'Taxtyoox in the Sakapultek language) is an archaeological site of the ancient Maya civilization near Sacapulas, in the Quiché department of modern Guatemala. The site was excavated during the 20th century by A. Ledyard Smith. Ceramic evidence excavated at the site suggests a close relationship with the K'iche' capital of Q'umarkaj. Chutixtiox may have been a settlement in a polity that included the nearby sites of Chutinamit and Xolpacol. The site has been dated to the Late Postclassic period and shows two distinct architectural phases, with the late phase demonstrating close similarity to the central K'iche' region around Q'umarkaj. This matches ethnohistoric documents that describe an early 15th-century conquest of the region by the central K'iche'. The site has been identified as the settlement of the Kumatz group, described as migrating to the area in the Popul Vuh.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP] Ch'uch'u Apachita  Ch'uch'u Apachita (Aymara "ch'uch'u" cold, cold liquid, "apachita" the place of transit of an important pass in the principal routes of the Andes; name in the Andes for a stone cairn, a little pile of rocks built along the trail in the high mountains, also spelled "Chuchu Apacheta,) is a mountain in the Andes of Bolivia. It is situated in the La Paz Department, Larecaja Province, Sorata Municipality. Ch'uch'u Apachita lies north of the main range of the Cordillera Real, south to southwest of the mountain Ch'uch'u, northwest of Chunta Qullu and east of Jukumarini. This is where the river Ch'uch'u Jawira originates.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP] Ch'uch'u  Ch'uch'u (Aymara for cold, cold liquid, also spelled "Chuchu") is a mountain in the Andes of Bolivia, about high. It is situated in the La Paz Department, Larecaja Province, Sorata Municipality. Ch'uch'u lies north of the main range of the Cordillera Real, north to northeast of the mountain Ch'uch'u Apachita. This is where the river Ch'uch'u Jawira originates.
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP]
In what country is Ch'uch'u Apachita? [SEP] Sorata Municipality  Sorata Municipality (Aymara: "Surat'a") is the first municipal section of the Larecaja Province in the La Paz Department, Bolivia. Its capital is Sorata. The Illampu - Janq'u Uma massif is located within the municipality, site of the 17th highest lake in the world, Laguna Glaciar.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP]  Barta'a (برطعة, בַּרְטַּעָה) is a town in Israel and the Palestinian territories that straddles both sides of the Green Line in the Wadi Ara (or Nahal 'Iron) region. Western Barta'a is in the Haifa District of Israel, and forms part of the Basma local council. Its 4,700 residents are Arab citizens of Israel. Eastern Barta'a is in the Palestinian territories in the northern part of the Jenin Governorate of the West Bank in what was designated under the Oslo Accords as Area C. It has 3,600 residents, of whom 30-40 percent carry Israeli identity cards and the rest of whom carry Palestinian identity cards.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP]  Barta is a village in Barisal District in the Barisal Division of southern-central Bangladesh.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP]  Bonik Barta is a Bengali-language daily newspaper of Bangladesh. The newspaper is publishing from Dhaka. The name of the editor of the newspaper is Dewan Hanif Mahmud. In 2018, the circulation of the newspaper was 134,000.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP]  Vít Bárta (born 5 December 1973) is a Czech politician and businessman who served as Minister of Transport from 2010 to 2011 and as Member of the Chamber of Deputies (MP) from 2010 to 2013. Bárta also led political party Věci veřejné during 2011–2013. In 2011 Bárta announced his resignation from the government due to prosecution when he was accused of bribery by his party colleagues.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP]  Aleš Bárta (born 1960 in Rychnov nad Kněžnou, Czech republic) is a Czech Organist. He began his studies at the Brno Conservatory (under Josef Pukl) and continued at the Academy of Music in Prague (Vaclav Rabas). He appears as soloist with leading Czech symphony and chamber orchestras, among them the Prague Symphony orchestra FOK, the Czech Radio Symphony Orchestra, the Prague Chamber Orchestra and the Czech Philharmonic. During his tour of Japan his appearance marked the opening of a new concert hall in Yokohama.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP] Barta'a  Barta'a (, ) is a town in Israel and the Palestinian territories that straddles both sides of the Green Line in the Wadi Ara (or Nahal 'Iron) region.  Western Barta'a is in the Haifa District of Israel, and forms part of the Basma local council. Its 4,700 residents are Arab citizens of Israel.  Eastern Barta'a is in the Palestinian territories in the northern part of the Jenin Governorate of the West Bank in what was designated under the Oslo Accords as Area C. It has 3,600 residents, of whom 30-40 percent carry Israeli identity cards and the rest of whom carry Palestinian identity cards.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP] The Best and Worst of Tred Barta  The Best and Worst of Tred Barta is a reality television series hosted by Tred Barta which began airing on the Outdoor Life Network on November 5, 2004.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP] Akcent  Akcent () is a Romanian dance pop group whose members sing in Romanian, English and Spanish. Their name originated as a wordplay on "accent". The group was created by Adrian Sînă, and Ramona Barta. Their first single "" ("I don't care about anyone") received positive reactions from critics and became the reason Catalin Muraru signed them to Roton in 1999. They released their debut album in 2000. Except for the first track, "", which received some airplay, the album was a commercial failure and the band disbanded. Soon after, Sînă brought Marius Nedelcu, Mihai Gruia and Sorin Brotnei into the group, changing it from a duo to a boyband. They came to prominence once with the release of their hit single "".  The climax of the group's career was the international release of their breakthrough single "Kylie", the English version of their internal hit "" ("Love for rent"). The song reached the peak position in many European charts and fared well enough in countries such as the Netherlands and France. The band participated in the , with hopes of representing Romania in the Eurovision Song Contest. They united with pop singer Nicoleta Matei and entered the song "Jockero", which failed to win. Nevertheless, it became one of their number-one singles on the Romanian Top 100. They continued to see success all through the late 2000s and early 2010s, until the quarrel within the group in September 2013 leaves Sînă the only member of the group.
In what country is Bārta? [SEP] Barta  Barta may refer to:
In what country is Bārta? [SEP] Swasthani Barta (Fast)  Shree Swasthani is a Hindu goddess (Parameshwari) and is responsible for the good fortune, welfare and Power. She is mostly worshipped in Nepal in the holy month from poush Shukla purnima to magh Shukla purnima with dedicated rituals. Following such ritutals within this holy month brought many wishes to be fruitful for many. Through the reciting of story, we can find out the changes in fate provided by Goddess in the lives of several persons. But there are moluch more people who worships and have been satisfied by her blessings. She is a mother who loves you so much that, she will not take you go wrong path no matter the steps she takes for so.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]  Urge is a citrus flavored soft drink produced by Coca-Cola Norway that was first introduced in the country in 1996, and later on was released in Denmark and Sweden. It is the predecessor of the American soft drink Surge, which was introduced in the US in 1997. Urge was discontinued in Denmark and Sweden in 2001. In Norway, Urge sales increased greatly over the years reaching a market share near 10% despite receiving no marketing since its initial launch.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]  The Urge is an alternative rock band based in St. Louis, Missouri. Their music combines several genres, including hardcore punk, heavy metal, ska, reggae, funk, rock, and rhythm and blues. Consistent touring throughout the 1990s earned the band a reputation for high-energy live performances.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]  Urge is a village in Tori Parish, Pärnu County in southwestern Estonia. Prior to the administrative reform of Estonian local governments in 2017, the village was part of Sauga Parish.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]  Urge is a 2016 American thriller film directed by Aaron Kaufman, written by Jerry Stahl, and starring Justin Chatwin, Ashley Greene, Alexis Knapp, Bar Paly, Chris Geere, Nick Thune, Kea Ho, Danny Masterson, and Pierce Brosnan. The film was released on June 3, 2016, in a limited release and through video on demand by Lionsgate Premiere.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]  firm, the product was launched as "Urge". Local food regulation prevented the bright green color from being used, so it was launched with a pale, more natural juice drink look and given a slight orange taste to match the flavor with the color. Until September 15, 2014, when Coca-Cola re-released Surge, Norway was the only country where one could still buy a similar soft drink in any form, as the original Surge recipe was still popular there. Surge was widely associated with the extreme sports lifestyle, with television commercials similar to those used by Mountain Dew at the time. Coca-Cola also used
In what country is Urge? [SEP] Urge (drink)  Urge is a citrus flavored soft drink produced by Coca-Cola Norway that was first introduced in the country in 1996, and later on was released in Denmark and Sweden. It is the predecessor of the American soft drink Surge, which was introduced in the US in 1997. In Norway, Urge sales increased greatly over the years reaching a market share near 10% despite receiving no marketing since its initial launch.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]
In what country is Urge? [SEP] Go West, young man  "Go West, young man" is a phrase, the origin of which is often credited to the American author and newspaper editor Horace Greeley concerning America's expansion westward, related to the concept of Manifest destiny. No one has yet proven who first used this phrase in print.  "The Oxford Dictionary of Quotations" gives the full quotation as, "Go West, young man, and grow up with the country", from "Hints toward Reforms" (1850) by Horace Greeley, but the phrase does not occur in that book.  In 2010, Timothy Hughes of the "Rare & Early Newspapers" blog examined Greeley's writings and concluded that this text also does not appear in the July 13, 1865 issue of the "Tribune": "Here is the "Tribune" of that date and I've scoured through the issue yet never found the quote. The closest I could come is in 'The Homestead Law' article, page 4 column 4, where he mentioned: ' ... We earnestly urge upon all such to turn their faces Westward and colonize the public lands ... '. (See text image)." The actual editorial instead encourages American Civil War veterans to take advantage of the Homestead Act and colonize the public lands. In 1849, Samuel Merritt was making a name for himself as a physician in Plymouth, Mass. Merritt, originally from Harpswell, Maine, completed a difficult operation on a friend of the aging statesman Daniel Webster. Webster lived in nearby Marshfield at the time. Impressed, Webster befriended the young doctor. As they spoke, Merritt admitted his fascination with the gold rush drawing people to California. Webster advised him, “Go out there, young man; go out there and behave yourself, and, free as you are from family cares, you will never regret it.” Samuel took the advice. https://www.newenglandhistoricalsociety.com/daniel-webster-tells-dr-samuel-merritt-go-west/  Greeley favored westward expansion. He saw the fertile farmland of the west as an ideal place for people willing to work hard for the opportunity to succeed. The phrase came to symbolize the idea that agriculture could solve many of the nation's problems of poverty and unemployment characteristic of the big cities of the East. It is one of the most commonly quoted sayings from the nineteenth century and may have had some influence on the course of American history.
In what country is Urge? [SEP] Urge, Rapla County  Urge is a village in Kohila Parish, Rapla County in northwestern Estonia.
In what country is Urge? [SEP]
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]  Siamion Mikalayevich Domash (Сямён Мікалаевіч Домаш, Семён Никола́евич До́маш; 2 January 1950 – 9 February 2019) was a Belarusian politician. Chairman of Grodno Region in 19-1994. He was registered to run in the 2001 Belarusian presidential election, but exited from the campaign, endorsing Vladimir Goncharik.
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]  Domaslovec is a settlement (naselje) in the Samobor administrative territory of Zagreb County, Croatia. As of 2011 it had a population of 949 people.
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]  Domašov u Šternberka (German: Sternberg) is a village and municipality (obec) in Olomouc District in the Olomouc Region of the Czech Republic. The municipality covers an area of 11.74 km2, and has a population of 292 (as at 3 July 2006). Domašov u Šternberka lies approximately 14 km north-east of Olomouc and 214 km east of Prague.
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]  Kiril Petrov Domuschiev (Кирил Петров Домусчиев; born 18 April 1969) is a Bulgarian industrialist, entrepreneur and owner of PFC Ludogorets Razgrad. On 27 January 2012 he was named an honorary citizen of Razgrad, and in 2019 became an honorary citizen of the state of Nebraska, USA.
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]  Domovina (in Czech: Homeland) is a modernist building in Prague 7-Holešovice. It was built between 1919 and 1922 to house a co-operative of railway workers and conductors. The building was designed by Otto V. Máca a Karel Roštík and is listed as a cultural monument of the Czech Republic. On 18 to 23 February 1929, a congress of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia took place in the Domovina hall. Klement Gottwald was elected the chairman of the party. On the facade, there is a plaque commemorating this event.
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]
In what country is Domašov? [SEP]
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP]  Vaiea is one of the fourteen villages of Niue. Its population was 115 as of 2017.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP]  Vaie is a comune (municipality) in the Metropolitan City of Turin in the Italian region Piedmont, located about 35 km west of Turin in the Susa Valley. As of 31 December 2004, it had a population of 1,413 and an area of 7.1 km2. Vaie borders the following municipalities: Condove, Sant'Antonino di Susa, Chiusa di San Michele, Coazze and Valgioie.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] 🇯🇵 Naie, Japan (since 1995) ; 🇪🇪 Väike-Maarja Parish, Estonia (since 1989)
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP]  This marine species is known to be distributed throughout marine terrain off the coasts of New Zealand, within the New Zealand Exclusive Economic Zone (NZEEZ).
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP]  Vao is a village in Väike-Maarja Parish, Lääne-Viru County, in northeastern Estonia. Since 2014, Vao is the location of Vao Accommodation Centre, an accommodation centre for asylum seekers. Since the European migrant crisis has gained wide media attention in Estonia, Vao Centre has become the site of demonstrations against refugees. On 3 September 2015, the external wall of the center was set to fire. No one was hurt in the incident.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] Vaiea  Vaiea is one of the fourteen villages of Niue. Its population was 115 as of 2017.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] Niue Soccer Tournament  Niue Soccer Tournament was the top soccer division in Niue on an amateur basis. It was organised by the Niue Island Soccer Association, which as of 2021 had been defunct for a decade.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] Maupiti  Maupiti is an island in the western Leeward Islands in French Polynesia. It is the westernmost volcanic high island in the archipelago, northwest of Tahiti and west of Bora Bora. It has a population of 1,286 people. The largest town is Vaiea.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] List of top-division football clubs in OFC countries  This is a list of top-division association football clubs in OFC countries. OFC is the football confederation that overseas the sport in Oceania. The OFC is made up of 11 full members and 3 associate members.  The football associations of Australia and Guam are members of AFC, the Asian football confederation (Australia was previously an OFC member but had left), and the football association of Northern Mariana Islands is a provisional associate member of AFC (previously an OFC associate member but had left). The football associations of Kiribati, Niue and Tuvalu are associate members of OFC (but not members of FIFA). The sovereign states of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Nauru and Palau, as well as the dependent territories of Norfolk Island, Pitcairn Islands, Tokelau, and Wallis and Futuna, are not members of OFC or any other football confederation.  Each of the OFC member countries have their own football league systems, as do some non-members. The clubs playing in each top-level league compete for the title as the country's club champions, and also for some countries, places in next season's OFC club competition, i.e., the OFC Champions League. Due to promotion and relegation, the clubs playing in the top-level league in some countries are different every season.  The champions of the previous season in each country are listed in bold.
In what country is Vaiea? [SEP] Liku, Niue  Liku is one of the fourteen villages of Niue, located close to the easternmost part of the island. It lies due east of the capital, Alofi, and its population at the 2017 census was 98.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP]  The Monitor House is a historic house in St. Paris, Ohio, United States. Located along West Main Street, it is a square brick structure resting on a foundation of stone and covered with an asphalt roof. Although the house is primarily one story tall, it is built around a 1 1⁄2-story square clerestory. The house was constructed circa 1860, although its precise date of erection — as well as the names of its first owner and its designer — is unknown. Its five-bay, 30 ft-long exterior is decorated with cornices around the window lintels. Inside, the rooms open onto a central hallway that concludes with a stairway to the second floor of the central
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP]  of the house. In 1974, the Monitor House was listed on the National Register of Historic Places because of its unusual architecture. Only two or three monitor houses, featuring an elevated center, are known to exist in Ohio, and the one in St. Paris is architecturally the most well-preserved; consequently, it is considered historically significant statewide. In contrast, a similar monitor house in Chillicothe, known as "Tanglewood," is only considered locally significant. The house in St. Paris was the first of over thirty places in Champaign County to be listed on the National Register; it is one of two in the village with this distinction, along with the Kiser Mansion on East Main Street.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP]  The International Election Monitors Institute is an association of former Members of the United States Congress (Senate and House of Representatives), the Canadian Parliament and the European Parliament, "to provide former legislators as election observers to operate worldwide in collaboration with other democracy-building organizations".
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP]  Al-Monitor (المونيتور) is a news website launched in February 2012 by the Arab American entrepreneur Jamal Daniel and based in Washington, DC, United States. Al-Monitor provides reporting and analysis from and about the Middle East.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP]  The Monitor Action Group is a political party in Namibia. The party came into existence as the transformation of the National Party of South West Africa in 1991, Kosie Pretorius became its first chairperson and served until his retirement from active politics in June 2013. The party is based among conservative Afrikaners, with most of the top leadership having served in the government of apartheid South West Africa. In June 2009, the party contended that aspects of the affirmative action policy of Namibia violated the country's constitution.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP] Situation Room  The Situation Room, officially known as the John F. Kennedy Conference Room, is a  conference room and intelligence management center in the basement of the West Wing of the White House. It is run by the National Security Council staff for the use of the President of the United States and his advisors (including the National Security Advisor, the Homeland Security Advisor and the White House Chief of Staff) to monitor and deal with crises at home and abroad and to conduct secure communications with outside (often overseas) persons. The Situation Room is equipped with secure, advanced communications equipment for the president to maintain command and control of U.S. forces around the world.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP] Electronic tagging  Electronic tagging is a form of surveillance that uses an electronic device affixed to a person.  In some jurisdictions, an electronic tag fitted above the ankle is used for people as part of their bail or probation conditions. It is also used in healthcare settings and in immigration contexts. Electronic tagging can be used in combination with the global positioning system (GPS). For short-range monitoring of a person that wears an electronic tag, radio frequency technology is used.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP] House arrest  In justice and law, house arrest (also called home confinement, home detention, or, in modern times, electronic monitoring) is a measure by which a person is confined by the authorities to their residence. Travel is usually restricted, if allowed at all. House arrest is an alternative to being in a prison while awaiting trial or after sentencing.  While house arrest can be applied to criminal cases when prison does not seem an appropriate measure, the term is often applied to the use of house confinement as a measure of repression by authoritarian governments against political dissidents. In these cases, the person under house arrest often does not have access to any means of communication with people outside of the home; if electronic communication is allowed, conversations may be monitored.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP] Freedom House  Freedom House is a non-profit, majority U.S. government funded organization in Washington, D.C., that conducts research and advocacy on democracy, political freedom, and human rights. Freedom House was founded in October 1941, and Wendell Willkie and Eleanor Roosevelt served as its first honorary chairpersons.  It describes itself as a "clear voice for democracy and freedom around the world", although some critics have stated that the organization is biased towards U.S. interests as it is government-funded. The organization was 66% funded by grants from the U.S. government in 2006, a number which has increased to 86% in 2016.  The organization's annual "Freedom in the World" report, which assesses each country's degree of political freedoms and civil liberties, is frequently cited by political scientists, journalists, and policymakers. "Freedom of the Press" and "Freedom on the Net", which monitor censorship, intimidation and violence against journalists, and public access to information, are among its other signature reports.
In what country is Monitor House? [SEP] Internet censorship and surveillance by country  This list of Internet censorship and surveillance by country provides information on the types and levels of Internet censorship and surveillance that is occurring in countries around the world.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP]  Sagoni is a town in Katni district, Madhya Pradesh, India.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP]  Sagone is a village on the island of Savai'i in Samoa. It is situated on the south coast of the island in the district of Satupa'itea and the electoral district of Salega 2. The population is 625.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP]  Sagoni Khurd is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP]  Sagoni Jora is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP]  Antonio (Tony) Giuseppe Sagona (1956 &ndash; 2017), was an archaeologist and classics professor who taught at the University of Melbourne in Victoria, Australia. Tony Sagona was born in Tripoli, Libya, on April 30, 1956. Accompanying his parents, Salvatore and Maria he migrated to Australia in 1960, initially settling in Williamstown, Victoria. Sagona received his education at Emmanuel College, Altona, completing his secondary education in 1973 and in the Humanities Department at the University of Melbourne. His PhD topic was the archaeology of the early Bronze Age Kura-Araxes culture of the Caucasus Region, which he completed in 1984. This was published as The Caucasian
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP] Chor Sagoni  Chor Sagoni is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Huzur tehsil and the Phanda block.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP] Sagoni Khurd  Sagoni Khurd is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP] Sagoni Jora  Sagoni Jora is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP] Sagoni Kalan, Berasia  Sagoni Kalan is a village in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is located in the Berasia tehsil.
In what country is Sagoni? [SEP] Sigourney Weaver  Susan Alexandra "Sigourney" Weaver (; born October 8, 1949) is an American actress. A figure in science fiction and popular culture, she has received various accolades, including a British Academy Film Award, two Golden Globe Awards, and a Grammy Award, in addition to nominations for three Academy Awards, four Primetime Emmy Awards, and a Tony Award. In 2003 she was voted Number 20 in Channel 4's countdown of the 100 Greatest Movie Stars of All Time.  Weaver rose to fame when she was cast as Ellen Ripley in the Ridley Scott directed science fiction film "Alien" (1979), which earned her a nomination for the BAFTA Award for Most Promising Newcomer. She reprised the role with a critically acclaimed performance in James Cameron's "Aliens" (1986), for which she received her first Academy Award nomination. She returned to the role in two more sequels: "Alien 3" (1992) and "Alien Resurrection" (1997). The character is regarded as a significant female protagonist in cinema history. Her other franchise roles include Dana Barrett in "Ghostbusters" (1984), "Ghostbusters II" (1989) and "" (2021). She reunited with Cameron portraying Dr. Grace Augustine in "Avatar" (2009)—which remains the highest-grossing film of all time—and returned in "" (2022), portraying Kiri te Suli Kìreysì'ite.   Known for her work on the Broadway stage she received a Tony Award nomination for her role in the play "Hurlyburly" (1984). Further acclaim came with playing primatologist Dian Fossey in "Gorillas in the Mist" (1988), for which she won a Golden Globe Award, and in the same year, winning another Golden Globe Award for her performance in "Working Girl". Weaver was the first actor to have two acting wins at the Golden Globes in the same year; she also received an Academy Award nomination for both films (Actress in a Leading Role and Actress in a Supporting Role, respectively). She received the BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role in "The Ice Storm" (1997). She has since starred in film such as "" (1992), "Death and the Maiden" (1994), "Galaxy Quest" (1999), "Holes" (2003), "The Village" (2004), "Infamous" (2006), "You Again" (2010), and "Master Gardener" (2022).   Although best known for her role in the "Alien" franchise, Weaver has fostered a prolific filmography, appearing in more than 60 films. She's also known for her extensive voiceover work including the animated films, "The Tale of Despereaux" (2008) and Pixar films "WALL-E" (2008) and "Finding Dory" (2016) as well as several documentaries, such as the BBC series "Planet Earth" (2006) and "" (2016).
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]  The Eeuwfeestkliniek (Centenary Clinic) is a surgical hospital in Antwerp, Belgium. Built in 1930, it was constructed on the centenary of Belgium for the city of Antwerp. After World War II, it came under the control of the Augustinian nuns and in the 1980s became part of the Monica healthcare umbrella. It was extensively renovated in the 1990s. The hospital specialises in oncology, Emergency medical services, Cardiothoracic Surgery and Oral and maxillofacial surgery.
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP] The town hall and belfry have been designated by UNESCO as a World Heritage Site in 1999. ; Eeklo has a few notable churches and chapels, such as the St Vincent Church (Sint-Vincentiuskerk) and the chapel of the clinic of the Holy Heart (Heilig Hartkliniek). ; A nearby provincial park, “Het Leen”, includes an arboretum and museum. ; A local park, the Heldenpark, offers concerts in summer, and houses a playground for children, bowling areas for seniors, and a soccer and baseball field.
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]  has since 1992 initiated and coordinated a multitude of national, trans-national projects amongst others in Albania, Belarus, Bulgaria, Bosnia-in-Herzegovina, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Turkey and Ukraine. In these projects she has worked on professional capacity building, development of educational tools, implementation through training and the development of independent local networks and organizations promoting innovative and responsible history and citizenship education. Joke van der Leeuw-Roord operates as consultant for the Council of Europe, UNESCO, OSCE, International Alert and the European Union. She is Member of the Advisory Board of the Georg Eckert Institute in Braunschweig
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]  The seat of the European External Action Service (initially referred to as The Capital, and thereafter sometimes the Triangle building) is the office building on Schuman roundabout in the heart of the European Quarter of Brussels, Belgium, in which most of the European External Action Service (EEAS) resides. The building also houses some other EU departments. The EEAS staff moved into the building in February 2012.
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]  Ee  is a village in the northern Netherlands. It is located in the municipality of Noardeast-Fryslân, Friesland, east of Dokkum. Ee had approximately 834 inhabitants in January 2017. Before 2019, the village was part of the Dongeradeel municipality. There are various types of buildings in Ee, including a church built in 1220. The only flax museum of the Netherlands is also located in Ee. Ee has mostly remained an intact rural village. Ee has the shortest name of all places in the Netherlands.
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP] Timeline of Antwerp  The following is a of the history of the municipality of Antwerp, Belgium.
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP]
In what country is Eeuwfeestkliniek? [SEP] List of hospitals in Belgium  This is a list of hospitals and hospital networks in Belgium as of August 2019, sorted per region and per province. For each hospital or hospital network, the list includes if applicable their specialisation, the municipalities where they are located, any international hospital accreditation they have obtained as well as their number of hospital beds (an indicator of the overall size and importance of the hospital or network). Note that in Dutch a hospital is called "ziekenhuis", "kliniek" or "hospitaal", whilst in French a hospital is called "hôpital", "centre hospitalier" or "clinique". Some common abbreviations in this list are:
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Łupiny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wiśniew, within Siedlce County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km south-west of Wiśniew, 13 km south of Siedlce, and 87 km east of Warsaw. The village has a population of 293.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Łupiny, Lupinenfelde, is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Słupsk, within Słupsk County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km south-east of Słupsk and 99 km west of the regional capital Gdańsk. Before 1945 the area of Farther Pomerania, where the settlement is located, was part of Germany. For the post-war history of the region, see History of Pomerania. The settlement has a population of 6.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Słupca is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Bulkowo, within Płock County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north-west of Bulkowo, 26 km east of Płock, and 76 km north-west of Warsaw.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Słup is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szczawin Kościelny, within Gostynin County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]  Łupki (Lupken) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Pisz, within Pisz County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 5 km north-east of Pisz and 92 km east of the regional capital Olsztyn. Before 1945 the area was part of Germany (East Prussia).
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP] Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship  Łupiny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wiśniew, within Siedlce County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately south-west of Wiśniew, south of Siedlce, and east of Warsaw.  The village has a population of 293.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP] Łupiny, Pomeranian Voivodeship  Łupiny , , is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Słupsk, within Słupsk County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately south-east of Słupsk and west of the regional capital Gdańsk.  Before 1945 the area of Farther Pomerania, where the settlement is located, was part of Germany. For the post-war history of the region, see "History of Pomerania".  The settlement has a population of 6.
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Łupiny, Masovian Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]  Xaaga (pronounced Saaga) is a small town South-West from the town of San Pablo Villa de Mitla in the Valles Centrales of the State of Oaxaca, Mexico. It is about 10 km (as the crow flies) far away from Hierve el Agua.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]  Xagal is a town in Berbera District, in the Sahil Region of Somaliland.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]  Enagás, S.A. (, originally an initialism for Empresa Nacional del Gas) is a Spanish energy company and European transmission system operator (TSO), which owns and operates the nation's gas grid. The firm also owns four liquefied natural gas regasification terminals in the country, at Huelva, Barcelona, Cartagena and Gijon. In addition, it owns 50% of the plant BBG (Bilbao) and 100% of Gascan. The chairman of Enagás is Antonio Llardén Carratalá and his Chief Executive Officer is Marcelino Oreja Arburúa. The firm's headquarters are located in Madrid. Apart from Spain, Enagás has presence in Mexico, Perú, Chile, Sweden and in the Trans Adriatic Pipeline (TAP) European project.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]  Ximelagatran (Exanta or Exarta, H 376/95) is an anticoagulant that has been investigated extensively as a replacement for warfarin that would overcome the problematic dietary, drug interaction, and monitoring issues associated with warfarin therapy. In 2006, its manufacturer AstraZeneca announced that it would withdraw pending applications for marketing approval after reports of hepatotoxicity (liver damage) during trials, and discontinue its distribution in countries where the drug had been approved (Germany, Portugal, Sweden, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Austria, Denmark, France, Switzerland, Argentina and Brazil).
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]  Ráfaga is a band in the Argentine cumbia. Formed in 1994, they started playing in Argentine cumbia clubs and quickly gained popularity. The band is characterised by medieval outfits and jewelry, sometimes becoming close to an image that can be described like a Liberace style. In 1997 and 1998 they participated in the Midem Latino de Musica in Miami, which gave them an international reputation, taking their music to other countries such as Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia, Peru, and even to Spain at the end of 1999. In 2001 they went on a North American tour to Canada, then to New York, Washington and Miami. They continued touring, with concerts in other countries such as Romania (where "La luna y tú" was used for a commercial), Sweden, Norway, Switzerland, China and Australia.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]
In what country is Xaga? [SEP] POCO (company)  POCO, formerly known as POCO by Xiaomi and Pocophone, is a Chinese company specialized in smartphones. The Poco brand was first announced in August 2018 as a mid-range smartphone line under Xiaomi. Poco India became an independent company on 17 January 2020, followed by its global counterpart on 24 November 2020. Poco released its first smartphone, the Pocophone F1 in August 2018.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP] Rivermaya  Rivermaya is a Filipino alternative rock band. Formed in 1994, it is one of the several bands who spearheaded the 1990s Philippine alternative rock explosion.  Rivermaya is currently composed of original members Mark Escueta and Nathan Azarcon, together with longest serving guitarist Mike Elgar. Notable former original members include chief songwriter Rico Blanco and vocalist Bamboo Mañalac, who later formed the band Bamboo and later went on his solo career.  Rivermaya is one of the top thirty best-selling artists in Philippine history.
In what country is Xaga? [SEP]
In what country is Xaga? [SEP] Wilfried Zaha  Dazet Wilfried Armel Zaha (born 10 November 1992) is a professional footballer who plays as a forward for club Crystal Palace and the Ivory Coast national team.  Zaha advanced into the Crystal Palace first team from their academy, in 2010. In his first three full seasons at Selhurst Park, he scored 18 goals in all competitions. In January 2013, he was transferred to Manchester United for an initial fee of £10 million (the most expensive Crystal Palace player sold at the time). Zaha remained on loan at Palace until the end of the season, helping them return to the Premier League. After an unsuccessful 2013–14 season with Manchester United (mostly spent on loan at Cardiff City), Zaha returned to Palace in August 2014 on a season-long loan, before rejoining the club on a permanent basis in February 2015. He has since become the club's 12th-highest goal scorer.  Born in the Ivory Coast, Zaha grew up in England from age four. He made his debut for the England national team in 2012, appearing in two non-competitive matches (the latter of which came in 2013). After not playing for England for four years, he switched to play for Ivory Coast ahead of the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]  Babino is a rural settlement in the Chambellan commune of the Jérémie Arrondissement, in the Grand'Anse department of Haiti.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]  Bas-Limbé (Ba Lenbe) is a commune in the Limbé Arrondissement, in the Nord department of Haiti. It has 50 ,456 inhabitants.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]  Chambellan (Chanbèlan) is a commune in the Jérémie Arrondissement, in the Grand'Anse department of Haiti. It has 16,883 inhabitants. Villages located within the commune include: Babino, Cadette, Grande Plaine, Granger, La Coude and Laterriere.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]  Bahon (Bawon), sometimes called Bohon, is a commune in Grande-Rivière-du-Nord Arrondissement in the Nord, department of Haiti. It is located on the Grand Rivière du Nord (river). It was formerly (1915) located on the railroad south from Cap-Haïtien.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]  Canada has recently financed the renovation of the police station. The town's primary economic activity is trade with neighboring Dajabon. • Seeking to combat contraband and encourage domestic production, in 2015 Haiti banned the importation by truck of 23 items, including bottled drinking water and spaghetti.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP] Babino, Grand'Anse  Babino is a rural settlement in the Chambellan commune of the Jérémie Arrondissement, in the Grand'Anse department of Haiti.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP] Babino  Babino may refer to the following places:
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP] Chambellan  Chambellan () is a commune in the Jérémie Arrondissement, in the Grand'Anse department of Haiti. It has 16,883 inhabitants.  Villages located within the commune include: Babino, Cadette, Grande Plaine, Granger, La Coude and Laterriere.
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]
In what country is Babino, Haiti? [SEP]
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP]  Hatna is a village in the southern state of Karnataka, India, located in the Mandya district.
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP]  There are no big markets in this union. The villagers usually go to Hathazari for marketings. A haat takes place on the bank of Halda River twice a week which is known as "Kanno Hat".
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP]  353) Hathugoda ; 354) Hatiya Island ; 355) Hatiya Upazila ; 356) Hatiyaldeniya ; 357) Hatiyalwela ; 358) Hatnagoda ; 359) Hatrick Hodi Maga ; 360) Hatthikuchchi ; 361) Hatthikuchchi Museum ; 362) Hatton National Bank ; 363) Hatton railway station (Sri Lanka) ; 364) Hatton, Sri Lanka ; 365) Hatugoda ; 366) Havelock City ; 367) Havelock Island ; 368) Havelock Park ; 369) Havelock Road bombing ; 370) Havelock Sports Club ; 371) Havelock Town ; 372) Havelock executive council of Ceylon ; 373) Havigannada dialect ; 374) Havina Hede ; 375) Hay MacDowall ; 376) Hayden Crozier ;
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP]  Matgoda is located at 22.7745°N, 86.9038°W.
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP]  Hatadage (Sinhala: හැටදාගේ) is an ancient relic shrine in the city of Polonnaruwa, Sri Lanka. It was built by King Nissanka Malla, and had been used to keep the Relic of the tooth of the Buddha. The Hatadage had been built using stone, brick and wood, although only parts of the brick and stone walls now remain. It appears to have been a two-storey structure, but the upper storey has now been destroyed. Three Buddha statues carved out of granite rock are located within a chamber of the shrine.
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP] Hatnagoda  Hatnagoda is a village in Sri Lanka. It is located within Central Province.
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP] holiday resort, hosting about 200,000 to 300,000 tourists each summer, mostly Lithuanians, Germans, Latvians, and Russians. It is characterized by low-key entertainment and a distinct family focus. However, during recent years it become a decent point of interest for fine electronica music and modern art shows at an eclectic forest retreat. Since 2001, a jazz festival has been held every year. A local radio station Neringa FM streams live beats over FM and online. There are also interesting places to see nearby, including some of the highest sand dunes in Europe, a large sundial (which has been restored after being
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP] Vansda National Park Vansda National Park, also known as Bansda National Park, is a protected area which represents the thick woodlands of the Dangs and southern Gujarat, and is situated in the Vansda tehsil, Navsari District of Gujarat State, India. Riding on the banks of Ambika River and measuring roughly 24 km in area, the park lies about 65 km east of the town of Chikhali on the National Highway 8, and about 80 km north-east of the city of Valsad. Vansda, the town from which the name of the park is derived, is an important trading place for the
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP] Hatadage Hatadage (Sinhala: ) is an ancient relic shrine in the city of Polonnaruwa, Sri Lanka. It was built by King Nissanka Malla, and had been used to keep the Relic of the tooth of the Buddha. The Hatadage had been built using stone, brick and wood, although only parts of the brick and stone walls now remain. It appears to have been a two-storey structure, but the upper storey has now been destroyed. Three Buddha statues carved out of granite rock are located within a chamber of the shrine. The Hatadage is located in the ancient city of Polonnaruwa,
In what country is Hatnagoda? [SEP] Hosahalli Hosahalli is one of twin-villages Mattur-Hosahalli, on the banks of the Tunga River in Karnataka state, southern India. It lies in an agricultural region where the main crop is the Areca nut. It is known for Sanskrit, Veda, Gamaka (story-telling) and Sangeetha (Carnatic music). From above, the village appears as a "Paa Ni Pee Tha" (a seat with an extended hand). The village is situated a little over 5 km from Shimoga city and around 4 km from Gajanur Tunga Anicut (dam). The village has several temples or religious sites. Gayathri Veda Pathashaala is a residential vedic school which
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]  Deodara is a census town in Mandla district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is an extended part of Mandla city. It connects the city centre to the local tourist spot of Shehestra Dhara, a holy site situated on the bank of Narmada river. Poor roads and no government water pipeline availability are some of the concerning issues of the locals residing here. There are many beautiful Ghats on the bank of River Narmada situated here like Gau Ghat and Chakrateerath Gath.It is considered as an urban panchayat which is part of Mandla city.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]  The species natively occurs in Afghanistan, Tibet, Nepal, Pakistan, and India (Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu-Kashmir).
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]  As of the 2011 Census of India, Deodara had a population of 10,008. Males constitute 52% of the population and females 48%. Deodara has an average literacy rate of 91%, higher than the national average of 74%: male literacy is 95% and, female literacy is 84%. In Deodara, 13% of the population is under 6 years of age.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]  Deodar Forests are forests dominated by Cedrus deodara also known as Deodar Cedars. These types of trees are found naturally in Western Himalayas from Gandaki river in central Nepal to Hindukush Mountain range in Afghanistan. Deodar Cedar (Cedrus deodara) is native to the Himalayan Mountains where its local name is Deodar, which translates from the original Sanskrit as "timber of the gods". They were officially introduced into cultivation in 1831 although they have been grown in Chinese parks and gardens for centuries.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]  The native forests of the Deodar Cedar are located in the Himalayan mountain range and spread from Nepal through Pakistan, India and Afghanistan. This range is mostly dominated by Cedrus deodara but also shares its space with an assortment of other species as well. Other species include Quercus ilex, Juglans regia, Taxus wallichiana, Picea smithiana, Abies pinerow, Pinus giardiana, Pinus wallichiana. There are several areas that appear "monospecific" where 99 percent Cedrus deodara is the dominant species. Most of the monospecific areas are dry temperate areas, however there are a few recorded monospecific areas that are moist temperate regions. Deodar forests have been recorded to start growing at an elevation of 5,600 ft and will stop at about 9,000 ft. The Cedrus deodara will not tolerate temperatures below 0 degrees Fahrenheit despite its natural high elevation.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP] Cedrus deodara  Cedrus deodara, the deodar cedar, Himalayan cedar, or deodar, is a species of cedar native to the Himalayas.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP] Deodar forests  Deodar Forests are forests dominated by "Cedru"s "deodara", also known as Deodar Cedars. These types of trees are found naturally in Western Himalayas from Gandaki river in central Nepal to Hindukush Mountain range in Afghanistan.  Deodar Cedar ("Cedrus deodara") is native to the Himalayan Mountains where its local name is Deodar, which translates from the original Sanskrit as "timber of the gods". They were officially introduced into cultivation in 1831 although they have been grown in Chinese parks and gardens for centuries.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]
In what country is Deodara? [SEP] Deodara  Deodara is a census town in Mandla district in the state of Madhya Pradesh, India. It is an extended part of Mandla city. It connects the city centre to the local tourist spot of Shehestra Dhara, a holy site situated on the bank of Narmada river. Poor roads and no government water pipeline availability are some of the concerning issues of the locals residing here. There are many beautiful Ghats on the bank of River Narmada situated here like Gau Ghat and Chakrateerath Gath.It is considered as an urban panchayat which is part of Mandla city.
In what country is Deodara? [SEP]
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP]  Puzdrowizna is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brok, within Ostrów Mazowiecka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km north-west of Brok, 10 km south-west of Ostrów Mazowiecka, and 80 km north-east of Warsaw.
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP]  Puzdrowo (Kashubian: Pùzdrowò, Pusdrowo) is a Kashubian village in the administrative district of Gmina Sierakowice, within Kartuzy County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km south-west of Sierakowice, 23 km west of Kartuzy, and 51 km west of the regional capital Gdańsk. For details of the history of the region, see History of Pomerania. The village has a population of 810.
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP]  Puzdrowski Młyn (Pùzdrowsczi Młin) is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Sierakowice, within Kartuzy County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 3 km west of Sierakowice, 23 km west of Kartuzy, and 51 km west of the regional capital Gdańsk. For details of the history of the region, see History of Pomerania.
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP]  Puszcza Darżlubska or Lasy Piaśnickie (Darżlubska Wilderness or Darżlubie / Piaśnica Forest) located in northernmost part of Poland, is a Polish forests complex on the Baltic Sea, within the geographical region of Pobrzeże Kaszubskie; on the south-side bordering the Tricity Landscape Park (Trójmiejski Park Krajobrazowy) from which it is separated by the Reda river. Inside Darżlubie Forest there are two nature reserves (Polish protected areas). The wilderness is also the source of two rivers: Piaśnica and Gizdepka. The name of Puszcza Darżlubska comes from the nearby village of Darżlubie in the administrative district of Gmina Puck, north of Gdańsk. Puszcza Darżlubska is the second largest site of mass killings of Polish civilians in Pomerania (after Stutthof) during World War II, with up to 16,000 victims murdered on the site. Polish migrant worker families residing in Germany pre-war were the he
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] 🇦🇹 Fischamend, Austria ; 🇷🇴 Ghindari, Romania ; 🇫🇮 Hämeenlinna, Finland ; Hattem, Netherlands ; 🇵🇱 Krasnystaw, Poland Püspökladány is twinned with:
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] Puzdrowizna  Puzdrowizna is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Brok, within Ostrów Mazowiecka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately north-west of Brok, south-west of Ostrów Mazowiecka, and north-east of Warsaw.
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] Gmina Brok  Gmina Brok is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Ostrów Mazowiecka County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. Its seat is the town of Brok, which lies approximately south of Ostrów Mazowiecka and north-east of Warsaw.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 2,843, of which the population of Brok is 1,859, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 984.
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] smaller local villages. Note that records less than 100 years old stored in Poland—which in this case means either AGAD or the Warsaw USC office—are not open to the public due to strict Polish privacy laws. This does not affect records stored in Ukraine. Some of these vital records, particularly the ones stored at AGAD in Warsaw, have been microfilmed by the Mormons (LDS Church) and the microfilms are available to research at their Family History Centers, free of charge. Nadvirna is twinned with: Nadvirna Nadvírna, also referred to as "Nadwirna" or "Nadvorna" (, Polish: Nadwórna, , "Nadvorna") is a
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] in Puszczykowo. In 2012 tennis player Angelique Kerber moved to Puszczykowo. Puszczykowo Puszczykowo () is a town in Poznań County, Poland, with 9,177 inhabitants (as of 2004). It is located about south of Poznań, the area is surrounded by the Wielkopolski National Park (located within the park buffer zone). From 1934–54, there was a rural village Puszczykowo. From 1975–98 the town administratively belonged to the regional capital Poznań. The first time Puszczykowo name appears in written sources in the form of Posczucowo was in 1387. Residential buildings, characteristic of present-day town date from the close of the 19th century. The
In what country is Puzdrowizna? [SEP] Międzyzdroje Międzyzdroje , (), is a town and a seaside resort in northwestern Poland on the island of Wolin on the Baltic coast. Previously in the Szczecin Voivodeship (1975–1998), Międzyzdroje has been in Kamień Pomorski County in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship since 1999. Międzyzdroje has a population of around 5,500 (2016). The town is often referred to as "The Pearl of the Baltic". It is situated between wide sandy beaches with high cliffs and the forests of the Woliński National Park (which includes a bison reserve). Międzyzdroje has a spa climate and is rich in tourist services. Towards the very
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]  Harisan (, also Romanized as Harīsān; also known as Harsān) is a village in Qareh Chay Rural District, in the Central District of Saveh County, Markazi Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 686, in 168 families.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]  Hari Hari is defined by Statistics New Zealand as a rural settlement and covers 50.43 km2. It is part of the wider Whataroa-Harihari statistical area. The population of Hari Hari was 237 in the 2018 census, a decrease of 6 from 2013. There were 120 males and 117 females. 93.7% of people identified as European/Pākehā, 11.4% as Māori, 2.5% as Pacific peoples and 2.5% as Asian. 16.5% were under 15 years old, 13.9% were 15–29, 48.1% were 30–64, and 21.5% were 65 or older.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]  Sinar Harian (Daily Light) is a Malay-language daily newspaper published in Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia in a compact format. It first hit the newsstands on 31 March 2006 in the East Coast states of Kelantan and Terengganu before expanding its distribution to the state of Selangor and the federal territory of Kuala Lumpur in the West Coast in September 2007. The newspaper occasionally organises public forums and debates at which politicians and public figures are invited to speak, regardless of viewpoint. Sinar Daily is published by Akhbar Cabaran Sdn Bhd, a company related to the Kumpulan Karangkraf & Ultimate Group of Companies, a major publishing interest in Malaysia and currently has a cover price of RM 1.20.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]  Badr Hari was born and raised in Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands. He began kickboxing at the age of seven under the guidance of former World Champion Mousid Akamrane. As a teenager, he trained at the Sitan Gym of Mohammed Aït Hassou. When the Sitan Gym moved to Rotterdam, he joined Chakuriki Gym, run by Thom Harinck. Hari fought under the Dutch flag until he lost to Stefan Leko in 2005. Hari, who tried to publicly address the audience after his defeat, was booed so loudly that no one could make out his words. He expressed disappointment in the Dutch fans: "I thought to myself, I have never witnessed such ungratefulness." From then on Hari has represented Morocco and stopped working with Harinck. Mike Passenier became his new coach.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]  Haría is a village in the municipality of Haría in the north of the island of Lanzarote in the Canary Islands. The town had a population of 1,128 in the 2011 census. The town is the capital of the municipality of Haría. It lies in a valley known as the Valley of 1,000 Palms. A craft market is held in the town on Saturdays. The artist Cesar Manrique is buried in the cemetery of Haría.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP] Harrison, Arkansas  Harrison is a city and the county seat of Boone County, Arkansas, United States. It is named after General Marcus LaRue Harrison, a surveyor who laid out the city along Crooked Creek at Stifler Springs. According to 2019 Census Bureau estimates, the population of the city was 13,069, up from 12,943 at the 2010 census and it is the 30th largest city in Arkansas based on official 2019 estimates from the U.S. Census Bureau. Harrison is the principal city of the Harrison Micropolitan Statistical Area, which includes all of Boone and Newton counties.  The community has a history of racism: there were two race riots in the early 20th century and an influx of white supremacist organizations during the late 20th and early 21st centuries.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP] Harrison, New Jersey  Harrison is a town in the western part of Hudson County in the U.S. state of New Jersey. It is part of the New York metropolitan area. It is a suburb of the nearby city of Newark, New Jersey, and is located from New York City.  As of the 2020 U.S. census, Harrison's population was 19,450, which had in turn decreased by 804 (−5.6%) from the 14,424 counted in the 2000 Census. Once considered "the beehive of industry", the town is undergoing a residential renewal, particularly along the Passaic River.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP] Harrison's Cave  Harrison's Cave is a tourist attraction in the country of Barbados, first mentioned in 1795. Tourists can access the subterranean environment on a tramway.
In what country is Harisan? [SEP]
In what country is Harisan? [SEP] Benjamin Harrison  Benjamin Harrison (August 20, 1833March 13, 1901) was an American lawyer and politician who served as the 23rd president of the United States from 1889 to 1893. He was a member of the Harrison family of Virginia–a grandson of the ninth president, William Henry Harrison, and a great-grandson of Benjamin Harrison V, a Founding Father.  Harrison was born on a farm by the Ohio River and graduated from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. After moving to Indianapolis, he established himself as a prominent local attorney, Presbyterian church leader, and politician in Indiana. During the American Civil War, he served in the Union Army as a colonel, and was confirmed by the U.S. Senate as a brevet brigadier general of volunteers in 1865. Harrison unsuccessfully ran for governor of Indiana in 1876. The Indiana General Assembly elected Harrison to a six-year term in the Senate, where he served from 1881 to 1887.  A Republican, Harrison was elected to the presidency in 1888, defeating the Democratic incumbent Grover Cleveland in the Electoral College despite losing the popular vote. Hallmarks of Harrison's administration included unprecedented economic legislation, including the McKinley Tariff, which imposed historic protective trade rates, and the Sherman Antitrust Act. Harrison also facilitated the creation of the national forest reserves through an amendment to the Land Revision Act of 1891. During his administration six western states were admitted to the Union. In addition, Harrison substantially strengthened and modernized the U.S. Navy and conducted an active foreign policy, but his proposals to secure federal education funding as well as voting rights enforcement for African Americans were unsuccessful.  Due in large part to surplus revenues from the tariffs, federal spending reached one billion dollars for the first time during his term. The spending issue in part led to the defeat of the Republicans in the 1890 midterm elections. Cleveland defeated Harrison for reelection in 1892, due to the growing unpopularity of high tariffs and high federal spending. He returned to private life and his law practice in Indianapolis. In 1899 he represented Venezuela in its British Guiana boundary dispute with Great Britain. Harrison traveled to the court in Paris as part of the case and after a brief stay returned to Indianapolis. He died at his home in Indianapolis in 1901 of complications from influenza. Many have praised Harrison's commitment to African Americans' voting rights, but scholars and historians generally regard his administration as below average. They rank him in the bottom half among U.S. presidents.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]  Ločenice is a municipality and village in České Budějovice District in the South Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 700 inhabitants. Ločenice lies approximately 18 km south of České Budějovice and 141 km south of Prague.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]  The village of Nesměň is an administrative part of Ločenice.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]  Loděnice is a municipality and village in Beroun District in the Central Bohemian Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 2,000 inhabitants.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]  In Loděnice is located the world's largest vinyl records manufacturer GZ Media.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]  The village of Jánská is an administrative part of Loděnice.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP] List of German names for places in the Czech Republic  The names of places in what is today the Czech Republic have evolved during their history. The list concerns primarily the settlements, but bilingual names for significant mountains and rivers are also listed. Places are sorted alphabetically according to their German names.  Many of the German names are now exonyms, but used to be endonyms commonly used by the local German population, who had lived in many of these places until shortly after World War II.  Until 1866, the only official language of the Austrian Empire administration was German. Some place names were merely "Germanized" versions of the original Czech names, as seen e.g. from their etymology. The compromise of 1867 marked a recognition of the need for bilingualism in areas where an important portion of the population used another language; the procedure was imposed by official instructions in 1871.
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]
In what country is Ločenice? [SEP]
In what country is Aki? [SEP]  Aki (pronounced Ah-kee) is a surname, a given name and a nickname. Aki is a common Japanese, Finnish and Nigerian given name. Aki is also a Japanese surname, and also of one of the Vysya families in India. They mainly reside in Andhra Pradesh, India.
In what country is Aki? [SEP]  JS Aki (AOS-5203) is a Hibiki-class ocean surveillance ship of Japan Maritime Self-Defense Force.
In what country is Aki? [SEP]  Aki (安芸郡) is a district located in Hiroshima Prefecture, Japan. It is the location of Mazda's automobile factory which has been on the site since the early 1930s. As of 1798 population data but counting decreases due to the March 20, 2005 merger, the district has an estimated population of 116,573 and a density of 1588 persons per km2. The total area is 73.41 km2.
In what country is Aki? [SEP]  Sources:
In what country is Aki? [SEP]  The river's gorge is a popular recreation area.
In what country is Aki? [SEP] Aki Province
In what country is Aki? [SEP] Bundee Aki  Bundee Aki (born 7 April 1990) is a professional rugby union player who plays for Connacht in the URC and the Ireland national team. Aki was born and grew up in New Zealand, of Samoan descent, and qualified for Ireland through residency. A centre, he has also played for New Zealand provincial team Counties Manukau and for the Chiefs in Super Rugby.  Aki has won a Super Rugby title with the Chiefs and a Pro12 title with Connacht. In 2015–16 he was named the league's player of the season. Aki was selected to represent the British and Irish Lions for their 2021 tour to South Africa.
In what country is Aki? [SEP]
In what country is Aki? [SEP] Octane rating  An octane rating, or octane number, is a standard measure of a fuel's ability to withstand compression in an internal combustion engine without detonating. The higher the octane number, the more compression the fuel can withstand before detonating. Octane rating does not relate directly to the power output or the energy content of the fuel per unit mass or volume, but simply indicates gasoline's capability against compression.  Whether or not a higher octane fuel improves or impairs an engine's performance depends on the design of the engine. In broad terms, fuels with a higher octane rating are used in higher-compression gasoline engines, which may yield higher power for these engines. Such higher power comes from the fuel's higher compression by the engine design, and not directly from the gasoline.  In contrast, fuels with lower octane (but higher cetane numbers) are ideal for diesel engines because diesel engines (also called compression-ignition engines) do not compress the fuel, but rather compress only air and then inject fuel into the air that was heated by compression. Gasoline engines rely on ignition of air and fuel compressed together as a mixture, which is ignited near the end of the compression stroke by electric spark plugs. Therefore, high compressibility of the fuel matters mainly for gasoline engines. Using gasoline with lower octane may cause engine knocking (pre-ignition).  The octane rating of aviation gasoline was extremely important in determining aero engine performance in the aircraft of World War II. The octane rating alone did not only determine the performance of the gasoline, but also the versatility of the fuel in handling a range of lean to rich operating conditions.<ref name=Haitch1978/>
In what country is Aki? [SEP] Aki and Pawpaw  Aki and Pawpaw is a 2021 Nigerian comedy film co-produced by Play Network Studios and Film One Entertainment. The comedy film directed by Biodun Stephen, written by Steph Boyo and Ozioma Ogbaji was a remake of the Aki na Ukwa 2002 comedic movie produced by Chinedu Ikedieze and Osita Iheme. The comedy stars Amechi Muonagor, Real Warri Pikin, Blessing Jessica Obasi, Charles Inojie, Chioma Okafor, Uti Nwachukwu, Toyin Abraham, Stan Nze, Juliet Ibrahim, and Francis Sule.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]  The Taia is a right tributary of the river Jiul de Est in Romania. It discharges into the Jiul de Est in the town Petrila. Its length is 21 km and its basin size is 88 km2.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]  The Jong or Taia river is a river flowing through Sierra Leone. It passes by the city of Mattru Jong, and flows into the Atlantic Ocean via some deltas.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]  The Taieri River is the fourth-longest river in New Zealand and is in Otago in the South Island. Rising in the Lammerlaw Range, it initially flows north, then east around the Rock and Pillar range before turning southeast, reaching the sea 30 km south of Dunedin. The upper reaches meander in a series of convoluted loops across a floodplain above Paerau, close to the aptly named locality of Serpentine; the river has created many small oxbow lakes in this area, some of which have been converted into water meadows. From here the river runs through two small hydroelectric power stations before reaching Patearoa in the Maniototo. The Taieri then arcs through almost 180 degrees, entering a broad glacial valley (the Strath-Taieri)
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]  “Tairua River.” Nzfishing.com, nzfishing.com/auckland-waikato/where-to-fish/tairua-river/. Accessed 18 Oct. 2021.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]  The Taița is a river in Tulcea County, Romania. North of the town Babadag it discharges into Lake Babadag, which is connected with Lake Razim, a former lagoon of the Black Sea. Its length is 57 km and its basin size is 591 km2.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP] Taia (river)  The Taia is a right tributary of the river Jiul de Est in Romania. It discharges into the Jiul de Est in the town Petrila. Its length is and its basin size is .
In what country is Taia River? [SEP] Jong River  The Jong or Taia river is a river flowing through Sierra Leone. It passes by the city of Mattru Jong, and flows into the Atlantic Ocean via some deltas.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP]
In what country is Taia River? [SEP] Leptocypris taiaensis  Leptocypris taiaensis is a species of cyprinid fish endemic to Taia River, Little Scarcies River and Waanje River in Sierre Leone.
In what country is Taia River? [SEP] Taia naticoides  Taia naticoides is a species of a freshwater snail with an operculum and a gill. It is an aquatic gastropod mollusk in the family Viviparidae - commonly known as river snails.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]  Sjösa is the sole locality in the otherwise rural Svärta electoral ward that covers the area around Svärta Church a few miles to its northwest.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]  Sjösa is a locality situated in Nyköping Municipality, Södermanland County, Sweden with 483 inhabitants in 2010.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]  Ljósá (Lyså) is a village located on Eysturoy in the Faroe Islands, in Eiði Municipality. It is located 4 km south of Eiði and 4 km north of Svínáir. The village was founded around 1840.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]  Laxá í Kjós (Laxá in Kjós) is a river in the Kjósarhreppur municipality of southwestern Iceland. It flows about 20 km from the Stíflisdalsvatn, a small lake northwest of the Þingvallavatn, into the Laxárvogur, a cove on the Hvalfjörður fjord. It is known for its salmon fishing, particularly where the salmon must traverse up several waterfalls. Brown trout and sea trout are also caught in the river. The first salmon hatchery in Iceland, established in 1884 by Danish scientist Arthur Feddersen in the village of Reynivellir, was stocked with 31 spawning salmon captured in the Laxá í Kjós and its main tributary, the Bugða. Other tributaries include the smaller Svínadalsá, Hálsá, and Þverá, all of which flow into the upper section of the river below the Þórufoss.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]   Sajos is a Sámi cultural and administrative centre, located on the banks of the Juutuanjoki in Inari, Finland and is the largest convention and event venue in northern Lapland. It houses the Sámi Parliament of Finland, the Sámi Education Centre, the Sámi Archives, the State Provincial Office of Lapland, and a number of other associations. The building was designed by HALO Architects in Oulu and built by Senate Properties at a cost of 15 million euros. Construction was completed in January 2012 and the building inaugurated in April 2012. Dark wood on the outside, the three-storey building is covered in white pine. The design of the building was inspired by Sámi traditions, as stipulated in the competition program. The word Sajos comes from the Inari Sámi language and means 'the base' or 'the position of a place'; it was suggested by Matti Morottaja. The project was finally launched in 1996 with the establishment of the Sámi Parliament of Finland.
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP]
In what country is Sjösa? [SEP] List of urban areas in Sweden  There are 1,956 urban areas in Sweden as defined by Statistics Sweden on 31 December 2010. The official term used by Statistics Sweden is "locality" () instead of "urban area" and they are defined as having a minimum of 200 inhabitants. The total population of the localities was 8,016,000 in 2010, which made up 85% of the population of the whole country.  The urban areas made up 1.3% of the land area of the whole country. The average population density of the urban areas was 1,491 inhabitants per square kilometre (km).<ref name=scb />
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]  Morales de Campos is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 179 inhabitants.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]  Jhasmani Campos Dávalos (born 10 May 1988 in Santa Cruz de la Sierra) is a Bolivian football midfielder who plays for The Strongest. Campos is known for his long-distance shots, play-making, technique and high penalty kick conversion rate. In fact, he has never missed a penalty kick in his professional career to date.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]  Daniel Campos is a province in the north-western parts of the Bolivian Potosí Department. It is named after the poet Daniel Campos who originated from this area. The capital of the province is Llica.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]  Morales del Arcediano is a locality and minor local entity located in the municipality of Santiago Millas, in León province, Castile and León, Spain. As of 2020, it has a population of 51.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]  General Campos is a town in the center-east of the Province of Entre Ríos, Argentina.It is located about 35 km west of the Uruguay River and 220 km east from the provincial capital Paraná. The town was founded on June 8, 1913.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP] Morales de Campos  Morales de Campos is a municipality located in the province of Valladolid, Castile and León, Spain. According to the 2004 census (INE), the municipality has a population of 179 inhabitants.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP] Tierra de Campos  Tierra de Campos ("Land of Fields") is a large historical and natural region or greater comarca that straddles the provinces of León, Zamora, Valladolid and Palencia, in Castile and León, Spain. It is a vast, desolate plain with practically no relief, except for some wide undulations of the terrain.  Originally it was known as "Gothic Plains" ("Campi Gothici" or "Campi Gothorum"), as the area had been settled by Visigoths who fled from Aquitaine Gaul after its conquest by the Franks. It was first mentioned under this name in "Codex Vigilanus" "(Codex Albeldensis)", and described as extending ""from the river Douro, to the Christian Kingdom"".  Despite the strong identity of its inhabitants, this historical region has not been able to achieve the necessary legal recognition for its administrative development. Therefore, its municipalities have resorted to organizing themselves in a mancomunidad, the only legal formula that has allowed the region to manage its public municipal resources meaningfully. Palencia is widely considered to be the capital of the Tierra de Campos.
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP]
In what country is Morales de Campos? [SEP] Pablo Reimers Morales  Pablo Carlos Reimers Morales (b. July 13, 1946 - d. January 29, 2014) was an entrepreneur from the state of Zacatecas, Mexico.   He was born July 13, 1946 and raised in Zacatecas until 1961, when he left the state to attend high school at the Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education in Monterrey in 1961. He continued at the school for university, graduating in 1970 with a degree in business administration, with the aim of returning to his home state to be an entrepreneur. He chose to study at the Tec because of its educational model and the respect held in Zacatecas for the industry in Monterrey. One of his aims in high school was to meet the Tec founder Eugenio Garza Sada which he was able to do.  In the very early 1980s, Guillermo Jones Pereda, Juan De Santiago Ortega and Reimers founded Cerámica Santo Niño, today known as Cesantoni. The business began by making ceramic tiles but has since branched out into other ceramic products. The traditional means of making tile in Mexico requires two firings, but he decided to work to find a way to create the product in one firing, succeeding by the end of the 1980s. In 1998, the company worked to automate the process as much as possible, which included replacing many of the existing facilities. Much of the work is now done by robots. The plant works 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and is an important source of employment in the state, not only in the plants but also through its demand for raw materials from mines in the state of Zacatecas.  He has been quoted as saying that making more money is not the purpose of life, but rather go beyond what already exists. In 1985, Reimers was approached by his alma mater to organize and find resources to found a campus of Tec de Monterrey in Zacatecas. A short time later, he became an advisor to the new institution. Today, he is also the president of the Consejo de Enseñanza e Investigación Superior in Zacatecas.<ref name=trascender/>  Reimers was married to Gabriela Campos de Reimers and has three sons, Pablo Yaco Reimers Campos, Bernardo Reimers Campos and Hermann Reimers Campos, who work in the company.<ref name=elmundo/>  Mr. Reimers died in Zacatecas on January 29th 2014.<ref name=fallece/>
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]  The Dobra is a river in northern Spain flowing through the Autonomous Community of Asturias.
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]  in test operation ), running in parallel to the Kupa and Mrežnica, and finally flows into the Kupa north of Karlovac. The Dobra river is rich in ichthyofauna and ornithofauna. The Upper and Lower Dobra river are abundant with fish species: brown and rainbow trout, grayling, chub, barbel, bleak, carp, and tench, all in Upper Dobra, while the Lower Dobra is one of the rare Croatian rivers that has fish species such as sprout, pike, chub, pomfret, and barbel. North of Ogulin, near Gojak, the water of Dobra is harvested for the Gojak Hydroelectric Power Plant, a hydroelectric power plant built to utilize the rivers Dobra and Mrežnica. In 2010. the Lešće hydroelectric power plant started operating on the Lower Dobra section of the river. Two motorway bridges have been built over the Dobra: the Dobra Bridge (A1) and the Dobra Bridge (A6).
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]  The Dobra is a river located mostly in the Karlovac County in the Republic of Croatia. It is 104.2 km long and its basin covers an area of 1428 km2. Its name is the feminine form of the Croatian adjective meaning "good" but it is over simplistic folk etymology. The river name probably comes from the Celtic, dubron meaning ‘water’, Illyrian δυβρις (dybris) ‘deep’ or Old Slavonic dъbrь (dubri, debra) also ‘deep’ or ‘valley’. Dobra rises in Gorski Kotar near Skrad and Ravna Gora, where it flows first to the north and then turns to the east. It flows past Vrbovsko, to the southeast into the city of Ogulin, where it becomes an underground stream. It takes a sharp northward turn and rises back to the surface north of Ogulin. It continues to the northeast, past the Lešće spa and a hydroelectric plant (built
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]  Upper Dobra or Ogulin Dobra (Ogulinska Dobra in Croatian) is a typical torrential water with sudden and big changes in volume flow, while the average slope decline is 1.4%. A smaller river Kamačnik flows into Dobra near Vrbovsko. Until 1957 Dobra was disappearing in Đula's pit, a huge pit in the center of Ogulin. The Upper Dobra river was diverted into the system of the Hydroelectric power plant Gojak some 1.5 km upstream of Đula's pit, and by doing that an artificial lake Bukovnik was created. From the dam down to Đula's pit the river bed is filled with water that is there only once in a while, whenever there's heavy rainfall which causes the river to overflow the dam.
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]  The Dobra Bridge is located between Karlovac and Novigrad interchanges of the A1 motorway in Croatia, spanning Dobra River. It is 546 m long, and it comprises four traffic lanes and two emergency lanes. Construction work on the Dobra Bridge started in 1999 and was completed in 2001. Cost of the construction work was 57 million Croatian kuna (7.7 million euro). During the construction there was one major incident: on 1 July 2000, three girders plummeted from the main span piers into the river below. The incident did not cause any injury and damage was reported to be marginal.
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP] Dobra (Kupa)  The Dobra () is a river located mostly in the Karlovac County in the Republic of Croatia. It is long and its basin covers an area of . Its name is the feminine form of the Croatian adjective meaning "good" but it is over simplistic folk etymology. The river name probably comes from the Celtic , meaning ‘water’, Illyrian δυβρις () ‘deep’ or Old Slavonic dъbrь (, ) also ‘deep’ or ‘valley’.  Dobra rises in Gorski Kotar near Skrad and Ravna Gora, where it flows first to the north and then turns to the east. It flows past Vrbovsko, to the southeast into the city of Ogulin, where it becomes an underground stream. It takes a sharp northward turn and rises back to the surface north of Ogulin. It continues to the northeast, past the Lešće spa and a hydroelectric plant (built and in test operation ), running in parallel to the Kupa and Mrežnica, and finally flows into the Kupa north of Karlovac.  The Dobra river is rich in ichthyofauna and ornithofauna. The Upper and Lower Dobra river are abundant with fish species: brown and rainbow trout, grayling, chub, barbel, bleak, carp, and tench, all in Upper Dobra, while the Lower Dobra is one of the rare Croatian rivers that has fish species such as sprout, pike, chub, pomfret, and barbel.  North of Ogulin, near Gojak, the water of Dobra is harvested for the Gojak Hydroelectric Power Plant, a hydroelectric power plant built to utilize the rivers Dobra and Mrežnica. In 2010. the Lešće hydroelectric power plant started operating on the Lower Dobra section of the river.  Two motorway bridges have been built over the Dobra: the Dobra Bridge (A1) and the Dobra Bridge (A6).
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP] Dobra (Sella)  The Dobra is a river in northern Spain flowing through the Autonomous Community of Asturias.
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP]
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP] Dobra Bridge (A6)  Dobra Bridge is located between the Vrbovsko and Ravna Gora interchanges of the A6 motorway in Gorski Kotar, Croatia, spanning Dobra River. It is long and carries the motorway across five spans. The bridge consists of two parallel structures, both completed in 2003 by Primorje. The bridge is tolled within the A6 motorway ticket system and there are no separate toll plazas associated with use of the bridge. The bridge is located in a water protection area.
In what country is Dobra River? [SEP] Dobra Bridge (A1)  The Dobra Bridge is located between Karlovac and Novigrad interchanges of the A1 motorway in Croatia, spanning Dobra River. It is long, and it comprises four traffic lanes and two emergency lanes.  Construction work on the Dobra Bridge started in 1999 and was completed in 2001.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]  Karahasan is a village in the District of Ulus, Bartın Province, Turkey. As of 2010 it had a population of 189 people.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP] 🇺🇸 Asheville, North Carolina, United States ; 🇹🇷 Gebze, Kocaeli, Turkey
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]  Since 1993 Karahasan works as a dramatist for ARBOS – Company for Music and Theatre. His plays have been performed in Austria (Vienna, Krems, Hallein, Eisenstadt, Salzburg, Villach, Klagenfurt), Germany (Gera, Erfurt, Berlin, Leipzig), Bosnia-Herzegovina (Sarajevo), Ukraine (Odessa), Czech Republic (Prague, Hradec Králové, Brno), Kosovo (Pristina), Poland (Szczecin), Singapore (Singapore Arts Festival) and USA (Washington DC).
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]  Karahisar (former Karaasar) is a town in Tavas district of Denizli Province, Turkey. It is situated at 37.61667°N, 28.95°W along the Akçay creek, a tributary of Büyükmenderes River (historical Maeander). The distance to Tavas is 10 km. The population of Karahisar was 3403 as of 2012. The settlement was founded in 1530s by [Armenians]. The earlier name of the settlement Karaasar probably refers to Kara Fatma, the wife of the tribe. Gülfem one of the concubines of Suleyman I, the Ottoman sultan (also called the Magnificent) commissioned a mosque and a fountain in the settlement. In 1954 the settlement was declared a seat of township.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]  Kösehasan is a neighbourhood in the Karayazı District of Erzurum Province in Turkey.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP] Karahasanlı, Karaisalı  Karahasanlı is a village in the District of Karaisalı, Adana Province, Turkey.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP] Karaisalı  Karaisalı is a small town and a district in Adana Province of Turkey, administratively a part of the Metropolitan Municipality of Adana.  The area contains the reservoirs of Çatalan and Nergizlik. There is a wrestling tournament in late-April to early-May at Salbaş and a countryside festival in the last week of August at Kızıldağ.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP] Nuhlu, Karaisalı  Nuhlu is a village in the District of Karaisalı, Adana Province, Turkey.
In what country is Karahasanlı? [SEP]
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]  Ackerman—Dewsnap House is a historic house at 176 East Saddle River Road in Saddle River, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The house was built in 1837 and added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 29, 1986.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]  The Garret Augustus Ackerman House is a historic house at 212 East Saddle River Road in Saddle River, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The house was built in 1832 and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 29, 1986. It has apparently been demolished.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]  David Ackerman House is a historic house at 415 E. Saddle River in Ridgewood, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. It was built in 1750 and added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1983.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]  Ackerman House, is located in Saddle River, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The house was built in 1811 and was added to the National Register of Historic Places on January 10, 1983.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]  The Ackerman-Smith House is a historic house located in Saddle River, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States, built in 1760. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 29, 1986.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP] Ackerman-Dewsnap House  Ackerman—Dewsnap House is a historic house at 176 East Saddle River Road in Saddle River, Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The house was built in 1837 and added to the National Register of Historic Places on August 29, 1986.
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]
In what country is Ackerman-Dewsnap House? [SEP]
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]  Wilcza Jama is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sokółka, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]  Wilcza Jama is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Czarna Białostocka, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 7 km north of Czarna Białostocka and 28 km north of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]  Wilcza Wola is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Szydłowiec, within Szydłowiec County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 10 km north of Szydłowiec and 101 km south of Warsaw. The village has a population of 135.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]  Jamiołki-Piotrowięta is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sokoły, within Wysokie Mazowieckie County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 4 km west of Sokoły, 13 km north-east of Wysokie Mazowieckie, and 37 km west of the regional capital Białystok. The village has a population of 120.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]  Zawistowszczyzna is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Sokółka, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus. It lies approximately 3 km south-west of Sokółka and 36 km north-east of the regional capital Białystok. Since March 2007, the sołtys (village chief) is Dr. Mohamed Ali Al-Hameri, a gynaecologist born in Yemen who came to Poland in 1983 to study medicine.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP] Wilcza Jama, Białystok County  Wilcza Jama is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Czarna Białostocka, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately north of Czarna Białostocka and north of the regional capital Białystok.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP]
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP] Gmina Czarna Białostocka  Gmina Czarna Białostocka is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. Its seat is the town of Czarna Białostocka, which lies approximately north of the regional capital Białystok.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 11,692 (out of which the population of Czarna Białostocka amounts to 9,596, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 2,096).  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Knyszyń Forest Landscape Park.
In what country is Wilcza Jama, Sokółka County? [SEP] and the rural population is 36,269. Sokołów County is bordered by Ostrów Mazowiecka County and Wysokie Mazowieckie County to the north, Siemiatycze County to the east, Siedlce County to the south, and Węgrów County to the west. The county is subdivided into nine gminas (one urban, one urban-rural and seven rural). These are listed in the following table, in descending order of population. <br> Sokołów County Sokołów County () is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Masovian Voivodeship, east-central Poland. It came into being on January 1, 1999, as a result of the Polish local government
In what country is Givron? [SEP]  Givron is a commune in the Ardennes department in northern France.
In what country is Givron? [SEP] 🇻🇪 Venezuela
In what country is Givron? [SEP]  Assaf Gavron was born in the town of Arad in 1968 and grew up in Motza Illit near Jerusalem. Studied BA in Media and Communication in Goldsmiths' College in London, UK (1991–1994), and New Media in Vancouver, Canada (1997). In the 1990s he worked as a journalist for several Israeli newspapers. Between 2000–2004 he was a creative director for Israeli high-tech company Valis. He has been teaching creative writing in Israel (Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, the Sam Spiegel Film and Television School in Jerusalem, and Sapir Academic College in Sderot) and the United States (University of Nebraska Omaha and San Diego State University). Gavron has worked creating video games and as a rock musician; he has also translated American novels (Portnoy's Complaint among them) into Hebrew. He lives in Tel Aviv with his wife and two daughters.
In what country is Givron? [SEP]  Zavron (Russian and Tajik: Заврон}}) is a village in Sughd Region, northern Tajikistan. It is part of the jamoat Loiq Sherali in the city of Panjakent.
In what country is Givron? [SEP]  Gavron is internationally recognised for her environmental expertise. She was a key figure in the establishment of the London Climate Change Agency and the C40 – a worldwide climate change action group made up of the world's largest cities. In 2006, Business Week Magazine cited her, along with Ken Livingstone, as one of the twenty most important people in the world in the battle against greenhouse gas emissions. The magazine said that "[She aims] to turn London into a model of a sustainable future for all the world's great cities." In the same year she called for a new Clean Air Act – a Low Carbon Act to fight climate change. She envisioned low carbon zones being rolled out across the country in the same way that smokeless zones were in the 1950s. Gavron has criticised patio heaters, calling them "an indulgence too far". In an article for the Guardian's Comment is Free site she asked, "Why not wear a jumper and enjoy fresh air, not a cocktail of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and goodness knows what else."
In what country is Givron? [SEP] Givron  Givron () is a commune in the Ardennes department in northern France.
In what country is Givron? [SEP] The Little Vampire 3D  The Little Vampire 3D, also known as The Little Vampire, is a 2017 3D computer-animated vampire film directed by Richard Claus and Karsten Kiilerich and based on the children's book series of the same name by German writer Angela Sommer-Bodenburg.<ref name="Guardian"/>
In what country is Givron? [SEP] Arrondissement of Rethel  The arrondissement of Rethel is an arrondissement of France in the Ardennes department in the Grand Est region. It has 101 communes.
In what country is Givron? [SEP] The Gruffalo (film)  The Gruffalo is a 2009 short computer animated television film based on the 1999 picture book written by Julia Donaldson and illustrated by Axel Scheffler.  Directed by Jakob Schuh and Max Lang, the film was produced by Michael Rose and Martin Pope of Magic Light Pictures, London, and Orange Eyes Limited, in association with the award-winning Studio Soi in Ludwigsburg, Germany, who developed and created the film.  The cast includes Helena Bonham Carter, Rob Brydon, Robbie Coltrane, James Corden, John Hurt and Tom Wilkinson.  9.8 million people watched the UK premiere on BBC One, Friday 25 December 2009 and the film went on to receive nominations for both an Academy Award  and a BAFTA. It was screened in US theaters, distributed by Kidtoon Films. In December 2012, the film and its sequel "The Gruffalo's Child" premiered on television in the United States on Disney Junior, and in December 2017 – 2018, the film and its sequel premiered on television in the United States on Disney Junior the channel.
In what country is Givron? [SEP] When Heroes Fly  When Heroes Fly () is an Israeli drama television series that was first broadcast in Israel on Keshet 12 in May 2018. The series was created by Omri Givon and loosely based on the novel of the same name by Amir Gutfreund. It uses flashbacks to account for the differing time periods.  In October 2018, Netflix acquired international broadcasting rights to the series. Keshet has commissioned a second season. The series will also be adapted into an English version for the United States market titled "Echo 3" by Apple TV+.
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]  Humane Heritage Museum is located in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The museum displays many historical pieces from different ancient periods. Such pieces include, cutlery, outfits and weapons. Moreover, a great amount of manuscripts and books can be found.
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]  top of each other a tabletop with a see-through dome. The museum cited “explicit and repeated threats of violence” as a reason to remove these artworks. Protesters demonstrated outside the museum, and both People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) and the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA) issued statements condemning the inclusion of the above controversial works. ASPCA stated that they support artistic expression but oppose any use of animals which results in pain or distress to the animals. When the exhibition traveled to Bilbao in 2018, it included two of the three artworks in question.
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]  a museum and a vast research library, personal belongings (including his famous corncob pipe) and a short film that chronicles his life. People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) is based in Norfolk. The Hermitage Foundation Museum, located in an early 20th-century Tudor-style home on a 12 acre estate fronting the Lafayette River, features an eclectic collection of Asian and Western art, including Chinese bronze and ceramics, Persian rugs, and ivory carvings. Norfolk has a variety of performing groups with regular seasons. The Virginia Opera was founded in Norfolk in 1974. Its artistic director since its inception has been Peter Mark, who conducted his 100th opera production for the VOA in 2008. Though performances are staged statewide,
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]  Sulabh International Museum of Toilets in Delhi, which antedates this museum, opening in 1992. The National Poo Museum, which is ensconced within the Isle of Wight Zoo, features 20 examples of animal faeces, prepared by the Ecclestone George collective of artists and social entrepreneurs: Daniel Roberts, Nigel George, and Dave Badman. The specimens are desiccated and preserved in plexiglas. "The museum will feature relics such as freeze-dried poo, poop hanging from the ceiling and poop from various different species such as meerkats, foxes, cows, owls and even human babies." Poop is dried on a specially built machine. Viewers can illuminate each preserved exhibit at the touch of a button. It is
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]  In January 2014, Angel the albino dolphin calf was captured in the Taiji drive hunts in Japan and sent to the Taiji Whale Museum. A month later, Sarah Lucas and other dolphin advocates attempted to enter the museum to check on Angel's well-being, but they were refused entry. In May 2014, AFD filed legal action against the Taiji government in the Wakayama District Court. The Action for Angel lawsuit asserted that, as the owner and operator of the whale museum, the town of Taiji was illegally refusing entry to law-abiding people based on their appearance. AFD argued the conduct by the museum was contrary to Japan's Constitution, which states ‘there shall be no discrimination in political, economic or social relations because of race'.  In November 2015, Sarah Lucas took the stand in Wakayama District Court and gave evidence against the Taiji Whale Museum. In March 2016, the judges ruled in AFD's favour. Following the lawsuit animal welfare observers have now been granted access to the museum.
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP] Humane Heritage Museum  Humane Heritage Museum is located in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. The museum displays many historical pieces from different ancient periods. Such pieces include, cutlery, outfits and weapons. Moreover, a great amount of manuscripts and books can be found.
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Humane Heritage Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Arlington? [SEP]  Arlington is a census-designated place (CDP) in the towns of Arlington and Sunderland, Bennington County, Vermont, United States. The population was 1,213 at the 2010 census. In 1989, the Arlington Village Historic District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The district covers an area of 180 acre and includes 190 contributing buildings and sites in the village center. In addition to historical and architectural significance, the district is also noted for being the place where composer Carl Ruggles spent the later years of his life. The buildings in the district provide examples of Colonial Revival, Greek Revival, and Federal styles. The St. James Episcopal Church (1829–30), the second oldest Gothic Revival church in Vermont, is located in Arlington village. In the early 20th century, the village was an important industrial center with several mills and factories, many of which were washed away by flooding in 1927. The village also has unusual sections of marble sidewalks, laid using stone from nearby quarries.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP]  Arlington is an American alternative rock band formed in Southern California in 2016. The band consists of vocalist and guitarist Tyler Benko, bass guitarist and vocalist Channing Peake, and percussionist Grant Whitson. The band signed to Rise Records, released their debut full-length studio album, Walk Through Jackson County, on October 26, 2018.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP]  Arlington is part of the Snohomish Public Hospital District No. 3, which operates the Cascade Valley Hospital, a 48-bed general hospital. The hospital was established in 1909 and was the last independent hospital in Snohomish County at the time of its acquisition in 2016. The city is also served by community clinics operated by Cascade Valley (and Skagit Regional Health) as well as The Everett Clinic and the Community Health Center of Snohomish County.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP]  Arlington was a manor, and is a village and civil parish in the North Devon district of Devon in England. The parish includes the villages of Arlington and Arlington Beccott. The population of the parish is 98 (2001 census). Arlington Court, long owned by the Chichester family, lords of the manor since the 14th century, is now owned by the National Trust and home to the Trust's collection of over 50 historic horse-drawn carriages. Victoria Cross holder Sir Mark Walker lived in Arlington, dying there in 1902.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP]  Arlington is a home rule-class city in Carlisle County, Kentucky, in the United States. The population was 324 at the 2010 census, a drop from 395 in 2000. It was formally incorporated by the state assembly in 1876.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP] Arlington County, Virginia  Arlington County is a county in the Commonwealth of Virginia. The county is situated in Northern Virginia on the southwestern bank of the Potomac River directly across from the District of Columbia, of which it was once a part. The county is coextensive with the U.S. Census Bureau's census-designated place of Arlington. Arlington County is considered to be the second-largest "principal city" of the Washington metropolitan area, although Arlington County does not have the legal designation of independent city or incorporated town under Virginia state law.  In 2020, the county's population was estimated at 238,643, making Arlington the sixth-largest county in Virginia by population and the largest unincorporated community in the United States; if it were incorporated as a city, Arlington would be the third most populous city in the state. With a land area of , Arlington is the geographically smallest self-governing county in the U.S., and by reason of state law regarding population density, it has no incorporated towns within its borders. It is the 5th highest-income county in the U.S. by median family income, and is the 11th most densely populated county in the United States. Arlington is home to the Pentagon (headquarters of the U.S. Department of Defense), the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), Reagan National Airport, and Arlington National Cemetery. In academia, the county contains Marymount University, the satellite campuses and research programs of George Mason University's Antonin Scalia Law School, Schar School of Policy and Government, and the Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter School for Peace and Conflict Resolution, as well as graduate programs, research, and non-traditional student education centers of the University of Virginia and Virginia Tech. Arlington is also the future home of the co-headquarters of the Big Tech company Amazon, and the global headquarters of aerospace manufacturing and defense industry giants Boeing and Raytheon Technologies.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP] Arlington, Texas  Arlington is a city in the U.S. state of Texas, located in Tarrant County. It forms part of the Mid-Cities region of the Dallas–Fort Worth–Arlington metropolitan statistical area, and is a principal city of the metropolis and region. The city had a population of 394,266 in 2020, and the largest city in the state that is not a county seat.  Arlington is home to the University of Texas at Arlington, a major urban research university, the Arlington Assembly plant used by General Motors, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission Region IV, Texas Health Resources, Mensa International, and D. R. Horton. Additionally, Arlington hosts the Texas Rangers at Globe Life Field, the Dallas Cowboys at AT&T Stadium, the Arlington Renegades at Choctaw Stadium, the Dallas Wings at College Park Center, the International Bowling Campus (which houses the United States Bowling Congress, International Bowling Museum and the International Bowling Hall of Fame), and the theme parks Six Flags Over Texas (the original Six Flags) and Hurricane Harbor.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP] Arlington Country Day School  Arlington Country Day School (ACDS) was a private school in Jacksonville, Florida. A non-sectarian coeducational school, it offered a K-12 education and enrolled over 400 students a year. It was notable for its successful boys' basketball program. On January 26, 2018, the school closed its doors without warning and informed parents Saturday January 27, 2018, that it shut down.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP] Arlington, Massachusetts  Arlington is a town in Middlesex County, Massachusetts. The town is six miles (10 km) northwest of Boston, and its population was 46,308 at the 2020 census.
In what country is Arlington? [SEP] Arlington Heights, Illinois  Arlington Heights is a municipality in Cook County with a small portion in Lake County in the U.S. state of Illinois. A suburb of Chicago, it lies about northwest of the city's downtown. Per the 2020 Census, the population was 77,676. Per the 2010 Census, it is the most populous community in the United States that is incorporated as a "village", and is the 13th most populous municipality in Illinois, although it is not far ahead of its nearby Illinois neighboring villages of Schaumburg and adjacent Palatine.  Arlington Heights is known for the former Arlington Park Race Track, home of the Arlington Million, a Breeders' Cup qualifying event; it also hosted the Breeders' Cup World Thoroughbred Championships in 2002. The village is also home to the Arlington Heights Memorial Library, which has one of the largest collections of books in the state.
In what country is Adams? [SEP]  John Adams, the second president of the United States of America, erected a monument to his memory in the old church yard at Quincy with the following inscription: "In memory of Henry Adams who took his flight from the Dragon persecution in Devonshire, England and alighted with eight sons, near Mount Wollaston. One of the sons returned to England, and after taking time to explore the country, four removed to Medfield and the neighboring towns; two to Chelmsford. One only, Joseph, who lies here at his left hand, remained here, who was an original proprietor in the township of Braintree, incorporated in 1639. This stone and several others
In what country is Adams? [SEP]  Adams was born in Manila in the Philippines. His family moved to the United States when he was 12, and he grew up in Long Prairie, Minnesota. He studied liberal arts at the University of Minnesota. Adams became a naturalized U.S. citizen in 1968 and was living in Los Angeles, California, in 1971 when he met Anthony Corbett "Tony" Sullivan, an Australian citizen who was visiting the U.S. on a tourist visa. They were one of six gay couples granted marriage licenses by County Clerk Clela Rorex in Boulder, Colorado on April 21, 1975. They exchanged vows in a religious ceremony as well. To publicize their lawsuit, they appeared on the Phil Donahue Show where, according to their
In what country is Adams? [SEP]  Adams began practicing international law in Washington, D.C., and moved to Paris before establishing residence in Geneva in 1986. Currently, Adams is partner at Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, an international law firm based in the United States. He leads the firm's international arbitration practice, with a focus on high-value disputes, and serves as head of the firm's Geneva office. His practice includes major infrastructure and construction projects, joint venture agreements, intellectual property, insurance, energy, manufacturing, telecommunications and transportation industries. He occasionally serves on international arbitration panels, and appears frequently on various news media outlets, commenting on U.S. political issues. Notable publications include English Supreme Court Upholds Party Autonomy in International Arbitration, which examined a 2011 British
In what country is Adams? [SEP]  Adams was born in Ellesmere Port, United Kingdom and educated at the University of Sheffield and McGill University. He served as director of the subarctic research laboratory in Schefferville, Quebec, and was a member of the Geography department and coordinator of Northern Studies at Trent University in Peterborough, where he was later Emeritus Professor. Adams also served as Vice President – Academic while at Trent. Adams has authored many books and articles, and co-edited the regional history Peterborough and the Kawarthas. In 1981, he was named as Peterborough's Citizen of the Year.
In what country is Adams? [SEP]  Adams National Historical Park, formerly Adams National Historic Site, in Quincy, Massachusetts, preserves the home of United States presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams, of U.S. envoy to Great Britain Charles Francis Adams, and of writers and historians Henry Adams and Brooks Adams. The national historical park's eleven buildings tell the story of five generations of the Adams family (from 1720 to 1927) including presidents, first ladies, envoys, historians, writers, and family members who supported and contributed to their success. In addition to Peacefield, home to four generations of the Adams family, the park's main historic features include the John Adams Birthplace (October 30, 1735), the nearby John Quincy Adams Birthplace
In what country is Adams? [SEP] Adam  Adam is the name given in Genesis 1-5 to the first human. Beyond its use as the name of the first man, "adam" is also used in the Bible as a pronoun, individually as "a human" and in a collective sense as "mankind". tells of God's creation of the world and its creatures, including "adam", meaning humankind; in God forms "Adam", this time meaning a single male human, out of "the dust of the ground", places him in the Garden of Eden, and forms a woman, Eve, as his helpmate; in Adam and Eve eat the fruit of the tree of knowledge and God condemns Adam to labour on the earth for his food and to return to it on his death; deals with the birth of Adam's sons, and lists his descendants from Seth to Noah.  The Genesis creation myth was adopted by both Christianity and Islam, and the name of Adam accordingly appears in the Christian scriptures and in the Quran. He also features in subsequent folkloric and mystical elaborations in later Judaism, Christianity, and gnosticism.
In what country is Adams? [SEP] Adam (given name)  Adam is a common masculine given name in the English language, of Hebrew origin.  According to the Bible, the personal name "Adam" derives from the noun "adamah" meaning "the ground" or "earth". But it is likely folk etymology. Its Biblical and Quranic uses have ensured that it is also a common name in all countries which draw on these traditions. It is particularly common in Christian and Muslim majority countries. In most languages its spelling is the same, although the pronunciation varies somewhat. Adán and Adão are the Spanish and Portuguese forms of this name, respectively.  Adam is also a surname in many countries, although it is not as common in English as its derivative Adams (sometimes spelled Addams). In other languages there are similar surnames derived from Adam, such as Adamo, Adamov, Adamowicz, Adamski etc.  In Arabic, Adam () means "made from earth's mud." also means "someone dark-colored like earth's soil".
In what country is Adams? [SEP]
In what country is Adams? [SEP] Kay Adams (singer)  Kay Adams (born Princetta Kay Adams; April 9, 1941) is an American country singer.
In what country is Adams? [SEP] North Adams Country Club  North Adams Country Club is a semi-private golf course located in Clarksburg, Massachusetts. The club hosts one of the oldest Invitational Singles Tournaments in New England.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] 2013: Matriarken
In what country is Pira? [SEP]  Pira is a locality in Victoria, Australia, located approximately 23 km from Swan Hill. Pira Post Office opened on 14 July 1924 and closed in 1975. In December 2017 Amanda Maher, a farmer from Pira and member of the Australian Alpaca Association, was awarded a Victorian Young Farmer's Scholarship.
In what country is Pira? [SEP]  Featured on
In what country is Pira? [SEP]  is the People: of Thailand and Other Countries, an ebook of an anthology of Pira Sudham's short stories, was published by Proglen, Bangkok, in 2014, for amazon.com, apple, dco thai and other ebook retailers. The collection includes a little monk's lament, a confession of a transvestite, a reflection of an Englishman's wife, tales of surviving in Bangkok by a little guttersnipe and a street food seller, a revelation of a prostitute, a recollection of a British prisoner of war, working on the Death Railway, a tale of a young Thai girl in search of love in Germany, a narrative on life of a child prostitute and an Italian's Asian adventure.
In what country is Pira? [SEP]  Pira Sudham (Pira Canning Sudham) has lived over twenty years in New Zealand, Australia, Hong Kong and in the UK, writing short stories, poems, and his first novel, Monsoon Country. Now he lives in his home village in Isan, Northeastern Thailand.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] Pira, Benin  Pira is a town and arrondissement in the Collines department of Benin. It is an administrative division under the jurisdiction of the commune of Bantè. According to the population census conducted by the Institut National de la Statistique Benin on February 15, 2002, the arrondissement had a total population of 12,337.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] Pira Sudham  Pira Sudham (Pira Canning Sudham) (, ), is an author of Thai descent. He was born in a village in Isan in northeastern Thailand. At age fourteen, he left Isan for Bangkok to become a servant to Buddhist monks in a monastery where he attended secondary school. Later, he entered Triam Udom High School, before gaining a place at Faculty of Arts, Chulalongkorn University. He won a New Zealand government scholarship to read English Literature at Auckland University and then Victoria University of Wellington, where his first story was published by New Zealand's leading literary quarterly Landfall. Since then, Pira Sudham has been writing short stories, poems, and novels in English. He has not produced any literary works in the Thai language.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] Pira, Tarragona  Pira, Tarragona is a village in the province of Tarragona and autonomous community of Catalonia, Spain.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] Provisional Irish Republican Army  The Irish Republican Army (IRA; ), also known as the Provisional Irish Republican Army, and informally as the Provos, was an Irish republican paramilitary organisation that sought to end British rule in Northern Ireland, facilitate Irish reunification and bring about an independent, socialist republic encompassing all of Ireland. It was the most active republican paramilitary group during the Troubles. It saw itself as the army of the all-island Irish Republic and as the sole legitimate successor to the original IRA from the Irish War of Independence. It was designated a terrorist organisation in the United Kingdom and an unlawful organisation in the Republic of Ireland, both of whose authority it rejected.  The Provisional IRA emerged in December 1969, due to a split within the previous incarnation of the IRA and the broader Irish republican movement. It was initially the minority faction in the split compared to the Official IRA, but became the dominant faction by 1972. The Troubles had begun shortly before when a largely Catholic, nonviolent civil rights campaign was met with violence from both Ulster loyalists and the Royal Ulster Constabulary (RUC), culminating in the August 1969 riots and deployment of British soldiers. The IRA initially focused on defence of Catholic areas, but it began an offensive campaign in 1970 that was aided by weapons supplied by Irish American sympathisers and Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. It used guerrilla tactics against the British Army and RUC in both rural and urban areas, and carried out a bombing campaign in Northern Ireland and England against military, political and economic targets, and British military targets in Europe.   The Provisional IRA declared a final ceasefire in July 1997, after which its political wing Sinn Féin was admitted into multi-party peace talks on the future of Northern Ireland. These resulted in the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, and in 2005 the IRA formally ended its armed campaign and decommissioned its weapons under the supervision of the Independent International Commission on Decommissioning. Several splinter groups have been formed as a result of splits within the IRA, including the Continuity IRA and the Real IRA, both of which are still active in the dissident Irish republican campaign. The IRA's armed campaign, primarily in Northern Ireland but also in England and mainland Europe, killed over 1,700 people, including roughly 1,000 members of the British security forces, and 500–644 civilians. In addition 275–300 members of the IRA were killed during the conflict.
In what country is Pira? [SEP] Pira District  Pira District is one of twelve districts of the province Huaraz in Peru.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]  The Tōhoku History Museum (東北歴史博物館) is a museum in Tagajō, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. It houses finds from excavations at the site of Tagajō as well as from other archaeological sites in the Tōhoku region of northern Japan. These include a Jōmon period jade axe excavated in Kizukuri, Aomori Prefecture, and designated an Important Cultural Property; and another Jōmon jade, excavated in Niisato, Iwate Prefecture, also designated an Important Cultural Property.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]  The National Museum of Japanese History (国立歴史民俗博物館), commonly known in Japanese as Rekihaku, is a history museum in Sakura, Chiba, Japan. The museum was founded in 1981 as an inter-university research consortium, and opened in 1983. The collections of museum focus on the history, archaeology, and folk culture of Japan.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]  Kōchi Prefectural Museum of History (高知県立歴史民俗資料館) opened in Nankoku, Kōchi Prefecture, Japan, in 1991. Located on the site of Okō Castle and the Chōsokabe clan residence, the collection relates to the archaeology, history, and folk customs of the area.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]  The Tōhoku History Museum (東北歴史博物館), on the grounds of the Taga Castle, has finds from the excavations as well as from other sites in Tōhoku.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP] Aoba Castle Museum ; Fukushima Art Museum ; The Miyagi Museum of Art ; Ōsaki City Matsuyama Furusato History Museum ; Rias Ark Museum of Art ; Rikuzentakata City Museum ; Sendai City Museum ; Kami Town Serisawa Chōsuke Tōhoku Ceramic Culture Museum ; Tōhoku Gakuin University Museum ; Tōhoku History Museum ; Tōhoku Fukushi University Serizawa Keisuke Art and Craft Museum ; Zuigan-ji Treasure Hall Seiryūden
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP] Sendai  In the summer, the Sendai Tanabata Festival, the largest Tanabata festival in Japan, is held. In winter, the trees are decorated with thousands of lights for the , lasting through most of December.  On 11 March 2011, coastal areas of the city suffered catastrophic damage from a magnitude 9.0 offshore earthquake, which triggered a destructive tsunami.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP] Tohoku University Museum  The is a university museum affiliated with Tohoku University in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture, Japan. From the collection of over 2,000,000 items, including rocks, minerals, fossils, archaeological materials, and maps, approximately 1,000 are on display at any one time.
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Tōhoku History Museum? [SEP] Taga Castle
In what country is Neal? [SEP]  Rajion Lashad Neal (born March 28, 1992) is an American football running back who is currently a free agent. He played college football at Tennessee. Neal was signed by the Green Bay Packers as an undrafted free agent in 2014, and has also been a member of the Miami Dolphins, Oakland Raiders, Pittsburgh Steelers, and Cleveland Browns of the National Football League. Neal has also been a member of the Hamilton Tiger-Cats of the Canadian Football League, as well as the Memphis Express of the Alliance of American Football.
In what country is Neal? [SEP]  Neal, his wife and sons stayed in Munich, but he traveled extensively to sell and exhibit his works, as he maintained his U.S. citizenship, and divided his time between the two countries with his address of Auen Strasse 74 & later Frauen Strasse 7, in Munich, Bavaria, as well as staying in Albert Bierstadt's house at 1111 Carnegie Hall, New York City. He was a member of the National Academy of Design in New York, as well as the Boston Art Club, 1886, and the Mark Hopkins Institute of Art. In the publication, Modern Art and Artists, in 1888, art critic Wilfrid Meynell comments on Neal's works. Neal continued to paint portraits when in the States, including the daughters of Ogden Mills, Beatrice Mills and Gladys Mills Phipps.
In what country is Neal? [SEP]  Neal is an unincorporated community in Pike County, in the U.S. state of Georgia.
In what country is Neal? [SEP]  Brian Neal (born 14 May 1948) is a former Australian rules footballer who played with North Melbourne in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
In what country is Neal? [SEP]  Neal graduated from Fayetteville Christian School in Fayetteville in Washington County. He holds a Bachelor of Science in Marketing Management from the University of Arkansas at Fayetteville. Since 1997, he has operated Neal's Café in a landmark pink building in Springdale, a company launched in 1944 by his great-grandparents, Toy and Bertha Neal and later run by his father, Don Neal. He is married to Cindy Neal. He has two sons, Reagan and Bodie Neal and one daughter, London Neal. He is a member of Cross Church, a Southern Baptist congregation in Springdale.
In what country is Neal? [SEP] Neal McCoy  Hubert Neal McGaughey Jr. (born July 30, 1958), known professionally as Neal McCoy, is an American country music singer. He has released 10 studio albums on various labels, and has released 34 singles to country radio. Although he first charted on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs chart in 1988, he did not reach the top 40 for the first time until 1992's "Where Forever Begins", which peaked at number 40. McCoy broke through two years later with the back-to-back number one singles "No Doubt About It" and "Wink" from his platinum-certified album "No Doubt About It". Although he has not topped the country charts since, his commercial success continued into the mid to late 1990s with two more platinum albums and a gold album, as well as six more top 10 hits. A ninth top 10 hit, the number 10 "Billy's Got His Beer Goggles On", came in 2005 from his self-released "That's Life".
In what country is Neal? [SEP] Jamie O'Neal  Jamie O'Neal (born 3 June 1968) is an Australian country singer and songwriter.  In 2000, O'Neal released her first studio album, "Shiver". The album included the back-to-back number one singles "There Is No Arizona" and "When I Think About Angels". Two other singles were released: the title track, which reached No. 21 on the country charts, and "Frantic", which reached No. 41 in 2002. She released her second studio album, "Brave", in 2005. Her third studio album, "Eternal", was released on 27 May 2014.
In what country is Neal? [SEP] Neil Young  Neil Percival Young  (born November 12, 1945) is a Canadian-American singer and songwriter. After embarking on a music career in Winnipeg in the 1960s, Young moved to Los Angeles, joining Buffalo Springfield with Stephen Stills, Richie Furay and others. Since the beginning of his solo career with his backing band Crazy Horse, he has released many critically acclaimed and important albums, such as "Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere", "After the Gold Rush", "Harvest", "On the Beach" and "Rust Never Sleeps". He was a part-time member of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young.  His guitar work, deeply personal lyrics and signature high tenor singing voice define his long career. Young also plays piano and harmonica on many albums, which frequently combine folk, rock, country and other musical genres. His often distorted electric guitar playing, especially with Crazy Horse, earned him the nickname "Godfather of Grunge" and led to his 1995 album "Mirror Ball" with Pearl Jam. More recently he has been backed by Promise of the Real.   Young directed (or co-directed) films using the pseudonym "Bernard Shakey", including "Journey Through the Past" (1973), "Rust Never Sleeps" (1979), "Human Highway" (1982), "Greendale" (2003), "CSNY/Déjà Vu" (2008), and "Harvest Time" (2022). He also contributed to the soundtracks of the films "Philadelphia" (1993) and "Dead Man" (1995).  Young has received several Grammy and Juno Awards. The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame inducted him twice: in 1995 as a solo artist and in 1997 as a member of Buffalo Springfield. In 2000, "Rolling Stone" named Young No. 34 on their list of the 100 greatest musical artists. According to Acclaimed Music, he is the seventh most celebrated artist in popular music history. 21 of his albums and singles have been certified Gold and Platinum in U.S. by RIAA certification. Young was awarded the Order of Manitoba in 2006<ref name="OM" /> and was made an Officer of the Order of Canada in 2009.<ref name="gg.ca" />
In what country is Neal? [SEP] The City Put the Country Back in Me  "The City Put the Country Back in Me" is a song written by Mike Geiger, Woody Mullis and Michael Huffman, and recorded by American country music artist Neal McCoy. It was released in July 1994 as the third single from his album "No Doubt About It". The song reached number 5 on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart and number 11 on the "RPM" Country Tracks chart in Canada.
In what country is Neal? [SEP] Neal Coty  Neal Lee Angleberger (born May 13, 1964), known professionally as Neal Coty, is an American country music singer and songwriter. He has released two albums for Mercury Records Nashville, and has written several singles for other artists.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]  The Korean Magazine Museum is a museum in the district of Yeouido in Seoul, South Korea. It was established on March 21, 2002 to promote Korean magazines in the competitive global arena. The museum consists of three underground floors and seven upperground floors for a total floor space of 1703 pyeong (app. 5,623 m²). Admission is free with opening hours from Monday to Saturday (10:00-18:00). The museum is closed on Sundays and national holidays.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP] Magazine exhibition space (exhibit of modern magazines) ; Magazine museum (exhibit of rare magazines) ; Internet zone ; Reading space ; Storage
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]  The National Museum of Korea is the flagship museum of Korean history and art in South Korea and is the cultural organization that represents Korea. Since its establishment in 1945, the museum has been committed to various studies and research activities in the fields of archaeology, history, and art, continuously developing a variety of exhibitions and education programs. In 2012, it was reported that since its relocation to Yongsan District in 2005, the museum had attracted an attendance of 20 million visitors, or over 3 million annually which makes it one of the most visited museums in the world and Asia and the most visited in South Korea. A poll of nearly 2,000 foreign visitors, conducted by the Seoul Metropolitan Government in November 2011, stated that visiting the museum is one of their favorite activities in Seoul. It is one of the largest museums in Asia. On June 24, 2021, the National Museum of Korea opened a new branch inside Incheon International Airport. Located in the boarding area of the airport in front of Gate No.22, the branch was opened in celebration of the museum's 20th anniversary.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]  and the Coreana Museum of Art in Seoul as well as venues in Poznan, Poland. ; 2006 "Pyongyang Report" at Paju Book City, Publication Culture Center, Heyri Art Village and Press Center, Seoul, S. Korea. ; 2005 "DMZ-2005" at Paju Book City, Publication Culture Center, Heyri Art Village and Press Center, Seoul, S. Korea. ; 2003 - 2001, "Translated Acts" - Performance and Body Art from China, Korea, Japan, Taiwan and their Diasporas, a controversial exhibition initially presented at the Haus der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin (2001) and then traveled to the Queens Museum of Art, New York (2001-2002) and the Museo de Carrillo Gil in Mexico City (2002-2003). ; 1998 "Fragmented Histories", (Asia-Pacific
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]  The National Museum of Korean Contemporary History (대한민국역사박물관), which opened on December 26, 2012, is dedicated to researching, preserving, and exhibiting the modern and contemporary history of the Republic of Korea. The museum features four permanent exhibition halls which cover the period from the late 19th century to the present, with the themes of "Prelude to the Republic of Korea", "Foundation of the Republic of Korea", "Development of the Republic of Korea", and "Modernization and Korea's Vision of Future". The museum includes a children’s museum and a special exhibition gallery which enables visitors to explore modern and contemporary Korean history through various themes and topics. It also offers education programs and cultural events. The museum is located near Gyeongbok Palace in what was formerly the north building for USAID. Admission is free.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP] Korean Magazine Museum  The Korean Magazine Museum is a museum in the district of Yeouido in Seoul, South Korea. It was established on March 21, 2002, to promote Korean magazines in the competitive global arena. The museum consists of three underground floors and seven upperground floors for a total floor space of 1703 "pyeong" (app. 5,623 m). Admission is free with opening hours from Monday to Saturday (10:00-18:00). The museum is closed on Sundays and national holidays.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP] Vogue (magazine)  Vogue is an American monthly fashion and lifestyle magazine that covers many topics, including haute couture fashion, beauty, culture, living, and runway. Based at One World Trade Center in the Financial District of Lower Manhattan, "Vogue" began in 1892 as a weekly newspaper before becoming a monthly magazine years later. Since its founding, "Vogue" has featured numerous actors, musicians, models, athletes, and other prominent celebrities. The largest issue published by "Vogue" magazine was the September 2012 edition, containing 900 pages.  The British "Vogue", launched in 1916, was the first international edition, while the Italian version "Vogue Italia" has been called the top fashion magazine in the world. As of today, there are 26 international editions.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP] National Folk Museum of Korea  National Folk Museum of Korea is a national museum of South Korea, located within the grounds of the Gyeongbokgung Palace in Jongno-gu, Seoul. It uses replicas of historical objects to illustrate the history of traditional life of the Korean people.
In what country is Korean Magazine Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP]  Francheville Aerodrome was a temporary World War I airfield in France. It was located 3.0 mi north of Coulommiers, in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP]  the Vesle Sector to perform reconnaissance prior to the St. Mihiel Offensive: the 1st and 12th squadrons left on 22 July, followed by HQ on 30 July, while 88th had transferred to III Corps Observation Group on 25 July, staying at Francheville until 4 August. French BR 237 stayed 30 July - 11 August, working for the French 6th Army then, as the battle front was fast moving away from the area, the airfield was abandoned and soon returned to agricultural use. Today it is a series of cultivated fields located to the northwest of Coulommiers, at the crossroad of D 44 and a small road near the farm called "Les Fermiers", as shown on the photograph, with no indication of this short aviation activity.
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP] 1st Aero Squadron 6–22 July 1918 ; 12th Aero Squadron 6–22 July 1918 ; 88th Aero Squadron 7–4 August 1918 The airfield was built in June 1918 in some haste as the German armies where were pushing through Allied forces towards Paris, on the River Marne. One French escadrille (SPA 124) was stationed as early as June 4, giving way to the I Corps Observation Group, with headquarter and three squadrons, providing aerial reconnaissance and artillery observation over the lines northwest of Château-Thierry: It was a very active sector with many enemy aircraft. The aircraft flew reconnaissance from 3am to 8pm and nearly every sortie meant combat with the enemy. At the end of July, as the German forces began their retreat, the group again moved
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP] Ourches Aerodrome, France, 21 April 1918 ; Saints Aerodrome, France, 29 June 1918 ; Francheville Aerodrome, 6 July 1918 ; Ferme de Moras Aerodrome (near La Ferté-sous-Jouarre) France, 30 July 1918 ; May-en-Multien Aerodrome, France, 5 August 1918 Coincy Aerodrome, France, 10 August 1918 ; Chailly-en-Brie Aerodrome, France, 12 August 1918 ; Croix de Metz Aerodrome (Toul), France, 22 August 1918 ; Remicourt Aerodrome, France, 20 September 1918 ; Julvecourt Aerodrome, France, 5 November 1918 – 15 April 1919
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP]  The airfield was one of the many built to cope with the German offensive towards the river Marne which started in late May 1918. The first units to fly from the airfield were French "escadrilles", flying missions for the resisting French troops. The newly operational American I Corps Observation Group arrived on 29 June with 1st Aero Squadron and 12th Aero Squadron, while 88th Aero Squadron stayed at Ourches, joining the Group later at Francheville. The stay was brief as the whole Group already moved and met together at Francheville Aerodrome, north of Coulommiers, on 6 July. The 1st Pursuit Group moved into Saints shortly afterwards (9 July) with its four pursuit (fighter) squadrons and began flying offensive combat patrols over the Aisne-Marne Sector. From Saints, the group engaged in combat at the
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP] Francheville Aerodrome  Francheville Aerodrome was a temporary World War I airfield in France. It was located north of Coulommiers, in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP] Saints Aerodrome  Saints Aerodrome, was a temporary World War I airfield in France. It was located North of Saints, in the Île-de-France region in north-central France.
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP] Ourches Aerodrome  Ourches Aerodrome, was a temporary World War I airfield in France. It was West-Northwest of the commune of Ourches-sur-Meuse, in the Meuse department in Lorraine in north-eastern France.
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP]
In what country is Francheville Aerodrome? [SEP]
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]  Kijevac is a village in the municipality of Surdulica, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 183 people.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]  Kijevo is a village in Trnovo municipality, Istočno Sarajevo, Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Kijevo is south of Sarajevo on the road M-18 Sarajevo-Trnovo-Foča-Trebinje. The closest airport is Sarajevo International Airport, located 9.7 km north west of Kijevo. The Željeznica river is one of the Kijevo's chief geographic features. It flows through the town and municipality from south through the center of Trnovo, Kijevo and Istočno (East) Sarajevo to west part of Sarajevo eventually meets up with the Bosna river.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]  Kijevo (Кијево) is an urban neighborhood of Belgrade, the capital of Serbia. It is located in Belgrade's municipality of Rakovica.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]  Kijevo was a separate village until 1959 when it was incorporated into Kneževac, which in turn was incorporated into Belgrade in 1972. Kijevo is today organized as "local community", a sub-municipal administrative unit. In 2010 the western section of the local community was detached and became part of the newly formed local community Petlovo Brdo.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]  Kijevac is a village in the municipality of Babušnica, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 54 people.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP] Kijevac (Surdulica)  Kijevac is a village in the municipality of Surdulica, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 183 people.
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP]
In what country is Kijevac? [SEP] Stance (Vranje)  Stance is a village in the municipality of Vranje, Serbia. According to the 2002 census, the village has a population of 113 people.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]  Iron River is an unincorporated, census-designated place located in the town of Iron River, Bayfield County, Wisconsin, United States. U.S. Highway 2 serves as a main route in the community. Other routes include County Highways A and H. Iron River is 27 mi west of the city of Ashland and 37 mi east of the city of Superior. Iron River has a post office with ZIP code 54847. As of the 2010 census, its population was 761. Iron River is the home of the Bayfield County Fair. The Fair takes place annually in August.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]  Iron River is a town in Bayfield County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 1,123 at the 2010 census. The census-designated place of Iron River is located in the town. The unincorporated community of Topside is also located in the town.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]  According to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of 90.4 sqkm, of which 81.6 sqkm is land and 8.8 sqkm, or 9.73%, is water. Iron River is located 27 mi west of the city of Ashland and 37 mi east of the city of Superior.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]  U.S. Highway 2 serves as a main route in the community. Other routes include County Highways A and H.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]  At the 2000 census, there were 1,059 people, 485 households and 311 families residing in the town. The population density was 33.7 /sqmi. There were 973 housing units at an average density of 31.0 /sqmi. The racial make-up was 96.79% White, 1.32% Native American, 0.57% Asian, and 1.32% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.38% of the population. There were 485 households, of which 23.1% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 51.3% were married couples living together, 6.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 35.7% were non-families. 30.9% of all households were made up of individuals, and 16.5% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP] Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin  Iron River is an unincorporated, census-designated place located in the town of Iron River, Bayfield County, Wisconsin, United States.  U.S. Highway 2 serves as a main route in the community. Other routes include County Highways A and H.  Iron River is west of the city of Ashland and east of the city of Superior.  Iron River has a post office with ZIP code 54847.  As of the 2010 census, its population was 761.  Iron River is the home of the Bayfield County Fair. The Fair takes place annually in August.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP] Iron River  Iron River may refer to:
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP] Iron River, Wisconsin  Iron River is a town in Bayfield County, Wisconsin, United States. The population was 1,123 at the 2010 census. The census-designated place of Iron River is located in the town. The unincorporated community of Topside is also located in the town.
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]
In what country is Iron River (CDP), Wisconsin? [SEP]
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP]  Lätäseno Leahttáseatnu (Northern Sami), is a river of Finland in Finnish Lapland. It is a tributary of Muonio River, which itself is a tributary of Torne River. The river is a popular fishing destination. It flows through the Lätäseno-Hietajoki wetland protection area. It is also part of the Poroeno-Lätäseno canoe route (which begins in the Käsivarsi Wilderness Area), and offers lean-to shelter and wilderness hut accommodation.
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] 🇫🇷 Lagnes, France
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] 🇵🇱 Białogard, Poland, since 2004 ; 🇵🇱 Koszalin, Poland, since 2004 ; 🇱🇹 Alytus, Lithuania, since 2004 ; 🇮🇹 Savelli, Italy ; 🇩🇪 Teterow, Germany
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP]  brand name La Martona, which having been established in 1889, was the first dairy company of Argentina. La Martona had ceased operations in 1978, after it was declared bankruptcy due to its debts. Nevertheless, Mastellone Hnos. did not market La Martona products until 2019, when it released an economic line of milk. The company pioneered the sale of lactose-free milk in Argentina in 1984, became the market leader in the sale of yogurt (whose local consumption more than doubled between 1983 and 1988) and introduced cultured milk locally, in 1988. La Serenísima also introduced large-scale organic dairy farming in Argentina, in 1994, and became the first to fortify its products with iron sulfate.
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 Kettering, England, since 1956 ; 🇫🇷 Vence, France, since 1967 ; 🇧🇫 Ouahigouya, Burkina Faso, since 1978 ; Hermsdorf, Thuringia, Germany, since December 1990 ; 🇮🇹 Montesilvano, Italy, since May 2016
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP]
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] Lapland War  During World War II, the Lapland War (; ; ) saw fighting between Finland and Nazi Germany – effectively from September to November 1944 – in Finland's northernmost region, Lapland. Though the Finns and the Germans had been fighting against the Soviet Union since 1941 during the Continuation War (1941–1944), peace negotiations had already been conducted intermittently during 1943–1944 between Finland, the Western Allies and the USSR, but no agreement had been reached. The Moscow Armistice, signed on 19 September 1944, demanded that Finland break diplomatic ties with Germany and expel or disarm any German soldiers remaining in Finland after 15 September 1944.  The "Wehrmacht" had anticipated that turn of events and planned an organised withdrawal to German-occupied Norway, as part of Operation Birke (Birch). Despite a failed offensive landing operation by Germany in the Gulf of Finland, the evacuation proceeded peacefully at first. The Finns escalated the situation into warfare on 28 September after Soviet pressure to adhere to the terms of the armistice. The Finnish Army was required by the Soviet Union to demobilise and to pursue German troops out of Finnish soil. After a series of minor battles, the war came to an effective end in November 1944, when German troops had reached Norway or its vicinity and took fortified positions. The last German soldiers left Finland on 27 April 1945, shortly before the end of World War II in Europe.  The Finns considered the war a separate conflict because hostilities with other nations had ceased after the Continuation War. From the German perspective, it was a part of the two campaigns to evacuate from northern Finland and northern Norway. Soviet involvement in the war amounted to monitoring Finnish operations, minor air support and entering northeastern Lapland during the Petsamo–Kirkenes Offensive. The military impact was relatively limited with both sides sustaining around 4,000 in total casualties although the Germans' delaying scorched earth and land mine strategies devastated Finnish Lapland. The successfully withdrew, and Finland upheld its obligations under the Moscow Armistice, but it remained formally at war with the Soviet Union and the United Kingdom until ratification of the 1947 Paris Peace Treaty.
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP]
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] List of rivers of Europe  This article lists the principal rivers of Europe with their main tributaries.
In what country is Lätäseno? [SEP] Transboundary protected area  A transboundary protected area (TBPA) is an ecological protected area that spans boundaries of more than one country or sub-national entity. Such areas are also known as transfrontier conservation areas (TFCAs) or peace parks.  TBPAs exist in many forms around the world, and are established for various reasons. The preservation of traditional animal migration patterns, ensuring sufficient food and water sources for population growth, is a critical reason for the creation of TBPAs. However, TBPAs also encourage tourism, economic development and goodwill between neighbouring countries, as well as making it easier for indigenous inhabitants of the area to travel.
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]  Mount Shinten (信天山) is a mountain located on Kuba-jima of Senkaku Islands in Ishigaki, Okinawa, Japan. It is the second highest point of the island, after Mount Chitose.
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]  Mount Mitake (御岳山) is a mountain in the Chichibu Tama Kai National Park near Tokyo, Japan. It stands 929 m tall. On the mountain is a Shinto shrine where practices such as Futomani divination take place. It is one of the many highlights of the Chichibu Tama Kai National Park, which covers more than 1250 km2 of forested mountains, hills, gorges and some rural towns in the prefectures of Yamanashi, Saitama, Nagano and Tokyo. The trip from Tokyo's Shinjuku Station to Mitake Station on the Ōme Line takes about 95 minutes. A shuttle bus, located 50 meters to the left
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]  (立山, lit. "Upright Mountain") (the mountains Fuji, Haku and Tate are also known as the Sanreizan, mentioned below), Mount Ōmine (大峰山, lit. "Great Peak Mountain"), Mount Shakka (釈迦ヶ岳, lit. "Sakyamuni's Great Mountain"), Mount Daisen (大山, lit. "Great Mountain"), and Mount Ishizuchi (石鎚山, lit. "Stone Hammer Mountain") ; Naraku (奈落, lit. "Fall [from] Grace") – The Hell realm of incarnation, the lowest and worst realm on the Wheel of Re-incarnation. See Rinne (below). ; Nenju / Nenzu / Juzu / Zuzu (念珠 / 数珠, lit. "Thought Beads"; "Garland") – Shinto-Buddhist Rosary; a string or necklace of beads used for prayers. ; Ne-no-kuni (根の国, lit. "Land of Roots" or "Land of Origin") –
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]  Mount Yōtei (羊蹄山) is an active stratovolcano located in Shikotsu-Toya National Park, Hokkaidō, Japan. It is also called Yezo Fuji or Ezo Fuji (蝦夷富士), "Ezo" being an old name for the island of Hokkaido, because it resembles Mount Fuji. The mountain is also known as Makkari Nupuri (マッカリヌプリ) and Mount Shiribeshi (後方羊蹄山). It is one of the 100 famous mountains in Japan.
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]  Mount Nantai (男体山) literally "man's body mountain", also called Futara-san (二荒山) is a stratovolcano in the Nikkō National Park in Tochigi Prefecture, on central Honshū, the main island of Japan. It stands at 2,486 m high. A prominent landmark, it can be seen on clear days from as far as the Pacific coast, 100 km away.
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP] Mount Shinten
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP] Xindian District  Xindian District () is an inner city district in the southern part of New Taipei City, Taiwan.
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]
In what country is Mount Shinten? [SEP]
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]  Dual Plover is a pioneering independent Australian record label, founded in Sydney in 1996, notable for discovering some of the most enigmatic artists in experimental music. Founded by Lucas Abela and Swerve Harris, Dual Plover are concerned with releasing audio works by people whose work is outside of current trends, be it pop trends or the so-called avant-garde music trends. Dual Plover's first release 'a kombi - music to drive-by' consisted of recordings from a Volkswagen Kombi van originally recorded at picturesque Waverley Cemetery in September 1994. From 1996 onwards they have also been manufacturing CDs and DVDs as well as touring artists such as Kevin Blechdom, Al Duval and many others, both in their native Australia as well as internationally.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]  This species is predominantly found in New Zealand as this country holds these birds’ main nesting sites, however, they are partly migratory, with some dotterels’ that nest in South Island riverbeds and outwash fans from the high country, generally migrate to winter in Australia, New Caledonia, Vanuatu, Fiji, along with various other tropic countries. Other lowland and central southern birds move to different areas around New Zealand. Each bird will return to New Zealand to breed and for nesting season. Banded dotterels are spread throughout New Zealand however, they are more commonly located around northland coastal areas and around near off shore islands, as well as dense population located on Stewart Island. They are located sparsely on the west
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]  Double Island became part of the Plover Cove (Extension) Country Park in 1979.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]  The double-banded plover (Charadrius bicinctus), known as the banded dotterel or pohowera in New Zealand, is a species of bird in the plover family. Two subspecies are recognised: the nominate Charadrius bicinctus bicinctus, which breeds throughout New Zealand, including the Chatham Islands, and Charadrius bicinctus exilis, which breeds in New Zealand's subantarctic Auckland Islands.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]  The two-banded plover (Charadrius falklandicus) is a species of bird in the family Charadriidae. It breeds in Argentina, Chile and the Falkland Islands. Part of the population migrates north in winter with some birds reaching Uruguay and southern Brazil. Its natural habitats are freshwater lakes, saline marshes, rocky shores, and sandy shores.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP] Dual Plover  Dual Plover is an independent Australian record label founded in Sydney in 1995 by Lucas Abela and Swerve Harris. Dual Plover's first release "a kombi - music to drive-by" consisted of recordings from a Volkswagen Kombi van originally recorded at picturesque Waverley Cemetery in September 1994. From 1996 onwards they have also been manufacturing CDs and DVDs as well as touring artists such as Kevin Blechdom, Al Duval and many others, both in their native Australia as well as internationally.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP] Koalamagic  Koalamagic is a live album released in 2001 by Deerhoof on the Australian label Dual Plover. The album includes five tracks, some of which are several songs put together, recorded over the course of the band's early, noise-oriented years, from 1996 to 2000. The material is culled from Deerhoof's first full length, Holdypaws, Halfbird, and Reveille. The tracks are presented in the reverse-chronological order featuring various lineups, starting with the trio that recorded Reveille. The following tracks include performances by Rob Fisk, a founding member, and other short-lived members like Kelly Goode, Jess Goddard, and Chris Cooper. Ned Raggett of "AllMusic" described the album as "a sort-of band history as alternate arrangements and lineups came and went".
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP] Kentish plover  The Kentish plover (Charadrius alexandrinus) is a small cosmopolitan shorebird (40-44 g) of the family Charadriidae that breeds on the shores of saline lakes, lagoons, and coasts, populating sand dunes, marshes, semi-arid desert, and tundra. Both male and female birds have pale plumages with a white underside, grey/brown back, dark legs and a dark bill; however, additionally the male birds also exhibit very dark incomplete breast bands, and dark markings either side of their head, therefore the Kentish plover is regarded as sexually dimorphic  "Charadrius alexandrinus" has a large geographical distribution, ranging from latitudes of 10º to 55º, occupying North Africa, both mainland, such as Senegal, and island, such as the Cape Verde archipelago, Central Asia, for example alkaline lakes in China, and Europe, including small populations in Spain and Austria. Some populations are migratory and often winter in Africa, whereas other populations, such as various island populations, do not migrate. Its common English name comes from the county of Kent, where it was once found, but it has not bred in Britain since 1979.  Kentish plovers are ground-nesting birds, often with a preference for low, open, moist nesting sites away from thick vegetation and human activity. They use a number of materials to build their nests, mainly consisting of shells, pebbles, grass and leaves in a small scrape in the ground. Like most plovers, the Kentish plovers are predominantly insectivores, feeding on a large range of arthropods and invertebrates depending on the environment, by using a run and stop method.
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP]
In what country is Dual Plover? [SEP] Garry Bradbury  Garry Bradbury (1960 – January 2022) was a British-born Australian electronic musician active in Sydney's experimental music scene from 1979 to 2022.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP]  Saint-Antonin (Sant Antonin in Occitan) is a commune in the Alpes-Maritimes department in southeastern France.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP]  Saint-Antonin (Sent Antonin in Occitan) is a commune in the Gers department in southwestern France. It is located near Auch and Mauvezin.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP]  Saint-Antonin-sur-Bayon (Sant Antonin de Baion in Occitan) is a commune in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in southern France. The small stream Bayon runs through the village.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP]  Saint-Antonin-de-Lacalm (Languedocien: Sent Antonin de la Calm) is a former commune in the Tarn department in southern France. On 1 January 2019, it was merged into the new commune Terre-de-Bancalié.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP]  Sant'Antonin is a church in the sestiere of Castello in Venice, Italy.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP] Saint-Antonin-Noble-Val  Saint-Antonin-Noble-Val (; ) is a commune in the Tarn-et-Garonne department in the Occitanie region in southern France.  Having played an influential and somewhat bellicose role in the history of the region from the 12th to the 17th centuries, it then declined economically and as a result has preserved largely the medieval core which has many listed buildings and is now a major tourist attraction. Its Sunday market is extensive and draws visitors and locals alike. It is a member of the Cittaslow movement.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP] Saint-Antonin, Gers  Saint-Antonin (; ) is a commune in the Gers department in southwestern France. It is located near Auch and Mauvezin.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP] Saint-Antonin  Saint-Antonin may refer to the following places:
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP] Saint-Antonin-sur-Bayon  Saint-Antonin-sur-Bayon ("Sant Antonin de Baion" in Occitan) is a commune in the Bouches-du-Rhône department in southern France. The small stream Bayon runs through the village.
In what country is Saint-Antonin? [SEP] Saint-Antonin-du-Var  Saint-Antonin-du-Var ("Sant Antonin" in Occitan) is a commune in the Var department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in southeastern France. In 2012 there were approximately 632 inhabitants.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP]  Ferdinand Peterson (also Ferdinand Petersen; 13 March 1887 Lehtse Parish, Järva County – 18 February 1979 Chapel Hill, North Carolina, USA) was an Estonian engineer and politician. From 1918-1919, he was Minister of Roads in Estonian Provisional Government. In 1919, he was a member of Asutav Kogu. In 1944, he fled the Soviet occupation of Estonia to Germany, and in 1949 he emigrated to the United States. He was a honorary alumnus of the Estonian Students' Society.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP]  Kamau Peterson (born September 16, 1978) is a former professional Canadian football wide receiver and formerly the offensive coordinator for the York Lions football team. He last played for the BC Lions of the Canadian Football League. He was originally drafted sixth overall by the Calgary Stampeders in the 2001 CFL Draft and won the 89th Grey Cup with the team that year. Although he was born in Los Angeles, California, United States, Peterson grew up in Detroit, Michigan, but was schooled in LaSalle, Ontario, so he counts as a non-import in the CFL. Kamau transitioned into his post-football career by founding PlaymakerU which trained young athletes in many sports but especially football. Based in Sherwood Park, Alberta he
In what country is Peterson? [SEP]   Peterson is an Irish pipe maker.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP]  Peterson's first wife died in 1995. Two weeks after his installation in Hanoi, he met Vi Le, Australia's senior trade commissioner, born in Vietnam, whom he married. In 2002, he moved to Melbourne, Australia, so they could be closer to her family. In 2009, Peterson acquired Australian citizenship.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP]  Jaime Peterson (born September 29, 1971) is a Dominican-American former professional basketball player. A 2.06m forward-center, he was born in New York City to Dominican parents. After playing for three different high schools, including a postgraduate year at Maine Central Institute, Peterson played two seasons in the junior college circuit with Champlain College in Vermont before playing in the NCAA Division I with the Pittsburgh Panthers. He went undrafted in the 1995 NBA draft, and he started his professional career in France. In 2003 he was named the Most Valuable Player of the Liga Española de Baloncesto, the second tier of Spanish basketball. He played for the Dominican Republic national team from 1995 to 2005, and he won the silver medal at the 1995 and 2003 editions of Centrobasket.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP] Michael Peterson (singer)  Michael James Peterson (born August 7, 1959) is an American country music artist. He made his debut on the country music scene in 1997 with his second self-titled album (following his 1986 release featuring contemporary Christian songs), which produced five Top 40 hits on "Billboard"s Hot Country Singles & Tracks, including the Number One hit "From Here to Eternity". Peterson's second album, 1999's "Being Human", produced two more chart singles, and a third album, 2004's "Modern Man", was issued only in Europe. Peterson also made a cameo appearance on an episode of Walker, Texas Ranger.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP] The Far Country (album)  The Far Country is the sixth album by the American singer-songwriter Andrew Peterson, released in 2005. The title is from a quote by Meister Eckhart, a 16th-century German spiritual teacher that says, "God is at home. We are in the far country."
In what country is Peterson? [SEP] Aelin Peterson  Aelin Peterson (born June 7, 1974) is an American cross-country skier. She competed in four events at the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP] Peterson (surname)  Peterson/Petersen is a Scandinavian patronymic surname meaning "son of Peter." The given name Peter is derived from the Greek πέτρος (petros), meaning "rock" or "stone," and has been a popular name choice throughout history for the Christian apostle Peter. The surname is most commonly found in European countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Germany, Holland, and Brussels in the northwestern region. There are an estimated 700 variant spellings of the surname. The form "Peterson" may also have arisen from Danish "Petersen" with a change of spelling commonly applied by Danish immigrants to English-speaking countries. On another note, the surname "Peterson" is native to Sweden, therefore, "Peterson" is the correct spelling from that country.
In what country is Peterson? [SEP] From Here to Eternity (Michael Peterson song)  "From Here to Eternity" is a song recorded by American country music artist Michael Peterson, who co-wrote the song with Robert Ellis Orrall. It was released in September 1997 as the second single from his first album, "Michael Peterson", becoming his only number one hit on the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) charts that year.
In what country is Joy? [SEP] Germany (since 1995) ; Hungary (since 1998) ; Serbia (since 2003) ; Romania (since 2004) ; Czech Republic (since 2005) ; Russia (since 2006) ; Bulgaria (since 2006) ; Ukraine (since 2007) ; Indonesia (since 2011) Joy has 9 international editions:
In what country is Joy? [SEP]  Joy is a 2018 Austrian drama film directed and written by Sudabeh Mortezai. The plot revolves around Joy (Anwulika Alphonsus), a young Nigerian woman who walks the streets to pay off debts while also supporting her family in Nigeria and her daughter in Vienna. It was selected as the Austrian entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 92nd Academy Awards. However, the film was disqualified in November 2019, with the Academy stating that the film had too much dialogue in English. The filmmakers disputed the disqualification, arguing that when the parts of the dialogue in Nigerian Pidgin that are unintelligible to English speakers are counted separately from English, English constitutes less than 50% of the entire dialogue and thus the film should be eligible, but the Academy stood by its initial decision.
In what country is Joy? [SEP]  Joy is a young Nigerian woman walking the streets to pay off debts while supporting her family in Nigeria and her daughter in Vienna. She’s instructed to supervise Precious, a new teenage girl from Nigeria about to go down the same path as her.
In what country is Joy? [SEP]  Joy FM is a privately owned radio station in Accra, the capital of Ghana. The station is owned and run by the media group company Multimedia Group Limited. It is arguably the leading radio station in Ghana that broadcasts in the English language. Established in 1995 by Kwasi Twum, the founder of Multimedia Group Limited, Joy FM became the first private radio station to be licensed in Ghana.
In what country is Joy? [SEP]  as well as remakes of such hits as "Touch by Touch" and "Valerie". The album was released in Austria by the label Major Babies, and reached No. 21 in Austrian national chart. In September 2011 the album was released in Russia on the CD-Land label, and in Hungary – distributed by Hargent Media. On 15 July 2011, the trio performed in Estonia, at the Viljandi Retrofest for more than seven thousand viewers from Estonia and Latvia. In November 2011, Joy performed in Moscow once more – at the Diskoteka 80-x festival. This time the festival took place in the Olympic Stadium in Moscow. Since May 2012, Freddy Jaklitsch, due to his responsibilities as a leader of the popular band Seer, has performed with Joy less often. Michael Scheickl became Joy's lead vocalist for live shows.
In what country is Joy? [SEP]
In what country is Joy? [SEP] Country Joy  Country Joy is a Canadian soap opera television series which aired on CBC Television from 1979 to 1980.
In what country is Joy? [SEP] Kinder Joy  Kinder Joy (formerly known as Kinder Merendero in Italy and Bahrain) is a candy made by Italian confectionery company Ferrero as part of its Kinder brand of products. It has plastic egg-shaped packaging that splits into two; one half contains layers of cocoa and milk cream, and the other half contains a toy and a spoon on top of the wrapper. Kinder Joy was first launched in Italy in 2001 and was sold in 170 countries.
In what country is Joy? [SEP] Joy McKean  Joy McKean , (born 14 January 1930), is an Australian country music singer-songwriter and wife and manager of the late Slim Dusty. Known as the "grand lady" of Australian country music, McKean is recognised as one of Australia's leading songwriters and bush balladeers and wrote several of Dusty's most popular songs. In 1973, she was awarded the first ever Golden Guitar, for writing "Lights on the Hill". She was inducted into the Australian Roll of Renown in 1983. The 2020 documentary film "Slim and I" told the story of her life and musical partnership with Dusty. The McKean-Dusty musical partnership produced over 100 albums, sold eight million records in Australia alone, and earned 45 Golden Guitars.
In what country is Joy? [SEP] Joy Oladokun  Joy Oladokun (born April 6, 1992) is an American singer-songwriter. Oladokun's music spans the genres of folk, R&B, rock, and pop and is influenced by her identity as a queer woman of color. She has released three studio albums: "Carry" (2016), "In Defense of My Own Happiness (The Beginnings)" (2020), and "In Defense of My Own Happiness" (2021).
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]  The Valea Roșie or Roșia (Rossia-patak or Remete-patak) is a river in Romania, Bihor County, right tributary of the Crișul Negru. Its length is 38 km and its basin size is 308 km2. The river starts at the Roșia karst spring in the Pădurea Craiului Mountains. It flows through the hills of the Beiuș Depression and joins the Crișul Negru near Pocola. The most important villages on the river are Roșia, Remetea and Pocola.
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]  The Valea Șesii or Valea Șesei is a right tributary of the river Arieș in Romania. It flows into the Arieș near Baia de Arieș. The Valea Șesii dam is built on this river. Its length is 10 km and its basin size is 38 km2.
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]  The Valea Vadului is a river in Constanța County, Romania. Near the village Vadu it flows into the lagoon Balta Mare, which is connected with the Black Sea. Its length is 7 km and its basin size is 17 km2.
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]  The Valea Cerbului is a right tributary of the river Prahova in Romania. It source is in the Bucegi Mountains. It flows into the Prahova in Bușteni. Its length is 7 km and its basin size is 26 km2.
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]  The Valea Crișului is a right tributary of the river Olt in Romania. It flows into the Olt in Ghidfalău. Its length is 16 km and its basin size is 33 km2.
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP]
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP] A fictionalized version of these events is depicted in the 1992 film "Bram Stoker's Dracula", although in the film, the river the princess throws herself into is the Argeș itself. The ecosystem of the river was affected by the building of the reservoir. Before its building, "Romanichthys valsanicola", an endemic fish species, used to populate this river. Currently this species, listed as critically endangered, is only found along a 1 km stretch of the Vâlsan River. Râul Doamnei Râul Doamnei is a left tributary of the river Argeș in Romania. It discharges into the Argeș just north of Pitești. It
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP] Runcu Mare Vișeu River The Vișeu River in northern Romania is a tributary of Tisa River. Its source is in the Rodna Mountains. It passes through the following villages, communes and cities: Borșa (city), Moisei (commune), Vișeu de Sus (city), Vișeu de Jos (commune), Leordina (commune), Petrova (commune), Bistra (village), Valea Vișeului (village). In Valea Vișeului village, the river flows into Tisa river. Its drainage basin covers an area of . The following rivers are tributaries to the river Vișeu: Left: Fântâna, Negoescu, Repedea, Pietrosu, Dragoș, Izvorul Negru, Drăguiasa, Bocicoel, Spânu, Mârza, Plăiuț Right: Cercănel, Cisla, Vaser, Valea Vinului, Ruscova,
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP] Nuci, Valea Mărului, Valea Surpăturii, Valea Orății, Conciu, Florei, Cernica, Bătrâioara, Șaaru, Valea lui Sărăcilă, Câmpinița, Doftana, Viișoara, Teleajen, Cricovul Sărat Right: Joița, Râșnoava, Pârâul Sec, Valea Brusturilor, Valea Stânei, Valea Grecului, Valea Fabricii, Valea Cerbului, Valea Albă, Paltinu, Valea Jepilor, Valea Seacă a Jepilor, Urlătoarea, Valea Babei, Piatra Arsă, Peleș, Valea Cășăriei, Valea Iancului, Zgarbura, Izvorul Dorului, Valea Largă, Pârlita, Dogăria, Valea Dracului, Valea Măgarului, Valea Seciului, Valea Obielei, Valea Mesteacănului, Valea Beliei, Nistorești, Cacova, Sunătoarea, Valea Câmpului, Slanița, Poienari Prahova River The Prahova River is a river of Southern Romania, which rises from the Bucegi Mountains, in the
In what country is Valea Pleșii River? [SEP] Balaciu, Căzănești, Ciochina, Andrășești, Perieți, Slobozia, Cosâmbești, Bucu, Sudiți and Țăndărei. The largest cities along the Ialomița are Târgoviște and Slobozia. The following rivers are tributaries to the river Ialomița: Left: Valea Șugărilor, Cocora, Lăptici, Scândurari, Blana, Nucet, Oboarele, Scropoasa, Orzea, Brândușa, Gâlma, Ialomicioara, Rușețu, Leurda, Bizdidel, Slănic de Răzvad, Slănic, Pâscov, Crivăț, Cricovul Dulce, Prahova, Sărata, Cotorca, Sărățuica, Strachina Right: Valea Doamnelor, Valea Sucheniței, Horoaba, Coteanu, Valea Văcăriei, Tătaru, Gâlgoiu, Mircea, Bolboci, Lucăcilă, Zănoaga, Valea Cabanierului, Brătei, Rătei, Raciu, Valea Doicii, Seciul cu Colți, Voivodeni, Țâța, Ialomicioara, Vulcana, Racovița, Snagov, Cociovaliștea, Comana The Naparis River, mentioned in Histories Book
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP]  Sutlepa (Sutlep) is a village in Lääne-Nigula Parish, Lääne County, in western Estonia. Wooden Sutlepa chapel from the 17th century was moved to Estonian Open Air Museum in Tallinn in 1970.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP]  Sutlepa chapel Sutlepa chapel was built in the region populated by Estonian Swedes and is one of the oldest wooden buildings in Estonia. The chapel was built in Sutlepa village of Noarootsi parish as a subordinate church to Noarootsi parish church. The construction cannot be precisely dated: archival data mention the chapel as early as in 1627, but the year engraved above the church door is ‘1699’. The chapel was brought to the museum in 1970 and erected in 1971–1976. Sutlepa chapel was re-consecrated in 1989 and has since been a subordinate church of Jaani parish of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church. Sermons are held in the chapel on major holy days and
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP]  Sutlepa Sea (Estonian Sutlepa meri) is a lake in Estonia.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP]  Sutle is a village in Homalin Township, Hkamti District, in the Sagaing Region of northwestern Burma.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP]  Sutlema is a village in Kohila Parish, Rapla County in northwestern Estonia.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP] Sutlepa  Sutlepa () is a village in Lääne-Nigula Parish, Lääne County, in western Estonia.  Wooden Sutlepa chapel from the 17th century was moved to Estonian Open Air Museum in Tallinn in 1970.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP] Sutlepa Sea  Sutlepa Sea (Estonian "Sutlepa meri") is a lake in Estonia.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP] Noarootsi Parish  Noarootsi Parish (, ) was a rural municipality in Lääne County, western Estonia between 1991 and 2017. It covered an area of and had a population of 910.  The administrative centre of Noarootsi Parish was Pürksi village (). It is located 10 km north from the capital of Lääne County, Haapsalu.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP] Estonian Open Air Museum  The Estonian Open Air Museum (Estonian: "Eesti Vabaõhumuuseum") is a life-sized reconstruction of an 18th-19th century rural/fishing village, which includes church, tavern, schoolhouse, several mills, a fire station, twelve farmyards and net sheds. Furthermore, it includes a recently opened 20th century Soviet kolkhoz apartment building, and a prefabricated modern wooden house from 2019. The site spans of land and along with the farmyards, old public buildings are arranged singularly and in groups in a way that represents an overview of Estonian vernacular architecture of the past two centuries from across Estonia.  The museum is located to the west of Tallinn city center at Rocca al Mare.  The plans for founding the museum were first discussed in 1913, when Estonian literati, inspired by Scandinavian open-air museums, wanted to establish such a museum in Estonia. It was finally established in 1957 and opened to visitors in 1964.  The museum's oldest exhibit is the Sutlepa Chapel of the Noarootsi Swedish church, which has been reported since 1670. The most modern exhibit is a prefabricated wooden house from 2019 constructed at the museum; and the most recent exhibit that has opened to visitors in 2021 is the Kolhoz apartment building from the 1960s, brought from Southern Estonia from a former collective farm.
In what country is Sutlepa? [SEP] Rocca al Mare  Rocca al Mare (Italian for ""Rock-by-the-Sea""; ) is a subdistrict () in the district of Haabersti, Tallinn, the capital of Estonia. It is mostly covered by the Estonian Open Air Museum. Besides the museum there is also a private secondary school located in the subdistrict.  Estonia's third largest shopping centre, Rocca al Mare Shopping Centre is located southeast of Rocca al Mare, officially located in the Haabersti subdistrict.  There are no residents living in the subdistrict.<ref name=population/>
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]  Movraž ( or ) is a small village in the City Municipality of Koper in the Littoral region of Slovenia. The parish church in the settlement is dedicated to the Assumption of Mary.
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]   MoAZ or Mogilev Automobile Plant is an automotive and earth-moving equipment manufacturer in the city of Mogilev, Belarus. MoAZ is a subsidiary of BelAZ since 2006. In 1958 MoAZ was named in honor of Sergey Kirov, a prominent early Bolshevik leader in the Soviet Union. The company was founded in 1935 as Workshop. In 1941 the plant was evacuated to Kuibyshev, where he mastered the production of engines for the attack aircraft IL-2. After World War II the plant was returned to Mogilev and produced locomotives, steam-powered machinery, overhead cranes and oil trucks on chassis GAZ-51. In 1958 the factory conveyor
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]  A memorial museum dedicated to Molla Panah Vagif and Molla Vali Vidadi is located in the city.
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]  allowed to re-enter the Well. As the novel closes, Mavra, Marquoz, and Yua have arrived at their new hexes and are beginning to find their bearings. Marquoz is in Hakazit, a high-tech, volcanic land of massive armored lizards (though not firebreathers, to his disappointment). Yua is in Awbri, a nontechnological land of arboreal mammals in which the society is dominated by males. Mavra is in Dillia, semitechnological land of the centaurs. Gypsy resurfaces in an ocean hex, curiously untransformed. As the first waves of Olympians begin to pass through zone, an alarm sounds, and Serge Ortega is summoned to find that his guards have killed Nathan Brazil.
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]   The Moskvitch was a 20th-century Soviet/Bulgarian passenger car. Between 1966 and 1990, the Balkan factory in Lovech, Bulgaria, assembled the Soviet-designed Moskvitch 408 (later replaced by the 412 / 1500 and Aleko) from complete knock down (CKD) kits. During the fall of 1965 Bulgaria and the USSR signed an economic cooperation agreement for the period of 1966-1970, which contained a provision that by the end of 1968 the Balkan factory in Lovech would be completely tooled for the assembly of 15,000 Moskvitch 408 passenger cars annually. In January 1966, a group of 20 Bulgarian engineers is sent to the MZMA (Moscow Factory for Compact Cars), later renamed to AZLK or
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]
In what country is Movraž? [SEP] Smokvica, Koper  Smokvica () is a village in the City Municipality of Koper in the Littoral region of Slovenia.  The local church is dedicated to Mary Magdalene and belongs to the Parish of Movraž.
In what country is Movraž? [SEP]
In what country is Movraž? [SEP] Rakitovec, Koper  Rakitovec () is a village in the City Municipality of Koper in the Littoral region of Slovenia on the border with Croatia.  The local church is dedicated to Saint James and belongs to the Parish of Predloka.
In what country is Movraž? [SEP] were allowed to re-enter the Well. As the novel closes, Mavra, Marquoz, and Yua have arrived at their new hexes and are beginning to find their bearings. Marquoz is in Hakazit, a high-tech, volcanic land of massive armored lizards (though not firebreathers, to his disappointment). Yua is in Awbri, a nontechnological land of arboreal mammals in which the society is dominated by males. Mavra is in Dillia, semitechnological land of the centaurs. Gypsy resurfaces in an ocean hex, curiously untransformed. As the first waves of Olympians begin to pass through zone, an alarm sounds, and Serge Ortega is summoned to
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]  Sarnowo (Rehgart) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Skępe, within Lipno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]  The oldest known mention of the village comes from 1257. Chełmno was a private village of Polish nobility, administratively located in the Poznań County in the Poznań Voivodeship in the Greater Poland Province of the Polish Crown. During the German occupation of Poland (World War II), in 1940, the occupiers carried out expulsions of Poles, who were sent to a transit camp in Łódź, and then deported to the General Government in the more eastern part of German-occupied Poland, while their houses and farms were handed over to German colonists as part of the Lebensraum policy.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]  Sarnów is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gniewoszów, within Kozienice County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km south-east of Gniewoszów, 23 km south-east of Kozienice, and 102 km south-east of Warsaw.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]  Sarnowo is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kuczbork-Osada, within Żuromin County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north of Kuczbork-Osada, 13 km north-east of Żuromin, and 121 km north-west of Warsaw.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]  Chełmno is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Pniewy, within Szamotuły County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km south-east of Pniewy, 22 km south-west of Szamotuły, and 42 km west of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 423.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP] Sarnowo, Chełmno County  Sarnowo () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Stolno, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. It lies approximately north-east of Stolno, east of Chełmno, and north of Toruń. It is located in the Chełmno Land in the historic region of Pomerania.
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP] Sarnowo  Sarnowo may refer to
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP]
In what country is Sarnowo, Chełmno County? [SEP] Gmina Stolno  Gmina Stolno is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. Its seat is the village of Stolno, which lies approximately south-east of Chełmno, north of Toruń, and north-east of Bydgoszcz.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 5,110.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]  Saint-Pierre-de-Belleville (Sent-Pierro-de-Bèlavela) is a commune in the Savoie department in the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region in south-eastern France.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]  Saint-Pierre is a village in the Cornillon commune in the Croix-des-Bouquets Arrondissement in the Ouest department of Haiti.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]  Saint-Pierre-de-Juillers is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in southwestern France.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]  Saint-Pierre-des-Landes is a commune in the Mayenne department in north-western France. Amenities: Small supermarket, boulangerie, infant school, dechetterie, repair garage, hairdresser, Mairie, fire station, small War Memorial, public toilets, small fishing lake
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]  Saint-Pierre-d'Autils is a former commune in the Eure department in Normandy in northern France. On 1 January 2017, it was merged into the new commune La Chapelle-Longueville. Its habitants are called the Petrusians.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP] Saint-Pierrevillers  Saint-Pierrevillers () is a commune in the Meuse department in Grand Est in north-eastern France.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP] Pierrevillers  Pierrevillers (; ) is a commune in the Moselle department in Grand Est in north-eastern France. It is part of the urban area of Metz.
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP] Canton of Bouligny  The canton of Bouligny is an administrative division of the Meuse department, northeastern France. It was created at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its seat is in Bouligny.  It consists of the following communes:<ref name=decret/>
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP]
In what country is Saint-Pierrevillers? [SEP] Arrondissement of Verdun  The arrondissement of Verdun is an arrondissement of France in the Meuse department in the Grand Est region. It has 254 communes. The six communes in the Arrondissement was never inhabited.
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP]  The Archipelago Museum  (or Rönnäs-museum) in Rönnäs, Loviisa in Finland, is dedicated to coastal areas and the archipelagos and their specific life. It is run by a local trust from the start in 1985. The museum holds one of Finland's largest collections of traditional peasant boats. The basic exhibition located in the basement of the main building, stresses the impact of human life in the nature of the archipelagos by describing the initial colonization of the barren areas, as well as of the introduction of agrarian occupation. In addition to the maritime occupation such as seal hunting, fishery and seabird hunting, also coastal navigation and pilotage are presented in the exhibition. The boat occupies the central position in being the prime tool of
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP]  population. The upper floor of the main building presents an exhibition of wooden boats and boat building. Here we find work boats and boats of bygone days, as well as a presentation of wooden boat building along clinker and cravel-techniques. In addition to permanent exhibitions here mentioned the museum annually presents a selected theme connected to the maritime culture. In the wooden shed, opposite the main building, the visitor will find a collection of marine engines, inboard as well as outboard, possibly the most important in Finland. The upper floor of this shed houses an exhibition on summer life in the skerries in bygone days including pleasure boats. The museum trust also publishes a journal concerned with the archaeology and ethnology of boats.
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP]  Archipelago National Park (Skärgårdshavets nationalpark, Saaristomeren kansallispuisto) is a national park in Southwest Finland. It was established in 1983 and covers 500 km2 of land areas, a huge land area considering that the area mostly is outer archipelago with few islands even 1 km2 - and the big ones are inhabited and mostly privately owned and thus not part of the national park. The park's web pages give that number as non-qualified "area". It is part of the UNESCO biosphere reserves and received a PAN Parks certificate in 2007. The park encompasses all state-owned land and water areas owned by the state within the borders
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP]  The Maritime Museum (Museum Bahari) is located in the old Sunda Kelapa harbor area in Penjaringan Administrative Village, Penjaringan Subdistrict, Jakarta, Indonesia. The museum was inaugurated inside the former Dutch East India Company warehouses. The museum focuses on the maritime history of Indonesia and the importance of the sea to the economy of present-day Indonesia. The museum displays models of fishing boats and other maritime objects from different parts of Indonesia. The museum also exhibits the celebrated Pinisi schooners of the Bugis people of South Sulawesi, which at present make up one of the last sea-going sailing fleets in the world. In January 2018, much of the museum was destroyed by a fire.
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP] Falkland Islands Museum
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP] Archipelago Museum  The Archipelago Museum (or Rönnäs-museum) in Rönnäs, Loviisa in Finland, is dedicated to coastal areas and the archipelagos and their specific life. It is run by a local trust from the start in 1985. The museum holds one of Finland's largest collections of traditional peasant boats.  The basic exhibition located in the basement of the main building, stresses the impact of human life in the nature of the archipelagos by describing the initial colonization of the barren areas, as well as of the introduction of agrarian occupation. The exhibition showcases maritime occupations such as seal hunting, fishery and seabird hunting, as well as coastal navigation and pilotage. The upper floor of the main building presents an exhibition of wooden boats and boat building.   In addition to permanent exhibitions, the museum annually presents a selected theme connected to the maritime culture. The museum trust also publishes a journal on archaeology and ethnology of boats.
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP]
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP] Malta  Malta ( , , ), officially the Republic of Malta ( ), is an island country in the Mediterranean Sea. It consists of an archipelago, between Italy and Libya, and is often considered a part of Southern Europe. It lies south of Sicily (Italy), east of Tunisia, The official languages are Maltese and English, and 66% of the current Maltese population is at least conversational in the Italian language.  Malta has been inhabited since approximately 5900 BC. Its location in the centre of the Mediterranean has historically given it great strategic importance as a naval base, with a succession of powers having contested and ruled the islands, including the Phoenicians and Carthaginians, Romans, Greeks, Arabs, Normans, Aragonese, Knights of St. John, French, and British, amongst others.  With a population of about 516,000 and fourth most densely populated sovereign country. Its capital is Valletta, which is the smallest national capital in the European Union by area and population. According to the data from 2020 by Eurostat, the Functional Urban Area and metropolitan region covered the whole island and has a population of 480,134, and according to the United Nations, ESPON and EU Commission, "the whole territory of Malta constitutes a single urban region". or metropolitan areas.<ref name="inta-aivn.org"/>  Malta became a British colony in 1813, serving as a way station for ships and the headquarters for the British Mediterranean Fleet. It was besieged by the Axis powers during World War II and was an important Allied base for operations in North Africa and the Mediterranean. The British parliament passed the Malta Independence Act in 1964, giving Malta independence from the United Kingdom as the State of Malta, with Elizabeth II as its queen. The country became a republic in 1974. It has been a member state of the Commonwealth of Nations and the United Nations since independence, and joined the European Union in 2004; it became part of the eurozone monetary union in 2008.  Malta has had Christians since the time of Early Christianity, though was predominantly Muslim while under Arab rule, at which time Christians were tolerated. Muslim rule ended with the Norman invasion of Malta by Roger I in 1091. Today, Catholicism is the state religion, but the Constitution of Malta guarantees freedom of conscience and religious worship. The economy of Malta is heavily reliant on tourism, and the country promotes itself as a Mediterranean tourist destination with its warmer climate compared to the rest of Europe, numerous recreational areas, and architectural and historical monuments, including three UNESCO World Heritage Sites: Ħal Saflieni Hypogeum, Valletta, and seven megalithic temples which are some of the oldest free-standing structures in the world.<ref name=b1/>
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP] Indonesia  Indonesia, officially the Republic of Indonesia, is a country in Southeast Asia and Oceania between the Indian and Pacific oceans. It consists of over 17,000 islands, including Sumatra, Java, Sulawesi, and parts of Borneo and New Guinea. Indonesia is the world's largest archipelagic state and the 14th-largest country by area, at . With over 275 million people, Indonesia is the world's fourth-most populous country and the most populous Muslim-majority country. Java, the world's most populous island, is home to more than half of the country's population.  Indonesia is a presidential republic with an elected legislature. It has 38 provinces, of which nine have special status. The country's capital, Jakarta, is the world's second-most populous urban area. Indonesia shares with Papua New Guinea, East Timor, and the eastern part of Malaysia, as well as maritime borders with Singapore, Vietnam, Thailand, the Philippines, Australia, Palau, and India (Andaman and Nicobar Islands). Despite its large population and densely populated regions, Indonesia has vast areas of wilderness that support one of the world's highest levels of biodiversity.  The Indonesian archipelago has been a valuable region for trade since at least the 7th century when Srivijaya and later Majapahit traded with entities from mainland China and the Indian subcontinent. Local rulers gradually absorbed foreign influences from the early centuries, and Hindu and Buddhist kingdoms flourished. Sunni traders and Sufi scholars brought Islam, while Christianity was spread by Europeans. Although the Portuguese, the French and British also ruled at some point, the Dutch were the foremost colonial power for much of their presence in the archipelago. The concept of "Indonesia" as a nation-state emerged in the early 20th century, culminating later in the proclamation of Indonesian Independence in 1945. However, it was not until 1949 that the Dutch recognised Indonesia's sovereignty following an armed and diplomatic conflict between the two.  Indonesia consists of thousands of distinct native ethnic and hundreds of linguistic groups, with Javanese being the largest. A shared identity has developed with the motto ""Bhinneka Tunggal Ika"" ("Unity in Diversity" "literally", "many, yet one"), defined by a national language, cultural diversity, religious pluralism within a Muslim-majority population, and a history of colonialism and rebellion against it. The economy of Indonesia is the world's 17th-largest by nominal GDP and the 7th-largest by PPP. It is a regional power and is considered a middle power in global affairs. The country is a member of several multilateral organisations, including the United Nations, World Trade Organization, G20, and a founding member of the Non-Aligned Movement, Association of Southeast Asian Nations, East Asia Summit, D-8 and the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation.
In what country is Archipelago Museum? [SEP] Arctic Archipelago  The Arctic Archipelago, also known as the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, is an archipelago lying to the north of the Canadian continental mainland, excluding Greenland (an autonomous territory of Denmark).  Situated in the northern extremity of North America and covering about , this group of 36,563 islands, surrounded by the Arctic Ocean, comprises much of Northern Canada, predominately Nunavut and the Northwest Territories. The archipelago is showing some effects of climate change, with some computer estimates determining that melting there will contribute to the rise in sea levels by 2100.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] 🇫🇷 Garons, France (2000) Revigliasco d'Asti is twinned with:
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP]  Revigliasco d'Asti is a comune (municipality) in the Province of Asti in the Italian region Piedmont, located about 45 km southeast of Turin and about 6 km southwest of Asti. Revigliasco d'Asti borders the following municipalities: Antignano, Asti, Celle Enomondo, and Isola d'Asti.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Weinsberg, Germany; twinned since 2000
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP]  A.S.D. Asti, known as Asti and formerly A.S.D. Alfieri Asti or A.S.D. Colline Alfieri Don Bosco (Colline Alfieri D.B. or just Colline Alfieri ), is an Italian football club based in Asti, Piedmont. FIGC registration number of the club is 63,519. The club spent entire history in the Piedmont - Aosta Valley divisions of the Lega Nazionale Dilettanti.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] 🇮🇹 Finale Ligure, Italy
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] Revigliasco d'Asti  Revigliasco d'Asti is a "comune" (municipality) in the Province of Asti in the Italian region Piedmont, located about southeast of Turin and about southwest of Asti.  Revigliasco d'Asti borders the following municipalities: Antignano, Asti, Celle Enomondo, and Isola d'Asti.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] Isola d'Asti  Isola d'Asti is a "comune" (municipality) in the Province of Asti in the Italian region Piedmont, located about southeast of Turin and about south of Asti.  Isola d'Asti borders the following municipalities: Antignano, Asti, Costigliole d'Asti, Mongardino, Montegrosso d'Asti, Revigliasco d'Asti, and Vigliano d'Asti. The municipal seat is in the "frazione" of Isola Piano.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] Antignano  Antignano is a "comune" (municipality) in the Province of Asti in the Italian region Piedmont, located about southeast of Turin and about southwest of Asti.  Antignano borders the following municipalities: Celle Enomondo, Costigliole d'Asti, Isola d'Asti, Revigliasco d'Asti, San Damiano d'Asti, and San Martino Alfieri.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP] Turco (family)  The Turco, Turchi, Turci or sometimes Turco dei De Castello family's rise to prominence originated in 12th-century Asti, Italy, and later the surrounding comunes of Frinco, Mombercelli, Montemagno, Tonco, Viale, and in part Barbaresco, Neive, Revigliasco d'Asti and Savigliano. They are considered one of the "Casane Astigiane", the major familial banking "houses" that powered the economy of medioeval Asti.  Their accession to noble status can be traced to their increased wealth through banking, lending and property investment, starting in the 11th and 12th centuries. They were renowned as Ghibelline supporters throughout the Middle Ages. Their economic prestige dropped at the end of the 16th century and the family eventually fell from nobility.
In what country is Revigliasco d'Asti? [SEP]
In what country is Willow River? [SEP]  The Willow River is a tributary of the Fraser River in the north-central Interior of British Columbia, Canada. It enters the Fraser near the community of Willow River, just upstream from the city of Prince George, near the confluence of the Salmon River. Its source is in the Cariboo goldfields at Jack of Clubs Lake in the mining and arts community of Wells, British Columbia, near Barkerville. In 1974, the canyon of the Willow River, east of Prince George, was the scene of a tragic accident involving eight teenagers who died when their three canoes and kayak were broken in the raging waters and boulders of a narrow gorge.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP]  The Willow River is a 31.4 mi tributary of the Kettle River in eastern Minnesota in the United States. It is one of three rivers by that name in Minnesota. Via the Kettle and St. Croix rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP]  Willow River is a city in Pine County, Minnesota, United States, at the confluence of the Kettle and Willow Rivers. The population was 415 at the 2010 census. Interstate 35, County Road 43, and County 61 (Cross Street) are three of the main routes in the community.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] "Big Willow River" at Atlas of Canada. Accessed 2016-04-24.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP]  After a devastating prairie fire destroyed much of the grass and timber in the area around Wood Mountain, Saskatchewan, many First Nations and Métis people were driven by a bison shortage and an increasing population to seek out new settlements. Many settled along the Milk River, south of the 49th parallel, and the Frenchman River, one of its tributaries in Saskatchewan. A number of them settled in the area known by the Métis as Talle de Saules (clump of willows) and Hart Rouge, now known as Willow Bunch. In 1881, Jean-Louis Légaré, a French-Canadian trader and one of the founding members of
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] Willow River, Minnesota  Willow River is a city in Pine County, Minnesota, United States, at the confluence of the Kettle and Willow Rivers. The population was 415 at the 2010 census.  Interstate 35, County Road 43, and County 61 (Cross Street) are three of the main routes in the community.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] Willow River (Kettle River tributary)  The Willow River is a  tributary of the Kettle River in eastern Minnesota in the United States. It is one of three rivers by that name in Minnesota. Via the Kettle and St. Croix rivers, it is part of the watershed of the Mississippi River.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] Willow River, British Columbia  Willow River is a community northeast of Prince George, on the northeast bank of the Willow River, southeast of the confluence with the Fraser River, in central British Columbia. The name derives from the many willow swamps in the river valley. Comprising about 150 residents, it has a general store/post-office, a volunteer fire department, church building and a small community hall. Street map.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] Redwillow River  The Redwillow River is a tributary of the Wapiti River in northern Alberta and north-eastern British Columbia, Canada. It flows through the Pouce Coupe Prairie, in the south of Peace River Country.
In what country is Willow River? [SEP] Willow River (British Columbia)  The Willow River is a tributary of the Fraser River in the north-central Interior of British Columbia, Canada. It enters the Fraser near the community of Willow River, just upstream from the city of Prince George, near the confluence of the Salmon River. Its source is in the Cariboo goldfields at Jack of Clubs Lake in the mining and arts community of Wells, British Columbia, near Barkerville. In 1974, the canyon of the Willow River, east of Prince George, was the scene of a tragic accident involving eight teenagers who died when their three canoes and kayak were broken in the raging waters and boulders of a narrow gorge.
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]  Uñón District is one of fourteen districts of the province Castilla in Peru.
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]  Telecommunications and information sources is an area that every year more and progress records. Diversity and quality of these services has increased considerably. The banking system is represented by 11 branches of banks in Moldova.
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]  Una is a district in the Indian state of Himachal Pradesh. Una shares its border with the Hoshiarpur and Rupnagar districts of  Punjab and Kangra, Hamirpur and Bilaspur district of Himachal Pradesh. The terrain is generally semi-hilly with low hills. Una has five tehsils, namely Ghanari, Haroli, Amb, Bangana and Una itself. It was a tehsil of Hoshiarpur district until the Punjab Reorganisation Act, 1966 and Kangra district until 1972, after which it became a district of Himachal Pradesh.
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]  Nauranga Bass Jattan is a village in the Bhiwani district of the Indian state of Haryana. It lies approximately 43 km south of the district headquarters town of Bhiwani. In this village there is a famous temple of the Hindu which is very famous in nearby area people from other states also visit there
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]  According to the 2011 census Una district has a population of 521,173, giving it a ranking of 543rd in India (out of a total of 640). The district has a population density of 338 PD/sqkm. Its population growth rate over the decade 2001-2011 was 16.24%. Una has a sex ratio of 977 females for every 1000 males, and a literacy rate of 87.23%. Local languages are Himachali, Hindi and Punjabi. Punjabi with mixture of Himachali language is mostly used in plain areas of Una City, tehsil Ghanari and Haroli Tehsil. But in other areas like Bangana, Amb and Chintpurni Himachali language is widely spoken. According to the 2001 census, the total population of Una was 447,967 with a sex-ratio of 997. The literacy rate stood at 81.09%. In 2011, population figures were raised to 521,057 with decreased sex ratio of 977. The literacy rate increased to 87.23%. The total area of the district is 1549 km2. The urban population contributes nearly 9% of the total population. Hinduism is the most common religion. Sikhism and Islam have sizable number of followers. Christians and others form very small minorities.
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP]
In what country is Uñón District? [SEP] Yanqha  Yanqha (Aymara for bad, Quechua "yanqha, yanqa", useless, trivial, unimportant, Hispanicized spelling "Yancca") is a mountain in the Andes of Peru, about high. It is situated in the Arequipa Region, Castilla Province, on the border of the districts Ayo and Uñón. Yanqha lies south of the mountains Yanawara and Yana Urqu (Quechua for "black mountain", Hispanicized "Yana Orcco") and north of the mountain Qullpa.
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]  Netherlands (in public schools, hospitals and on public transport), Germany (partial bans in some states), Italy (in some localities), Spain (in some localities of Catalonia), Russia (in the Stavropol Krai),  Luxembourg, Switzerland, Norway (in nurseries, public schools and universities), Canada (in the public workplace in Quebec), Gabon, Chad, Senegal, the Republic of the Congo, Cameroon (in some localities), Niger (in some localities), Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan (ban on all personal religious symbols), Azerbaijan (in public schools), Turkey (in the judiciary, military and police), Kosovo (in public schools), Bosnia and Herzegovina (in courts and other legal institutions), Morocco (ban on manufacturing, marketing and sale), Tunisia (in public institutions), Egypt (in universities), Algeria (in the public workplace), and China (in Xinjiang).
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]  illegal to advertise cigarettes or other tobacco products. In 2010 Nepal planned to enact a new anti-smoking bill that would ban smoking in public places and outlaw all tobacco advertising to prevent young people from smoking. On 31 May 2011 Venezuela introduced a restriction upon smoking in enclosed public and commercial spaces. Smoking was first restricted in schools, hospitals, trains, buses and train stations in Turkey in 1996. In 2008 a more comprehensive smoking ban was implemented, covering all public indoor venues. Smoking has been restricted at a French beach – the Plage Lumière in La Ciotat, France, became the first beach in
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]  Health Organization, advertisements promoting beer, wine and spirits are banned in the country. In 1996, a decree was issued outlawing advertisements for tobacco products. Some products or services are simply banned in the country, likely meaning advertisements about those products are as well. Facebook, and presumably advertisements promoting it, was banned in 2007 (the ban was later lifted in 2011). Other social media sites including YouTube are also banned. Independent news media in Syria is banned and so is the use of foreign currencies in business deals. Even though not directly referring to advertising, Freedom House said in 2017 that the press in Syria is not free,
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]  (sales temporarily banned in bars and restaurants from December 13, 2021 due to the Omicron variant in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic in Norway) ; (legal for non-Muslims foreigners, Muslims can only consume alcohol inside a bar) ; (excluding non-Muslims) ; (De facto illegal in the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip only, legal in the West Bank) ; (excluding non-Muslims) ; (excluding non-Muslims) ; (prohibition is only by the emirate of sharjah) 🇳🇴 Norway (sales temporarily banned in bars and restaurants from December 13, 2021 due to the Omicron variant in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic in Norway) ; (legal for
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]  from this. In Finland, Parliament of Finland decided to ban alcohol outdoor advertising, except during sport events. This new law is going to take place in January 2015. In the United Kingdom, the Advertising Standards Authority have banned several ads that don't comply with the restrictions in the EU directive. In Norway, Advertising on alcohol is banned totally since 1975. In September 2017, Facebook announced it would allow users to hide all alcohol advertisements. The move is debated within the UK, as Alcohol Research UK group welcomed the change, while the Alcohol Standards Authority said the UK already had some of the strictest rules in the world. In November 2018, Ireland introduced a law banning alcohol advertisements near schools, children play areas, public transportation, and cinemas, as well as restricting visibility of alcohol products in stores. The legislation will take effect November 2019.
In what country is Ban On? [SEP] List of countries with alcohol prohibition  The following countries have or had comprehensive prohibitions against alcohol. Particularly the term refers to the banning of the manufacture, storage (whether in barrels or in bottles), transportation, sale, possession, and consumption of alcoholic beverages.
In what country is Ban On? [SEP] Censorship of Facebook  Facebook is a social networking service that has been gradually replacing traditional media channels since 2010. Facebook has limited moderation of the content posted to its site. Because the site indiscriminately displays material publicly posted by users, Facebook can, in effect, threaten oppressive governments. Facebook can simultaneously propagate fake news, hate speech, and misinformation, thereby undermining the credibility of online platforms and social media.   Many countries have banned or temporarily limited access to Facebook. Iran, North Korea, and Russia. However, since most North Korean residents have no access to the Internet, China, Russia, and Iran are the only countries where access to Facebook is actively restricted in a wholesale manner, although it is possible to access the site through onion services.
In what country is Ban On? [SEP] List of citizenships refused entry to foreign states  Some sovereign states refuse entry to all citizens of certain states. These restrictions differ from travel visa requirements, which require travelers to obtain permission to enter a country in advance of their travel. With few exceptions, citizens of the states in this list are prohibited from entering the corresponding listed states. Such prohibitions are often referred to as travel bans, although that term can have other meanings.
In what country is Ban On? [SEP]
In what country is Ban On? [SEP] Censorship of YouTube  The video-sharing platform YouTube is the second-most popular website as of August 2019, according to Alexa Internet. According to the company's press page, YouTube has more than one billion users, and each day, those users watch more than one billion hours of video. Censorship of it has occurred and continues to occur to varying degrees in most countries throughout the world.
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]   Kanaküla is a village in Saarde Parish, Pärnu County, in southwestern Estonia.
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP] USA and Canada 2010 ; Spain 2009 ; China 2006 ; Germany 2003 ; Brazil 2002
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]  Ala-Honkajoki, Hapua, Jyränkylä, Karhusaari, Korvaluoma, Kyynärjärvi, Narvi, Niinisalo, Santaskylä, Taulunoja, Venesjärvi, Veneskoski, Verttuu and Vihteljärvi.
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]  The town is part of the Ajië-Aro Kanak cultural grouping, and Ajië is the local language. Over 90% of the population identified as Kanak in the 2014 census. There are some European mine workers and farmers, and a small number of Polynesians, and Asian from different countries.
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]  There is one boarding middle school near Poum village. The Kanak population pursue diverse subsistence activities, sometimes combined with paid work. There is one service station and store, opened in the 2010s. Tourists can stay at a western style hotel complex, the Malabou Beach hotel on Nehoue Bay, which is owned by the Northern Province corporation, Grands Hôtels - it has 35 employees. There are also two tourist cottages (Golone and Poingam), a campsite (Pagop) and home stays are also possible. Fishing is still pursued mainly by the islanders, especially from Tiabet, although commercial fish sales are affected by the long distances
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP] Saarde Parish  Saarde is a municipality located in Pärnu County, one of the 15 counties of Estonia.  Kilingi-Nõmme  Tihemetsa  Allikukivi - Ilvese - Jaamaküla - Jäärja - Kalda - Kalita - Kamali - Kanaküla - Kärsu - Kikepera - Kõveri - Lähkma - Laiksaare - Lanksaare - Leipste - Lodja - Marana - Marina - Metsaääre - Mustla - Oissaare - Pihke - Rabaküla - Reinu - Ristiküla - Saarde - Saunametsa - Sigaste - Surju - Tali - Tuuliku - Tõlla - Väljaküla - Veelikse - Viisireiu
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP] Halliste (river)  The Halliste is an -long river in Viljandi County, Estonia, and is a left tributary of the river Navesti. Its source is on the Sakala Uplands. The basin area of Halliste is 1,900 km and it has an average discharge 17.3 m³/s.
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP]
In what country is Kanaküla? [SEP] Kaniakapupu Kaniakapūpū ("the singing of the land shells"), known formerly as Luakaha ("place of relaxation"), is the ruins of the former summer palace of King Kamehameha III and Queen Kalama on the island of Oahu in Hawaii. Built in the 1840s, and situated in the cool uplands of the Nuʻuanu Valley, it served as the king and queen's summer retreat after the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii moved from Lahaina to Honolulu in 1845. It was famous for being the site of a grand luau attended by an estimated ten thousand guests during the 1847 Hawaiian Sovereignty Restoration Day
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP]  Breitenfelde is a village in the district of Lauenburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is situated near the Elbe-Lübeck Canal, approx. 5 km southwest of Mölln, and 30 km south of Lübeck. Breitenfelde is part of the Amt ("collective municipality") Breitenfelde. From November 1944 to April 1945, an external command of the Neuengamme concentration camp was housed in Breitenfelde. It comprised 20 prisoners who had to do forced labor for the SS-Bauleitung Mölln in the sawmill of the Karl Gülzow company.
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP]  Breitenfeld is a village and a former municipality in the district Altmarkkreis Salzwedel, in Saxony-Anhalt, Germany. Since 1 January 2011, it has been part of the town of Gardelegen.
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP]  Breitenfeld is a village in Germany, incorporated into the city of Leipzig since 1999. It lies 8 km north of the city centre, near the old road to Landsberg. To the south, it borders the suburbanised villages of Lindenthal and Wiederitzsch; to the north it is bordered by the autobahn A14. It was the site of the Battle of Breitenfeld (1631), an important Swedish-Protestant victory in the Thirty Years' War.
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP] 🇫🇷 Gençay, Vienne, France
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP]  The battlefield today is bisected by the A14 autobahn, which slices through the fields where the majority of the action occurred, between the original position of Tilly, at Breitenfeld, and the original positions of the Swedes and Saxons, around Podelwitz. In the eastern portion of the village of Breitenfeld stands a monument to Gustav Adolf and the victory his army accomplished there in 1631. It was erected in 1831 on the two hundredth anniversary of the battle and bears the following inscription:
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP] Breitenfelde (Amt)  Breitenfelde is an "Amt" ("collective municipality") in the district of Lauenburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. Its seat is in Mölln.  The "Amt" Breitenfelde consists of the following municipalities (population in 2005 between brackets):
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP] Breitenfelde  Breitenfelde is a village in the district of Lauenburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany. It is situated near the Elbe-Lübeck Canal, approx. 5 km southwest of Mölln, and 30 km south of Lübeck.  Breitenfelde is part of the "Amt" ("collective municipality") Breitenfelde.  From November 1944 to April 1945, an external command of the Neuengamme concentration camp was housed in Breitenfelde. It comprised 20 prisoners who had to do forced labor for the SS-Bauleitung Mölln in the sawmill of the Karl Gülzow company.
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP] Sierpowo, Pomeranian Voivodeship  Sierpowo () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czarne, within Człuchów County, Pomeranian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately south of Czarne, west of Człuchów, and south-west of the regional capital Gdańsk. It is located within the historic region of Pomerania.  The village has a population of 187.  Sierpowo was a private village within the Polish Crown, owned by various Polish nobles, administratively located in the Człuchów County in the Pomeranian Voivodeship. During World War II the Germans operated a labor camp for prisoners of war from the Stalag II-B prisoner-of-war camp in the village.  The landmark of Sierpowo is the timber framed Saint Jude Thaddeus church, built in the 17th century.
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP]
In what country is Breitenfelde? [SEP] Woltersdorf, Schleswig-Holstein  Woltersdorf is a municipality in the district of Lauenburg, in Schleswig-Holstein, Germany.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]  The population in 2011 was 118.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]  Konjsko Brdo is a village in the municipality of Perušić, Lika-Senj County, Croatia.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]  Visočica (also known as Brdo Grad  (Bosnian: Hill Town) is a 213-metre-high hill in Bosnia and Herzegovina famous as the site of the Old town of Visoki. The hill has for more than a decade been the subject of a pseudoarchaeological belief that it is part of an ancient man-made pyramid complex. This notion is rejected by Western archaeologists and geologists.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]  Brdo is a settlement in the Municipality of Slovenske Konjice in eastern Slovenia. Traditionally the entire area around Slovenske Konjice was part of Styria. It is now included in the Savinja Statistical Region.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]  Dindo is a village in the municipality of Konjic, in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina entity of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Dindo is located in a mountainous rural area in the south-eastern part of Konjic Municipality on the border with Kalinovik Municipality, which also marks the Inter-Entity Boundary Line (IEBL) between the two constituent entities of Bosnia and Herzegovina, FB&H and RS. A bridge carrying an important road across the Ljuta, a right tributary of the Neretva, was destroyed in 1995 during the last days of the Bosnian War before the signing of the Dayton Agreement. The destroyed bridge was replaced with a Bailey bridge in 2002. The work was undertaken by a Spanish Engineering Unit of SFOR based in Mostar. As well as restoring road communications the replacement of the bridge was intended to make it easier for displaced persons to return to their pre-war homes, to support agriculture and to contribute to economic prosperity in the region, encouraging trade between the two entities.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP] Konjsko Brdo  Konjsko Brdo is a village in the municipality of Perušić, Lika-Senj County, Croatia.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP] Konjsko  Konjsko is a South Slavic placename, derived from "konj" ("horse"). It may refer to:
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP]
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP] List of people by city in Croatia  This is a list of notable people who were born or have lived in various cities in Croatia.
In what country is Konjsko Brdo? [SEP] Tamnava  The Tamnava (Serbian Cyrillic: Тамнава) is a river in western Serbia. It is a -long left tributary of the Kolubara River and also gives the name to the surrounding region of Tamnava.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP]  New York State Route 155 (NY 155) is a 16.85 mi state highway located entirely within Albany County in the Capital District of New York. The western terminus of the route is at NY 85A in Voorheesville. The eastern terminus is at NY 32 in Watervliet. NY 155 mainly serves as a connection to the Albany International Airport from the major roads it connects to.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP]  New York State Route 60 (NY 60) is a north–south state highway in Chautauqua County, New York, in the United States. The southern terminus of the route is at an intersection with U.S. Route 62 (US 62) south of the city of Jamestown in the town of Kiantone. Its northern terminus is at a junction with NY 5 in the city of Dunkirk. In between, NY 60 intersects the lengthy County Route 380 (CR 380) in Kiantone and Gerry, the Southern Tier Expressway (Interstate 86 or I-86 and NY 17) in Ellicott, and the New York State Thruway (I-90) in the town of Dunkirk.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP]  155 and CR 157 cross over the New York State Thruway (I-90), and cross through another section of the Albany Pine Bush Preserve. Soon leaving the city of Albany, the routes cross into the town of Colonie after a short stint back in Guilderland. Turning further to the northeast through Colonie, NY 155 and CR 157 pass through the hamlet of Karner and cross over tracks used by Amtrak. After crossing the tracks, the road passes through a corner of the village of Colonie. The routes reach a junction with NY 5 (Central Avenue) and the surrounding commercial area. NY 155 and CR 157 along New Karner Road, a two-lane arterial. At the
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP]  NY 155 begins at a roundabout with NY 85A (Maple Road) on the eastern edge of Voorheesville in the town of New Scotland. NY 155 proceeds northeast along State Farm Road, crossing under the former railroad bed of the Albany and Susquehanna Railroad into a junction with County Route 306 (CR 306 or Voorheesville Avenue / Normanskill Road). The two lane road continues on, winding northwest through New Scotland before entering the town of Guilderland. The route passes east of the Albany Country Club before crossing the Normans Kill creek and passing a housing development. Crossing Blockhouse Creek, NY 155 reaches the hamlet of Westmere. Through Westmere, NY 155 bends northeast, crossing past the
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP]  When NY 60 was assigned in the mid-1920s, it began at the New York–Pennsylvania border southeast of Jamestown and ended at NY 5 (now US 20) in Fredonia. In between, the route passed through Frewsburg, Jamestown, and Cassadaga. From Laona to Fredonia, NY 60 was routed on Porter Avenue, Liberty Street, and Water Street. NY 60 was extended north to NY 20A (modern NY 5) in Dunkirk by way of Temple Street and Central Avenue as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York. US 62 was extended into New York c. 1932. From the Pennsylvania state line to Frewsburg, US 62 initially overlapped NY 60. The overlap was eliminated in the 1940s when NY
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP] New York State Route 157  New York State Route 157 (NY 157) is a state highway in Albany County, New York, in the United States. It runs from an intersection with NY 156 near the hamlet of Berne to a junction with NY 85 in the hamlet of New Salem. NY 157 is a two-lane, narrow, winding route that runs along an escarpment overlooking the Capital District. The route provides access to John Boyd Thacher State Park and Thompson's Lake State Park. NY 157 was assigned to its current alignment as part of the 1930 renumbering of state highways in New York.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP] New York State Route 157A  New York State Route 157A (NY 157A) is an east–west state highway located in Albany County, New York, in the United States. It serves as a loop route of NY 157 through the towns of Knox and Berne, veering a considerable distance to the south to serve the hamlet of East Berne and indirectly connect NY 157 to NY 443. NY 157A rejoins NY 157 near the access road to Thompson's Lake State Park, which is along NY 157. It is a two-lane highway its entire length. NY 157A, like its parent route, was assigned in 1930 to its current routing.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP] List of highways numbered 157  The following highways are numbered 157:
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP] New York State Route 155  New York State Route 155 (NY 155) is a state highway located entirely within Albany County in the Capital District of New York. The western terminus of the route is at NY 85A in Voorheesville. The eastern terminus is at NY 32 in Watervliet. NY 155 mainly serves as a connection to the Albany International Airport from the major roads it connects to.
In what country is New York State Route 157? [SEP] New York State Route 910D  New York State Route 910D (NY 910D) is a unsigned reference route designation for Washington Avenue Extension, a divided highway extension of Washington Avenue in Albany, New York, in the United States. The state-maintained portion of the highway begins at an intersection with NY 155 (here county-maintained as County Route 157 or CR 157) and ends just east of CR 156 (Fuller Road) at Interstate 90 (I-90) exit 2. Past I-90 and University Avenue, the highway is maintained by the city of Albany and known as Washington Avenue. Washington Avenue Extension was constructed in the late 1960s and open to traffic by 1973.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Le Moustoir are called moustoiriens in French.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]  Le Moustoir (Ar Vouster) is a commune in the Côtes-d'Armor department of Brittany in northwestern France.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Moustoir-Ac are called in French Moustoiracais.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]  Moustoir-Ac (Moustoer-Logunec'h) is a commune in the Morbihan department of Brittany in north-western France.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Moustoir-Remungol are called in French Moustoiriens.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP] Le Moustoir  Le Moustoir (; ) is a commune in the Côtes-d'Armor department of Brittany in northwestern France.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP] Stade du Moustoir  The Stade du Moustoir - Yves Allainmat, known as the Stade du Moustoir, is a multi-use stadium in Lorient, France. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of FC Lorient. The stadium can hold up to 18,110 with the new south stand.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP]
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP] Locmariaquer  Locmariaquer (; ) is a commune in the Morbihan department in Brittany in north-western France.  It lies south of Auray by road.
In what country is Le Moustoir? [SEP] Lorient  Lorient (; ) is a town ("commune") and seaport in the Morbihan department of Brittany in western France.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]  Mackay Courthouse is located at 12 Brisbane Street, Mackay in Queensland, Australia. The complex contains the current and former courthouses as well as police residences and other police buildings.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]  The courthouse was constructed during the Great Depression as part of a government initiated works scheme to alleviate unemployment. It was completed in 1939. The courthouse was designed by the Queensland Chief Architect AB Leven in the Georgian revival style. The building underwent a major refurbishment in 2003. Four new courtrooms, judicial chambers, jury facilities, interview rooms, vulnerable witness room, public waiting areas and a lift were added.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]  Mackay Court House and Police Station is a heritage-listed courthouse and police station at 67 Victoria Street and (on the same block) 14 Brisbane Street, Mackay, Mackay Region, Queensland, Australia. They were built from 1886 to 1963. It is also known as Mackay Court House and Mackay Police Station. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]  Georgian Revival style. The Mackay Court House is amongst the grandest of these buildings with handsome internal detailing including panelled offices. The Court was also designed to accommodate other important government functions such as the office of the Lands Commissioner. The foundation stone was laid on 31 March 1938 by Premier Forgan Smith. The new court house addressed Victoria Street where the first police lock-up had been and thus provided the main street with an imposing public building. The old court house became a police station after the court moved to its new premises effecting a reversal of zones
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]  centres where substantial new court houses were erected. In 1884 contracts for a new court house were prepared following the construction of new police stables and lock-up keeper's quarters. The new court house was designed by noted architect John James Clark, who was at the time Queensland Colonial Architect. Clark was born and trained in Liverpool, England. He arrived in Melbourne in 1853 and won a number of architectural competitions, his success in such competitions being a feature of his career. He designed some major public buildings in Melbourne, including the Treasury. He moved to Sydney in 1881 and in
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP] Mackay Court House and Police Station  Mackay Court House and Police Station is a heritage-listed courthouse and police station at 67 Victoria Street and (on the same block) 14 Brisbane Street, Mackay, Mackay Region, Queensland, Australia. They were built from 1886 to 1963. It is also known as Mackay Court House and Mackay Police Station. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP] Mackay Courthouse  Mackay Courthouse is located at 12 Brisbane Street, Mackay in Queensland, Australia.  The complex contains the current and former courthouses as well as police residences and other police buildings.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP] List of courthouses  This is a list of notable courthouses. These are buildings that have primarily been used to host a court. In some countries, "courthouse" is not the term used, instead the term for the building is simply "court". Courthouses have often been designed to be architecturally grand or imposing.
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]
In what country is Mackay Courthouse? [SEP]
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]  Angresse (Angressa) is a commune of the Landes department in Nouvelle-Aquitaine in southwestern France.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]  Adélie Land (Terre Adélie, ) is a claimed territory on the continent of Antarctica. It stretches from a portion of the Southern Ocean coastline all the way inland to the South Pole. France has administered it as one of five districts of the French Southern and Antarctic Lands since 1955 and applied the Antarctic Treaty System rules since 1961. Article 4 deals with territorial claims, and although it does not renounce or diminish any preexisting claims to sovereignty, it also does not prejudice the position of Contracting Parties in their recognition or non-recognition of territorial sovereignty. France has had a permanent station in Adélie Land since April 9, 1950. The current Dumont d'Urville Station has a winter population around 25, but this goes up to about 78 during the Antarctic summer. A species of penguin was named after it, called the Adelie Penguin.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]  Les Landes is an area of coastal heathland in the north-west of Jersey. It has been designated as a Site of Special Interest (SSI) since 1996. The site is the largest of its kind in Jersey at 160 ha.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP] 1) Adélie Land (Terre Adélie), the French claim on the continent of Antarctica. ; 2) Crozet Islands (Îles Crozet), a group in the southern Indian Ocean, south of Madagascar. ; 3) Kerguelen Islands (Archipel des Kerguelen), a group of volcanic islands in the southern Indian Ocean, southeast of Africa, approximately equidistant between Africa, Antarctica and Australia. ; 4) Saint Paul and Amsterdam Islands (Îles Saint Paul et Amsterdam), a group to the north of the Kerguelen Islands. ; 5) The Scattered Islands (Îles Éparses), a dispersed group of islands around the coast of Madagascar. The French Southern and Antarctic Lands (Terres australes et antarctiques françaises, TAAF) is an Overseas Territory
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]  the hills of the Perche country to the south and the Pays d'Auge a few kilometres to the west. The landscape is made up of fields, pastures, orchards and woods. These are sometimes separated by hedges, mostly hawthorn or blackthorn (sloe). The territory of the commune is crossed by two dry valleys: Since the middle of the 1980s, an underground drain has run down the middle of this valley. Regularly, every year after thunder storms, water runs in these two dry river valleys for a few hours, up to a few days sometimes. During a very rainy episode at the beginning of 2001 (floods in the Somme), for several months rivers ran down the dry valleys to the east of town as well.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP] Landresse  Landresse () is a commune in the Doubs department in the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region in eastern France.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]
In what country is Landresse? [SEP] Arte da Lingoa de Iapam  The Art of the Japanese Language ( and in modern Portuguese: ""; , "Nihon Daibunten") is an early 17th-century Portuguese grammar of the Japanese language. It was compiled by João Rodrigues, a Portuguese Jesuit missionary. It is the oldest fully extant Japanese grammar and is a valuable reference for the late middle period of the Japanese language.
In what country is Landresse? [SEP]
In what country is Landresse? [SEP] Copenhagen Airport  Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup (, ; ) is an international airport serving Copenhagen, Denmark, Zealand, the Øresund Region, and southern Sweden including Scania. It is the second largest airport in the Nordic countries.  As of 2019, the airport was the largest airport in the Nordic countries with close to 30.3 million passengers. It is one of the oldest international airports in Europe, the fourth-busiest airport in Northern Europe, and the busiest for international travel in Scandinavia.<ref>http://www.cph.dk/en/about-cph/investor/traffic-statistics/cph-more-than-24-million-travellers-in-2013-a-new-record/  – total passengers 2013 was 24,067,030 of them were 22,164,738; Stockholm Arlanda had 20,7 million passengers in total in 2013, but around a third are usually domestic; – Oslo Gardemoen had 23,159,233 passengers in 2013. But here is usually less than half international</ref>  The airport is on the island of Amager, south of Copenhagen city centre, and west of Malmö city centre, to which it is connected by the Øresund Bridge. The airport covers an area of . Most of the airport is in the municipality of Tårnby, with a small part in the city of Dragør.  The airport is the main hub out of three used by Scandinavian Airlines and is also an operating base for Sunclass Airlines and Norwegian Air Shuttle. Copenhagen Airport handles around 60 scheduled airlines, and has a maximum operation capability of 83 operations/hour, and a total of 108 jet bridges and remote parking stands. Unlike other Scandinavian airports, most of the airport's passengers are international. In 2015, 6.1% of passengers travelled to and from other Danish airports, 83.5% to/from other European airports, and 10.4% were intercontinental passengers. The airport is owned by Københavns Lufthavne, which also operates Roskilde Airport. The airport employs 1,700 people (not including employees in shops, restaurants, etc.).  Copenhagen Airport was originally called Kastrup Airport, after the small town of Kastrup, now part of the Tårnby municipality. The formal name is still Copenhagen Airport, Kastrup, to distinguish it from Roskilde Airport.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP]  Expeditie Robinson is a popular reality television program in the Netherlands and Flanders (Belgium) that debuted in 2000. It was the second production worldwide of a format first shown in Swedish TV in 1997. The format, most notable under the title Survivor, has since then also been produced in many other countries. The name of the show alludes to Robinson Crusoe, a story featuring people marooned by shipwreck. The fifteenth season in 2013 was the first season without contestants from Belgium, due to lack of television ratings in Belgium. However, the Flemish host Evi Hanssen would continue to co-host the show with Dutch host Dennis Weening. In 2014 Evi was replaced by Nicolette Kluijver.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP]  Madubuko A. Robinson Diakité (born 17 December 1940) is a U.S.-born human rights lawyer and documentary filmmaker currently residing in Sweden. He has traveled widely throughout Africa and currently freelances as a guest lecturer and consultant on African migration, the African diaspora, human rights law, film history and mass media.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP]  Robinsonekspedisjonen is a popular Norwegian reality television program debuting in 1999. In the fall of 1998 TV3 purchased the broadcast rights to air their own version of Expedition Robinson. Norway was one of the first countries to adopt the Robinson format following its success in both Sweden and Denmark. While it has never achieved as high of ratings as that of Denmark and Sweden's versions of the show, it is still considered a ratings success. The name alludes to both Robinson Crusoe and The Swiss Family Robinson, two stories featuring people marooned by shipwrecks. Following a two year hiatus after the VIP season with Denmark and Sweden, Robinsonekspedisjonen returned in 2007 and has seen a season over season ratings growth since.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP]  Robinson was born in Northampton, UK in 1956 and was educated at Wellingborough School before completing a degree in Geography at Magdalene College, Cambridge University in 1978. He married Dara Beard in 1979. They have two sons: Phillip (1989) and Tim (1994). In 1995 the family moved to Toronto Canada and became Canadian citizens.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP]  Psychiana burgeoned during the Great Depression, but Robinson offended many of his contemporaries, not only by the "businesslike" nature of Psychiana, but also with his harsh criticisms of conventional Christianity. Deportation proceedings were initiated against him in a federal court in Idaho, his opponents claiming that he was a foreign national illegally residing in the United States. During the trial, Robinson contended that although he had been raised in England, he had been born in New York City while his father was visiting the U.S., and was therefore a U.S. citizen. Nonetheless he was ordered to leave the country. Robinson traveled to Cuba, where he stayed briefly while Idaho
In what country is Robinson? [SEP] Robinson Crusoe  Robinson Crusoe () is a novel by Daniel Defoe, first published on 25 April 1719. The first edition credited the work's protagonist Robinson Crusoe as its author, leading many readers to believe he was a real person and the book a travelogue of true incidents.  Epistolary, confessional, and didactic in form, the book is presented as an autobiography of the title character (whose birth name is Robinson Kreutznaer) – a castaway who spends 28 years on a remote tropical desert island near the coasts of Venezuela and Trinidad, roughly resembling Tobago, encountering cannibals, captives, and mutineers before being rescued. The story has been thought to be based on the life of Alexander Selkirk, a Scottish castaway who lived for four years on a Pacific island called "Más a Tierra" (now part of Chile) which was renamed Robinson Crusoe Island in 1966.  Despite its simple narrative style, "Robinson Crusoe" was well received in the literary world and is often credited as marking the beginning of realistic fiction as a literary genre. It is generally seen as a contender for the first English novel. Before the end of 1719, the book had already run through four editions, and it has gone on to become one of the most widely published books in history, spawning so many imitations, not only in literature but also in film, television, and radio, that its name is used to define a genre, the Robinsonade. A film based on the same name was released.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP] Robinson (TV series)  Robinson, formerly Expedition Robinson, is a Swedish reality game show and the original version of the international "Survivor" format.  The television show places a group of strangers in an isolated location, where they must provide food, fire, and shelter for themselves. They are initially divided into two tribes. The contestants compete in challenges for rewards and immunity from elimination. The remaining contestants are eventually merged into a single tribe. The contestants are progressively eliminated from the game as they are voted out by their fellow contestants or, as may be the result after the merge, lose an immunity challenge until only one remains and is awarded the grand prize.  The format was developed in 1994 by Charlie Parsons for a United Kingdom TV production company called Planet 24, but the Swedish debut in 1997 was the first production to actually make it to television.<ref name=bbc /> The show was a success, and plans for international versions were made. An American version called "Survivor" started in 2000.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP] Robinson Crusoe Island  Robinson Crusoe Island (, ), formerly known as Más a Tierra (), is the second largest of the Juan Fernández Islands, situated 670 km (362 nmi; 416 mi) west of San Antonio, Chile, in the South Pacific Ocean. It is the more populous of the inhabited islands in the archipelago (the other being Alejandro Selkirk Island), with most of that in the town of San Juan Bautista at Cumberland Bay on the island's north coast.  From 1704 to 1709, the island was home to the marooned sailor Alexander Selkirk, who at least partially inspired novelist Daniel Defoe's fictional Robinson Crusoe in his 1719 novel, although the novel is explicitly set in the Caribbean. This was just one of several survival stories from the period of which Defoe would have been aware. To reflect the literary lore associated with the island and attract tourists, the Chilean government renamed the place Robinson Crusoe Island in 1966.<ref name=severin2002/>
In what country is Robinson? [SEP] Betty Jean Robinson  Betty Jean Robinson (born Betty Jean Rhodes; June 17, 1933 - November 25, 2021) was a Christian music singer and songwriter.
In what country is Robinson? [SEP] Why Nations Fail  Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty, first published in 2012, is a book by economists Daron Acemoglu and James A. Robinson. The book applies insights from institutional economics, development economics and economic history to understand why nations develop differently, with some succeeding in the accumulation of power and prosperity and others failing, via a wide range of historical case studies.  The authors also maintain a website (with a blog inactive since 2014) about the ongoing discussion of the book.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP]  The Lambertz Open by STAWAG is a tennis tournament held in Aachen, Germany since 1991. The event is part of the ''ATP challenger series and is played on indoor carpet courts.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP]  The 2010 Lambertz Open by STAWAG was a professional tennis tournament played on carpet. It was the 20th edition of the tournament which is part of the 2010 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Aachen, Germany between 8 and 14 November 2010.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP]  The 2009 Lambertz Open by STAWAG was a professional tennis tournament played on indoor carpet courts. It was the nineteenth edition of the tournament which was part of the 2009 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Aachen, Germany between 9 and 15 November 2009.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] Rankings are as of November 2, 2009.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] Rankings are as of November 1, 2010.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] Lambertz Open by STAWAG  The Lambertz Open by STAWAG is a tennis tournament held in Aachen, Germany since 1991. The event is part of the "ATP challenger series and is played on indoor carpet courts.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] 2010 Lambertz Open by STAWAG  The 2010 Lambertz Open by STAWAG was a professional tennis tournament played on carpet. It was the 20th edition of the tournament which is part of the 2010 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Aachen, Germany between 8 and 14 November 2010.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] 2009 Lambertz Open by STAWAG  The 2009 Lambertz Open by STAWAG was a professional tennis tournament played on indoor carpet courts. It was the nineteenth edition of the tournament which was part of the 2009 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place in Aachen, Germany between 9 and 15 November 2009.
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP]
In what country is Lambertz Open by STAWAG? [SEP] 2009 Lambertz Open by STAWAG – Singles  Evgeny Korolev, who was the defending champion, chose to not compete this year. Rajeev Ram won in the final match 7–6(2), 6–7(5), 7–6(2), against Dustin Brown.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]  Göreme, located among the "fairy chimney" rock formations, is a town in Cappadocia, a historical region of Turkey. It is in the Nevşehir Province in Central Anatolia and has a population of around 2,000 people. Former names of the town have been Korama, Matiana, Maccan or Machan, and Avcilar. When Göreme Valley nearby was designated an important tourist destination, a "center" for all tourism in Cappadocia, the name of the town was changed to Göreme for practical reasons. Among Göreme's historically important sites are the Bezirhane, Durmus Kadir, Ortahane, and Yusuf Koç churches, in addition to the richly decorated Tokali Kilise, the Apple Church, and a number of homes and pigeon houses carved into the rock formations in the town.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]  Göreme is a district of the Nevşehir Province in Turkey. After the eruption of Mount Erciyes about 2.6 million years ago, ash and lava formed soft rocks in the Cappadocia Region, covering a region of about 20000 km2. The softer rock was eroded by wind and water, leaving the hard cap rock on top of pillars, forming the present-day fairy chimneys. People of Göreme, at the heart of the Cappadocia Region, realized that these soft rocks could be easily carved out to form houses, churches, and monasteries. These Christian sanctuaries contain many examples of Byzantine art from the post-iconoclastic period. These frescos are a unique artistic achievement from this period. In the 4th century, small
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]  In modern times, Göreme is most well known for tourism offerings such as Hot Air Balloon rides, ATV rentals and tours, and guided regional tour buses.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]  Goreme is a village in Strumyani Municipality, in Blagoevgrad Province, in southwestern Bulgaria.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]  The Göreme National Park was added to the UNESCO World Heritage List in 1985.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP]
In what country is Goreme? [SEP] Cappadocia  Cappadocia or Capadocia (; ), is a historical region in Central Anatolia, Turkey. It largely is in the provinces Nevşehir, Kayseri, Aksaray, Kırşehir, Sivas and Niğde.  According to Herodotus, in the time of the Ionian Revolt (499 BC), the Cappadocians were reported as occupying a region from Mount Taurus to the vicinity of the Euxine (Black Sea). Cappadocia, in this sense, was bounded in the south by the chain of the Taurus Mountains that separate it from Cilicia, to the east by the upper Euphrates, to the north by Pontus, and to the west by Lycaonia and eastern Galatia.<ref name="books.google.com"> Van Dam, R. "Kingdom of Snow: Roman rule and Greek culture in Cappadocia." Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2002, p.13. </ref>  The name, traditionally used in Christian sources throughout history, continues in use as an international tourism concept to define a region of exceptional natural wonders, in particular characterized by fairy chimneys and a unique historical and cultural heritage.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP] Goreme, Bulgaria  Goreme is a village in Strumyani Municipality, in Blagoevgrad Province, in southwestern Bulgaria.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP] Kayseri  Kayseri (; ) is a large industrialised city in Central Anatolia, Turkey, and the capital of Kayseri province. The Kayseri Metropolitan Municipality area is composed of five districts: the two central districts of Kocasinan and Melikgazi, and since 2004, also outlying Hacılar, İncesu and Talas.  As of 31 December 2021, the province had a population of 1,434,357 of whom 1,175,886 live in the four urban districts, excluding İncesu which is not conurbated (i.e. not contiguous, having a largely non-protected buffer zone).  Kayseri sits at the foot of Mount Erciyes (Turkish: Erciyes Dağı), a dormant volcano that reaches an altitude of , more than 1,500 metres above the city's mean altitude. It contains a number of historic monuments, particularly from the Seljuk period. Tourists often pass through Kayseri en route to the attractions of Cappadocia to the west.   Kayseri is served by Erkilet International Airport and is home to Erciyes University.
In what country is Goreme? [SEP] Cappadocian Greeks  Cappadocian Greeks also known as Greek Cappadocians (; ) or simply Cappadocians are an ethnic Greek community native to the geographical region of Cappadocia in central-eastern Anatolia, and the indigenous populations of Cappadocia, some of whose Indo-European languages may have been closely related to Greek, (cf. Phrygian) became entirely Greek-speaking by at least the 5th century. In the 11th century Seljuq Turks arriving from Central Asia conquered the region, beginning its gradual shift in language and religion. According to 1897 estimations, the sanjak of Konya had a total Greek population of 68,101 and according to Ottoman population statistics of 1914, the sanjak of Niğde had a total Greek population of 58,312 and the sanjak of Kayseri had a total of 26,590. In 1923 following the genocide of the minorities of Turkey the surviving Cappadocian Greek native communities were forced to leave their homeland and resettle in Greece by the terms of the Greek–Turkish population exchange. Today their descendants can be found throughout Greece and the Greek diaspora worldwide.
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]  Gawarzec Dolny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, within Płońsk County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 7 km north-west of Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, 25 km south of Płońsk, and 57 km north-west of Warsaw.
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]  Gawarzec Górny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, within Płońsk County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north-west of Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, 26 km south of Płońsk, and 56 km north-west of Warsaw.
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP] 🇵🇱 Szklarska Poręba (Poland) ; 🇭🇺 Hortobágy (Hungary) ; 🇩🇪 Staufen im Breisgau (Germany) ; 🇩🇪 Berlin-Steglitz (Germany) ; 🇳🇿 Pahiatua (New Zealand) Kazimierz Dolny is twinned with:
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP] 🇵🇱 Buczkowice, Poland ; 🇵🇱 Mucharz, Poland ; 🇸🇰 Ochodnica, Slovakia 🇸🇮 Brežice, Slovenia ; 🇨🇿 Dobřany, Czech Republic ; 🇩🇪 Obertraubling, Germany 🇸🇰 Zábiedovo, Slovakia 🇺🇸 Manhattan, United States ; 🇫🇷 Villieu-Loyes-Mollon, France Geldrop-Mierlo, Netherlands ; 🇫🇷 Tonnerre, France Bellmund, Switzerland 🇭🇺 Ábrahámhegy, Hungary ; 🇸🇰 Hnúšťa, Slovakia ; 🇵🇱 Miejska Górka, Poland ; 🇵🇱 Piława Górna, Poland ; 🇵🇱 Radków, Poland ; 🇸🇰 Veľký Meder, Slovakia 🇵🇱 Bolków, Poland ; 🇩🇪 Oybin, Germany 🇮🇹 Ledro, Italy 🇸🇰 Kamenec pod Vtáčnikom, Slovakia 🇸🇰 Rajecké Teplice, Slovakia ; 🇵🇱 Wilamowice, Poland Kallnach, Switzerland 🇵🇱 Dzierżoniów, Poland ; 🇸🇰 Liptovská Teplička, Slovakia 🇮🇹 Rovereto, Italy 🇵🇱 Strumień, Poland 🇫🇷 Azay-le-Brûlé, France ; 🇮🇹 Caprese Michelangelo, Italy 🇵🇱 Godów, Poland ; 🇵🇱 Gorzyce, Poland 🇸🇰 Myjava, Slovakia 🇩🇪 Sebnitz, Germany 🇦🇹 Furth bei Göttweig, Austria ; 🇩🇪 Furth im Wald, Germany ; 🇫🇷 Ludres, France ; 🇺🇸 Two Rivers, United States Dobrá  Dobřany  Dobratice Dobřichovice  Dobříš  Dobronín Dobruška  Doksy (Česká Lípa District)  Doksy (Kladno District) Dolní Bečva Dolní Benešov  Dolní Bukovsko Dolní Čermná  Dolní Dobrouč Dolní Domaslavice Dolní Kounice  Dolní Lutyně  Dolní Němčí Dolní Poustevna Domažlice
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]  Gawrony is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Dolsk, within Śrem County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north of Dolsk, 6 km south of Śrem, and 42 km south of the regional capital Poznań. The village has a population of 70.
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP] Gawarzec Dolny  Gawarzec Dolny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, within Płońsk County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately north-west of Czerwińsk nad Wisłą, south of Płońsk, and north-west of Warsaw.
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]
In what country is Gawarzec Dolny? [SEP]
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]  Studzianka is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Krynki, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]  Studzianka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Łomazy, within Biała Podlaska County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north-east of Łomazy, 14 km south-east of Biała Podlaska, and 89 km north-east of the regional capital Lublin.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]  Studzianka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Gizałki, within Pleszew County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]  Studzianka (Wonneberg) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Jeziorany, within Olsztyn County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland. It lies approximately 9 km west of Jeziorany and 20 km north of the regional capital Olsztyn. The village has a population of 400.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]  Studzianki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wasilków, within Białystok County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 6 km north-east of Wasilków and 15 km north-east of the regional capitol Białystok. The village has a population of 900.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP] Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship  Studzianka is a settlement in the administrative district of Gmina Krynki, within Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, close to the border with Belarus.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP] Studzianka  Studzianka may refer to the following places:
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP] Gmina Krynki  Gmina Krynki is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Sokółka County, Podlaskie Voivodeship, in north-eastern Poland, on the border with Belarus. Its seat is the town of Krynki, which lies approximately south-east of Sokółka and east of the regional capital Białystok. (Krynki gained town status on 1 January 2009 – prior to that the district was classed as a rural gmina.)  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 3,423, out of which the population of Krynki is 2,709.  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Knyszyń Forest Landscape Park.
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP]
In what country is Studzianka, Podlaskie Voivodeship? [SEP] Krzewica, Biała Podlaska County Krzewica () is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Międzyrzec Podlaski, within Biała Podlaska County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. It lies approximately north-west of Międzyrzec Podlaski, west of Biała Podlaska, and north of the regional capital Lublin. The village has a population of 350. The village has a Publiczne Gimnazjum Nr.2 im. Adama Mickiewicza, the church dedicated to Our Lady of Mount Caramel and promote CSR shed from the wedding hall. Near the village were to promote a military airport In the years 1975-1998 the village belonged administratively to the province Biata. City
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]  Rosporden (Rosporden) is a commune in the Finistère department of Brittany in north-western France. The small city specializes in the manufacture of "chouchen", a version of mead native to Brittany, and is known as the Capital of Chouchen.
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Rosporden are called in French Rospordinois.
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]  After the death of Rost Onnes's wife, Meta Dorothea Ludmilla Koenig, he sold the 40-hectare estate in 1952 to the Noord-Nederlandse Golf & Country Club. This golf club was founded in 1950 and initially played at a field near Eelde Airport. These 60 hectares are bordered on the east by two nature reserves: 'Westerlanden' and 'Besloten Venen', and on the west by the Drentsche Aa and an old railway from 1871. The course, initially 9 holes, on the De Poll estate was designed by Sir Guy Campbell and opened in 1954. This took up 42 ha. The golf club subsequently converted the site into a golf course
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]  De Karpendonkse Hoeve is a restaurant located in Eindhoven in the Netherlands. It is a fine dining restaurant that has been awarded one Michelin star every year since 1979. Head chef is Peter Koehn. In 1980, Koehn took over from Peter Willems, who had earned the Michelin star in 1979. In September 2017, Koehn announced his upcoming retirement and that the second head chef Rob van der Veeken would take over. Present owner is Ingrid van Eeghem. In 2004 she took over the ownership of her father Leo van Eeghem, who had founded the restaurant in 1973. Van Eeghen regularly invites other chefs to show off their cooking qualities. Guest chefs include Paula DaSilva, runner up of Hell's Kitchen (U.S. season 5) and the Japanese chef Katsumasa Kitajima, known for kaiseki ryōri cuisine. In 2007, De Karpendonkse Hoeve celebrated their 30th Michelin star in a row and in 2014 their 35th.
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]  Dutch guitarist Ferdi Lancee (real name: Ferdy Dousenbach, born October 21, 1953 in Tilburg) and saxophone player Barend Fransen (born January 4, 1959 in Helmond) started working together in 2001, when they started writing lounge music in Belgium. They signed a record deal with Play It Again Sam Records in Brussels, and released the albums (In Search Of) Excellounge (2001) and Kind Of Cool (2002). Several songs are used in the soundtracks of the series Six Feet Under and the movie Ghost Rider (2007). In 2003, Gare du Nord toured the Netherlands and Russia with a newly formed band containing nine musicians. Their third album Club Gare du Nord (2005) was recorded in their own Cell4-Studio in the Netherlands. French Jazz trumpet player Erik Truffaz and the gospel singers of the American Imani Fellowship Choir contributed to the album. Around that date (2005), Barend Fransen left his job as president of Dutch record store chain "Van Leest" to spend more time on the band .
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP] Rosporden station  Rosporden is a railway station in Rosporden, Brittany, France. The station was opened on 7 September 1863, and is located on the Savenay–Landerneau railway. Today, the station is served by TGV (high speed) and TER (local) services operated by the SNCF.
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP]
In what country is Gare de Rosporden? [SEP] List of TGV stations  These are all the TGV (, meaning "high-speed train") stations, listed alphabetically. This list includes new stations constructed specifically for the TGV as well as existing stations that are simply served by the trains.  Stations located in countries other than France are marked with the country in parentheses.
In what country is Earl? [SEP]  Ben Earl (born 7 January 1998 in Redhill, Surrey, England) is an England international rugby union player for Premiership Rugby side Saracens. Earl plays in the back-row. He gained his first England cap during the 2020 Six Nations, Calcutta Cup, match between Scotland and England at Murrayfield on 8 February 2020 in Edinburgh, Scotland.
In what country is Earl? [SEP]  Earl was born Kenneth Clifford Earl on 29 August 1933 in Romney Marsh, Kent, England. After leaving the military, he embarked on an acting career, and often found himself playing policemen and soldiers.
In what country is Earl? [SEP] "Big" Earl, fictional alien in the video game ToeJam & Earl and its sequels ; Earl, fictional character in the animated TV series Rocko's Modern Life ; Earl Abell (1892–1956), American football player ; Earl E. Anderson (1919–2015), American general ; Earl Anthony (1938–2001), American professional bowler ; Earl Armstrong (1900–1986), Canadian politician ; Earl I. Anzai (born 1941), American politician ; Earl Averill (1902–1983), professional baseball player ; Earl Edwin Austin, American criminal ; Earl Babbie (born 1938), American sociologist ; Earl Bakken (1924–2018), American inventor of the transistorized pacemaker ; Earl Balfour (1933–2018), Canadian professional ice hockey player ; Earl Balmer (1935–2019),
In what country is Earl? [SEP]  Kenneth John Earl (10 November 1925 – 13 October 1986) was an English cricketer. Earl was a right-handed batsman who bowled right-arm fast-medium. He was born in Low Fell, Gateshead, County Durham. Earl was married to Barbara and had two sons, Alex (b1977) and James (b1982). Alex lives in Alberta, Canada, and James in Yorkshire, England.
In what country is Earl? [SEP]  Earl started his playing career at Sevenoaks Rugby and came through the Saracens academy, and played for England at under-16, under-18 and under-20 level (where he also captained). He has said he prefers the freedom of playing flanker, but also plays Number 8. In May 2018 Earl was selected in England's 34 man squad for their tour to South Africa. In January 2019, Earl was included as part of the 35-man England squad for the 2019 Six Nations. He was called up again for the 2020 Six Nations Championship. He agreed a new contract with Saracens in 2020 which would see him spend one season on loan to Bristol Bears along with teammate Max Malins.
In what country is Earl? [SEP] Earl Thomas Conley  Earl Thomas Conley (October 17, 1941 – April 10, 2019) was an American country music singer-songwriter. Between 1980 and 2003, he recorded ten studio albums, including seven for RCA Records. In the 1980s and into the 1990s, Conley also charted more than thirty singles on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs chart, of which eighteen reached Number One. His eighteen "Billboard" Number One country singles during the 1980s were the third most by any artist in any genre during that decade, after Alabama and Ronnie Milsap.<ref name="encyclopedia"/>
In what country is Earl? [SEP]
In what country is Earl? [SEP] Goodbye Earl  "Goodbye Earl", written by Dennis Linde, is a country music song. Initially recorded by the band Sons of the Desert for an unreleased album in the late 1990s, the song gained fame when it was recorded by Dixie Chicks on their fifth studio album, "Fly". After charting from unsolicited airplay in late 1999, the song was released as that album's third single in 2000, peaking at #13 on "Billboard's" Hot Country Singles & Tracks (now Hot Country Songs) charts. The CD single includes a 'B-Side' cover of "Stand By Your Man" by Tammy Wynette. In 2021, it was listed at No. 469 on Rolling Stone's "Top 500 Best Songs of All Time".
In what country is Earl? [SEP] Flatt and Scruggs  Flatt and Scruggs were an American bluegrass duo. Singer and guitarist Lester Flatt and banjo player Earl Scruggs, both of whom had been members of Bill Monroe's band, the Bluegrass Boys, from 1945 to 1948, formed the duo in 1948. Flatt and Scruggs are viewed by music historians as one of the premier bluegrass groups in the history of the genre.   Flatt and Scruggs recorded and performed together until 1969.<ref name=ecm /> Their backing band, the Foggy Mountain Boys, included fiddle player Paul Warren, a master player in both the old-time and bluegrass fiddling styles whose technique reflected all qualitative aspects of "the bluegrass breakdown" and fast bowing style; dobro player Uncle Josh Graves, an innovator of the advanced playing style of the instrument now used in the genre; stand-up bass player Cousin Jake Tullock; and mandolinist Curly Seckler.<ref name=ecm />
In what country is Earl? [SEP] Earl  Earl () is a rank of the nobility in the United Kingdom. The title originates in the Old English word "eorl", meaning "a man of noble birth or rank". The word is cognate with the Scandinavian form "jarl", and meant "chieftain", particularly a chieftain set to rule a territory in a king's stead. After the Norman Conquest, it became the equivalent of the continental count (in England in the earlier period, it was more akin to a duke; in Scotland, it assimilated the concept of mormaer). Alternative names for the rank equivalent to "earl" or "count" in the nobility structure are used in other countries, such as the "hakushaku" (伯爵) of the post-restoration Japanese Imperial era.  In modern Britain, an earl is a member of the peerage, ranking below a marquess and above a viscount. A feminine form of "earl" never developed; instead, "countess" is used.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]  Donji Milanovac is a town in eastern Serbia. It is situated in the Majdanpek municipality, in the Bor District. It is located on the right bank of Lake Đerdap on the Danube. The population of the town is 2,410 people (2011 census). Its name means "Lower Milanovac" (there is an Upper Milanovac, as well). The management office of Đerdap national park is located in the town. It has been nicknamed a "town of 100,000 roses".
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]  Matejić was born in Smederevo in what was then the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (today Serbia) and educated there. As a seminarian at Bitola during the Axis occupation of Yugoslavia, he left the country and completed his seminary education in a displaced persons camp in Eboli, Italy. In 1949, at another camp in West Germany, he married Ljubica Nebrigić of Srem (who preceded him in death on 17 April 2016). He was ordained as a Serbian Orthodox priest in a camp in 1951. He and his young family emigrated to the United States in 1956. As a priest, he founded two parishes and encouraged and physically contributed to the building of two places of worship, the Church of St. George in Monroe, Michigan (where he served from 1956 to 1967), and the Church of St. Stevan of Dečani in Columbus, Ohio (where he served from 1967 until
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]  Donji Banjevac (Cyrillic: Доњи Бањевац) is a village in the municipality of Kakanj, Bosnia and Herzegovina.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]  Mate was born in Čakovec, Croatia, (then part of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) to Croatian parents. He spent his childhood in the city of Maribor in eastern Slovenia, where his parents moved for professional reasons. He graduated from the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of Ljubljana. In 1989 he started working as a high school teacher at the Poljane Grammar School in Ljubljana. In 1990, after the victory of the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia in the first free elections in Slovenia, he got employed at the Slovenian Ministry of Defence. He became head of the department of Civil Protection at the ministry, later moving to the counter-intelligence section. He participated in the Slovenian Independence War of June 1991. In 1992, he became
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]  Matejić was born in Kovačica, Vojvodina, in what was then the Republic of Serbia in the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. He holds a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Belgrade Faculty of Law and is a lawyer by profession. He lives in the village of Crepaja in Kovačica.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP] Donji Matejevac  Donji Matejevac is a village situated in Niš municipality in Serbia.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP] Grigorije the Serb  Grigorije the Serb (Kožin, Trn, then Ottoman Empire, now North Macedonia, c. 1780 — Niš, Principality of Serbia, October 18, 1842) was the archbishop and metropolitan of Niš and the first Serbian hierarch in Niš after the abolition of the Patriarchate of Peć in 1766.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP] Pantelej  Pantelej (Serbian Cyrillic: Пантелеј) is one of five city municipalities which constitute the city of Niš. According to the 2011 census, the municipality has a population of 53,486 inhabitants.
In what country is Donji Matejevac? [SEP]
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP]  Rozgonyi has visited over fifty countries, including most recently India, Cambodia, Thailand, Myanmar, Hungary, The Czech Republic, Slovakia, Croatia, Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Germany (2006–2007); and Russia, Ukraine, Albania, Macedonia, Serbia (2008), Romania, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Kosovo (2009). He prefers backpacking, walking, motorcycling, or his vintage Volkswagen bus for transport, and has lived locally among the residents of many countries during his visits.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP]  Rozbrat is a long-running anarchist social centre in Jeżyce in Poznań, Poland.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP] 🇷🇸 Bačka Topola, Serbia ; 🇨🇿 Český Těšín, Czech Republic ; 🇵🇱 Cieszyn, Poland ; 🇭🇺 Lipótváros (Budapest), Hungary ; 🇭🇺 Szerencs, Hungary Rožňava is twinned with:
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP]  Rosochate (Розсохате, Rozsokhate) is a former village in the administrative district of Gmina Czarna, within Bieszczady County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland, close to the border with Ukraine. It lies approximately 7 km south-west of Czarna, 18 km south of Ustrzyki Dolne, and 95 km south-east of the regional capital Rzeszów.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP] 🇩🇪 Bergen, Germany ; 🇭🇺 Körmend, Hungary ; 🇸🇰 Považská Bystrica, Slovakia ; 🇵🇱 Śrem, Poland Rožnov pod Radhoštěm is twinned with:
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP] Rozsochatec  Rozsochatec is a municipality and village in Havlíčkův Brod District in the Vysočina Region of the Czech Republic. It has about 500 inhabitants.  Rozsochatec lies approximately north-east of Havlíčkův Brod, north of Jihlava, and south-east of Prague.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP] List of German names for places in the Czech Republic  The names of places in what is today the Czech Republic have evolved during their history. The list concerns primarily the settlements, but bilingual names for significant mountains and rivers are also listed. Places are sorted alphabetically according to their German names.  Many of the German names are now exonyms, but used to be endonyms commonly used by the local German population, who had lived in many of these places until shortly after World War II.  Until 1866, the only official language of the Austrian Empire administration was German. Some place names were merely "Germanized" versions of the original Czech names, as seen e.g. from their etymology. The compromise of 1867 marked a recognition of the need for bilingualism in areas where an important portion of the population used another language; the procedure was imposed by official instructions in 1871.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP]
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP] List of municipalities in the Czech Republic  List of municipalities of the Czech Republic, located in Central Europe.
In what country is Rozsochatec? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP]  Benjamin Franklin, Jr. is a 1943 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Herbert Glazer. It was the 211th Our Gang short (212th episode, 123rd talking short, 124th talking episode, and 43rd MGM produced episode) that was released.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP]  Benjamin Franklin is a 2002 American documentary television series which premiered November 19–20, 2002 and reairs on August 22–September 5, 2005. The series was produced by Twin Cities Public Television of Minneapolis-St. Paul. Benjamin Franklin won an Emmy for Outstanding Nonfiction Special (Traditional) in 2003. Executive producers Catherine Allan and Jerry Richman accepted the award.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP]  role on the original Broadway cast recording (Da Silva was finally able to record the role when 1776 was filmed in 1972). When 1776 was revived on Broadway in 1997, Everhart again served as the understudy for the role of Benjamin Franklin. In 1978, Everhart was nominated for a Featured Actor Tony Award for his role in the musical, Working. The actor's television career, which started back in days of live broadcasting, included series, plays, films, soap operas and commercials. Appearing in 16 feature films, Everhart gave his last film performance as the voice of Belle's father, Maurice in the Disney movie Beauty and the Beast.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP]  Mendte appeared in three movies in cameo roles: Primary Colors, Shadow of Doubt, and "Snipes", a film starring Zoe Saldana. He wrote and directed four short documentaries. Ben Franklin: Stealing Lightning from the Sky aired across the country on Benjamin Franklin's birthday in 2006. The documentary questioned whether Franklin really did conduct his famous kite experiment. Later that year Mendte wrote and directed Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope, a short documentary about Alex Scott, founder of Alex's Lemonade Stand. Alex Scott: A Stand for Hope won the award for Best Documentary at the Reno, Oxford, Danville, West Chester, Lake Arrowhead and Reel Award film Festivals. Mendte was named best Pennsylvania Filmmaker for 2006 at the West Chester Film Festival.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP]  The Lives of Benjamin Franklin is a 1974 American television miniseries that chronicles the life of Benjamin Franklin. The series was broadcast by CBS and won five Emmy Awards, including the award for Outstanding Limited Series. Howard Fast won the Emmy for Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series for the first installment (The Ambassador). Glenn Jordan was also nominated for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series for The Ambassador episode, and Loring Mandel was nominated for Outstanding Writing for a Drama Series for The Whirlwind episode. The four 90-minute episodes debuted on November 21 and December 17, 1974, and January 9 and 28, 1975.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP] Benjamin Franklin King Jr.  Benjamin Franklin King Jr. (1857–1894) was an American humorist and poet whose work published under the names Ben King or the pseudonym Bow Hackley achieved notability in his lifetime and afterwards.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP] Benjamin Franklin, Jr.  Benjamin Franklin, Jr. is a 1943 "Our Gang" short comedy film directed by Herbert Glazer. It was the 211th "Our Gang" short (212th episode, 123rd talking short, 124th talking episode, and 43rd MGM produced episode) that was released.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP] Benjamin Chavis  Dr. Benjamin Franklin Chavis Jr. (born January 22, 1948) in Oxford, North Carolina is an African-American civil rights leader and icon, United Church of Christ (UCC) ordained minister, author, journalist, organic chemist, environmentalist, global entrepreneur, and currently President and CEO of the National Newspaper Publishers Association.  In his youth, Chavis was a youth coordinator and SCLC assistant to Martin Luther King Jr., who inspired him to work in the civil rights movement. At the age of 23, Chavis rose to international prominence in 1971 as the leader of the Wilmington Ten in NC, civil rights activists who were unjustly convicted of committing arson. As the oldest of the ten, Chavis received the longest sentence of 34 years in NC prisons. The Wilmington Ten convictions and sentences were appealed and overturned, and in 1980 all ten were freed by the U.S. 4th Circuit Court of Appeals due to "prosecutorial misconduct." Chavis returned to graduate school and the field of civil rights, and he became a Vice President of the National Council of Churches in 1988 in New York City.  In 1993, the national board of directors of the NAACP elected Dr. Benjamin F. Chavis, Jr as the Executive Director and CEO of America's oldest civil rights organization. After leading the NAACP for two years, Dr. Chavis was later fired by the NAACP board over internal organizational legal disputes over staff employment policies and procedures.  Chavis later served in 1995 as the National Director of the Million Man March, and the Founder and CEO of the National African American Leadership Summit (NAALS). Since 2001, Chavis has been CEO and Co-Chairman of the Hip-Hop Summit Action Network, in New York City which he co-founded with hip-hop mogul Russell Simmons.  On June 24, 2014, Chavis became the president and CEO of the National Newspaper Publishers Association, an African-American organization which focuses on supporting and advocating for publishers of the nation's more than 230 black newspapers.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP] Benjamin Wright (composer)  Benjamin Wright, Jr. (born July 11, 1946) is an American producer and composer.  As an arranger, he has conducted hits for many artists including Justin Timberlake, OutKast, Brandy, Destiny's Child, Dru Hill, Aretha Franklin, Quincy Jones, James Ingram, Richard Ashcroft, Janet Jackson and Michael Jackson.
Who was the producer of Benjamin Franklin, Jr.? [SEP] Benjamin Franklin Bache  Benjamin Franklin Bache (August 12, 1769 – September 10, 1798) was an American journalist, printer and publisher. He founded the "Philadelphia Aurora", a newspaper that supported Jeffersonian philosophy. He frequently attacked the Federalist political leaders, including Presidents George Washington and John Adams, and historian Gordon S. Wood wrote that "no editor did more to politicize the press in the 1790s." His paper's heated attacks are thought to have contributed to passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts by the 5th United States Congress and signed by President John Adams in 1798.  The grandson of Benjamin Franklin, Bache was often referred to as "Lightning Rod Junior" after his famous grandfather's experiment. The son of Sarah Franklin and Richard Bache, he died at 29 in the yellow fever epidemic of 1798.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP]  O skliros andras (Ο σκληρός άνδρας) is a 1961 Greek comedy film produced by Finos Films and was directed by Giannis Dalianidis and starred Kostas Hatzichristos, Martha Vourtsi, Martha Karagianni and Kostas Voutsas. It is a cinematographic representation of the play by Georgios Roussos. In its first week of screening in Athens and Piraeus, the movie sold 38,764 tickets placing it 14th in the 68 Greek films in 1961–62.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Attenberg (2010) Producer
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] O thisavros tou makariti (1959) ; To exypno pouli (1961) ..... Filotas ; O skliros andras (1961) ..... police officer ; A Matter of Earnestness (1965) ..... Efstathiou ; Ah! Kai na 'moun antras (1966) ..... Stella's boss ; Voitheia! O Vengos faneros praktor 000 (1967) ..... armaments director ; Thema syneidiseos (1973) Selected filmography:
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP]  Mavra Mesanychta (Μαύρα Μεσάνυχτα; "Black Midnight") is a Greek black comedy series, originally broadcast on Mega Channel under the executive production of Frenzy Films. It was written by actor and writer Vasilis Risvas (Βασίλης Ρίσβας), who also had one of main roles in the comedy, and writer Dimitra Sakalis (Δήμητρα Σακαλή). The director of the series was Panos Kokkinopoulos (Πάνος Κοκκινόπουλος), the music producer was Marios Strofalis (Μάριος Στρόφαλης) and the producer Bessie Voudouris (Μπέσυ Βουδούρη). Kokkinopoulos, after several years of cooperation with Alpha TV, chose to include in the series actors who had worked with him in the past, like Stelios Mainas (Στέλιος Μάινας), Panagiota Vlanti (Παναγιώτα Βλαντή), Bessy Malfa (Μπέσυ Μάλφα), Gerasimos Skiadaresis (Γεράσιμος Σκιαδαρέσης). The theme music was composed by Kyriakos Papadopoulos (musician) (Κυριάκος Παπαδόπουλος), with lyrics by pop star Thirio (Θηρίο), who also performs the song alongside singer Maria Iakovou (Μαρία Ιακώβου), having a small part in the series. The production manager was Dimitrios Katsaros (Δημήτρης Κατσαρός), the head of stage design Giannis Doumas (Γιάννης Δούμας), the head of costume design Iliostalachti Vavouli (Ηλιοστάλαχτη Βαβούλη), the director of photography Kostas Palmas (Κώστας Πάλμας), the montage responsible Giannis Maris (Γιάννης Μαρής).
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Kostas Hatzichristos ..... Iraklis Leontopoulos ; Martha Vourtsi ..... Aleka Palli ; Martha Karagianni ..... Foula Davari ; Kostas Voutsas ..... Patatas ; Joly Garbi ..... Andromachi ; Vangelis Protopapas ..... Kalogirou ; Takis Hristoforidis ..... police officer ; Kostas Papachristos ..... Mistos Davaris ; Sperantza Vrana ..... Loula ; Margarita Athanasiou ...... Marika ; Kostas Naos ..... Berketis ; Giorgos Tsitsopoulos ..... Takis ; Nassos Kedrakas ..... Thanasis ; Stavros Paravas ..... police officer ; Golfo Bini ..... maid
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] The Tough Guy (1961 film)  The Tough Guy () is a 1961 Greek comedy film produced by Finos Films and was directed by Giannis Dalianidis and starred Kostas Hatzichristos, Martha Vourtsi, Martha Karagianni and Kostas Voutsas. It is a cinematographic representation of the play by Georgios Roussos. In its first week of screening in Athens and Piraeus, the movie sold 38,764 tickets placing it 14th in the 68 Greek films in 1961–62.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Stavros Paravas  Stavros Paravas (; April 15, 1935 – September 15, 2008) was a Greek actor.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Takis Christoforidis  Takis Christoforidis (, 1914–1973) was a Greek actor and cousin of Periklis Christoforidis.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Nassos Kedrakas  Athanasios (Nassos) Kedrakas (; November 21, 1915 – August 25, 1981) was a Greek actor.
Who was the producer of O skliros andras? [SEP] Joly Garbi  Joly Garbi (, 1913 – 9 December 2002) was a Greek actress. She was the wife of the actor Thodoros Moridis for 60 years. They had no descendants. In their late years they lived isolated from the public eye in their summer home in Mati.  She died in a nursing home, like her husband, and was buried in Marathon. Her death became known to the general public 10 days later. Thodoros Moridis died a year later, on December 22, 2003, at the age of 100.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP]  The film was produced by Zentropa for 20 million Danish kroner. It received co-production support from Sweden's Film i Väst and Zentropa International Sweden. Further support came from the Danish Film Institute, DR, Eurimages, Nordisk Film & TV Fond, the Swedish Film Institute, Sveriges Television, and the MEDIA Programme.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP]  The Hunt is a 2020 American horror thriller film directed by Craig Zobel and written by Nick Cuse and Damon Lindelof. The film stars Ike Barinholtz, Betty Gilpin, Emma Roberts, and Hilary Swank. Jason Blum was a producer under his Blumhouse Productions banner, along with Lindelof. Zobel and Lindelof have said that the film is intended as a satire on the profound political divide between the American left and right. The film was first announced in March 2018, and the cast signed on a year later. Filming took place in New Orleans. The film was originally scheduled for release on September 27, 2019. However, as a result of
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP]  As an independent television journalist, Bemister's first film was The Confessions of Ronald Biggs, a documentary about the fugitive British train robber Ronald Biggs, who was then living in Brazil. Bemister's co-produced 90-minute film The Hunter and the Hunted, about Nazi war criminals, their whereabouts, and the Nazi hunters who sought their arrest and prosecution, was commissioned by the Australian Seven Network and filmed on location in South America, France, Germany, Israel and the UK. Included in the film were scenes identifying the then home in La Paz, Bolivia, of Klaus Barbie, former head of the Gestapo in Lyon, France, and the first confirmation by
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] Sea Hunt (1960) - Season 2, Episode 5
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP]  The Hunt accompanies the TV series and was released in hardcover format on 2 November 2015. It is written by Alastair Fothergill and Huw Cordey, with a foreword by David Attenborough. It was published by BBC Books (ISBN: 9781849907224). In the US, the book was released on 14 June 2016 and published by the Yale University Press (ISBN: 9780300218060).
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] The Hunt (2020 film)  The Hunt is a 2020 American horror thriller film directed by Craig Zobel and written by Nick Cuse and Damon Lindelof. The film stars Betty Gilpin, Hilary Swank, Ike Barinholtz, Emma Roberts. Jason Blum was a producer under his Blumhouse Productions banner, along with Lindelof. Zobel and Lindelof have said that the film is intended as a satire on the profound political divide between the American left and right.<ref name=":2"/> It is about a group of elites who kidnap working class people to hunt them.  The film was first announced in March 2018, and the cast signed on a year later. Filming took place in New Orleans. The film was originally scheduled for release on September 27, 2019. However, as a result of the Dayton and El Paso mass shootings in early August 2019, Universal Pictures decided to delay it.  "The Hunt" was released in theaters in the United States on March 13, 2020, by Universal Pictures and received mixed reviews from critics. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the closure of most theaters within a week of the film's release, which resulted in the film underperforming at the box office, grossing only $12.4 million. Universal made "The Hunt" available digitally on March 20.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] Van Hunt  Van Hunt (born March 8, 1970) is an American singer, songwriter, multi-instrumentalist and record producer. He released his debut album, "Van Hunt", in 2004, and a follow-up, "On the Jungle Floor", in 2006, both on Capitol Records. He won the Grammy Award for Best R&B Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals for appearing on the tribute version of the Sly & the Family Stone song, "Family Affair", in 2007. He transitioned to Blue Note Records where his 2008 album, "Popular", was shelved and would not be released until 2017. He self-released the compilation album "Use in Case of Emergency" in 2009.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] Hunt Stromberg  Hunt Stromberg (July 12, 1894 – August 23, 1968) was a film producer during Hollywood's Golden Age. In a prolific 30-year career beginning in 1921, Stromberg produced, wrote, and directed some of Hollywood's most profitable and enduring films, including "The Thin Man" series, the Nelson Eddy/Jeanette MacDonald operettas, "The Women", and "The Great Ziegfeld", which won the Academy Award for Best Picture of 1936.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] Clive Hunt  Clive Hunt (born 31 May 1952) is a Jamaican reggae multi-instrumentist, arranger, composer and producer.
Who was the producer of The Hunt? [SEP] Bonnie Hunt  Bonnie Lynn Hunt (born September 22, 1961) is an American actress, comedian, director, producer, writer and television host. Her film roles include "Rain Man", "Beethoven", "Beethoven's 2nd", "Jumanji", "Jerry Maguire", "The Green Mile", "Cheaper by the Dozen", and "Cheaper by the Dozen 2".  Hunt has done voice work in "A Bug's Life", "Zootopia", and the "Monsters, Inc.", "Cars", and "Toy Story" franchises. She starred in "Grand" and "Davis Rules", as well as creating, producing, writing, and starring in "The Building", "Bonnie", and "Life with Bonnie". From 2008 to 2010, she hosted "The Bonnie Hunt Show".
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP]  The show was produced by Selig J. Seligman, a former U.S. Army lawyer who served at the Nuremberg Trials. He later became an ABC Vice President as well as executive producer of Combat! and Garrison's Gorillas.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP]  Accused is a 1936 British mystery film directed by Thornton Freeland and starring Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Dolores del Río and Florence Desmond. It was made at Isleworth Studios by the independent Criterion Films, which Fairbanks was a co-owner of. The film's sets were designed by Edward Carrick.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP]  Accused is a British television anthology series created by Jimmy McGovern. The drama series first aired on 15 November 2010 on BBC One and has run for two series. Each episode follows a different character as they await their verdict in court, and tells the story behind how they find themselves accused. The series has featured actors and actresses such as Christopher Eccleston, Benjamin Smith, Juliet Stevenson, Andy Serkis, Marc Warren, Naomie Harris, Sean Bean and Anne-Marie Duff as the accused in each episode. The series follows previous drama series by McGovern, including anthology series The Street and Moving On. After the cancellation of The Street in 2009 by Granada Television, McGovern formed RSJ Films to produce independent drama programmes and subsequently devised the Accused anthology series. Accused was written by McGovern, Danny Brocklehurst and Alice Nutter and was filmed in Manchester. In 2011 it won an International Emmy for best drama series.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP] Edgar Allan Jones, Jr. as the Judge ; William Gwinn as the Substitute Judge ; Jim Hodson as the Clerk ; Tim Farrell as the Bailiff ; Violet Gillmore as the Court Reporter (and Announcer) Similar to other courtroom dramas of the time, the defendants and witnesses were actors (including, for example, Pamela Mason and Robert Culp). However, the defense and prosecution attorneys were real-life lawyers. The court was presided over by Edgar Allan Jones, Jr. Jones had a law degree from the University of Virginia, was a member of the UCLA law faculty and a labor arbitrator.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP]  In May 2021, it was announced that Fox had given a straight-to-order to an American adaptation of the series. The series will be co-produced between Sony Pictures Television and Fox Entertainment and scheduled for premiere in the 2022–23 television season with Howard Gordon, Alex Gansa and David Shore will be executive producing.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP]
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP] Harvey Weinstein sexual abuse cases  In October 2017, "The New York Times" and "The New Yorker" reported that dozens of women had accused film producer Harvey Weinstein of rape, sexual assault and sexual abuse over a period of at least 30 years. Over 80 women in the film industry eventually accused Weinstein of such acts. Weinstein denied "any non-consensual sex". Shortly after, he was dismissed from The Weinstein Company (TWC), expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and other professional associations, and retired from public view.  Criminal investigations into complaints from at least six women took place in Los Angeles, New York City, and London. In May 2018, Weinstein was arrested in New York and charged with rape and other offenses. In February 2020, he was found guilty of rape in the third degree and a criminal sexual act.<ref name=deadline/> In March 2020, he was sentenced to 23 years of imprisonment.<ref name=RansomSentenced/>  "The New York Times" and "The New Yorker" were awarded the 2018 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service for their coverage of Weinstein. The scandal triggered many similar allegations against powerful men around the world, and led to the ousting of many of them from their positions. It also led a great number of women to share their own experiences of sexual assault, harassment, or rape on social media under the hashtag #MeToo. The scandal's impact on powerful men in various industries came to be called the Weinstein effect.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP] Harvey Weinstein  Harvey Weinstein (; born March 19, 1952) is an American former film producer and convicted sex offender. He and his brother, Bob Weinstein, co-founded the entertainment company Miramax, which produced several successful independent films including "Sex, Lies, and Videotape" (1989); "The Crying Game" (1992); "Pulp Fiction" (1994); "Heavenly Creatures" (1994); "Flirting with Disaster" (1996); and "Shakespeare in Love" (1998). Weinstein won an Academy Award for producing "Shakespeare in Love" and also won seven Tony Awards for plays and musicals including "The Producers", "Billy Elliot the Musical", and "". After leaving Miramax, Weinstein and his brother Bob founded The Weinstein Company, a mini-major film studio. He was co-chairman, alongside Bob, from 2005 to 2017.  In October 2017, following sexual abuse allegations dating back to the late 1970s, Weinstein was dismissed from his company and expelled from the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences. More than 80 women made allegations of sexual harassment and/or rape against Weinstein by October 31. The allegations sparked the #MeToo social media campaign and subsequent sexual abuse allegations against many powerful men around the world; this phenomenon is referred to as the "Weinstein effect". Weinstein was arrested and charged with rape in New York in May 2018, and was found guilty of two of five felonies in February 2020. Weinstein was sentenced to 23 years in prison, and began serving his sentence at Wende Correctional Facility. His earliest possible release date is November 9, 2039, when he will be 87 years old. On July 20, 2021, he was extradited to Los Angeles to face further charges at a subsequent trial, where he was found guilty of three of seven charges on December 19, 2022.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP] Accused (2010 TV series)  Accused is a British television anthology series created by Jimmy McGovern. The drama series first aired on 15 November 2010 on BBC One and has run for two series. Each episode follows a different character as they await their verdict in court, and tells the story behind how they find themselves accused. The series has featured actors and actresses such as Christopher Eccleston, Benjamin Smith, Juliet Stevenson, Andy Serkis, Marc Warren, Naomie Harris, Sean Bean and Anne-Marie Duff as the accused in each episode.  The series follows previous drama series by McGovern, including anthology series "The Street" and "Moving On". After the cancellation of "The Street" in 2009 by Granada Television, McGovern formed RSJ Films to produce independent drama programmes and subsequently devised the "Accused" anthology series. "Accused" was written by McGovern, Danny Brocklehurst and Alice Nutter and was filmed in Manchester. In 2011 it won an International Emmy for best drama series.
Who was the producer of The Accused? [SEP] Phil Spector  Harvey Phillip Spector (born Harvey Philip Spector; December 26, 1939January 16, 2021) was an American record producer and songwriter, best known for his innovative recording practices and entrepreneurship in the 1960s, followed decades later by his two trials and conviction for murder in the 2000s. Spector developed the Wall of Sound, a production style that is characterized for its diffusion of tone colors and dense orchestral sound, which he described as a "Wagnerian" approach to rock and roll. He is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in pop music history and one of the most successful producers of the 1960s.<ref name="WallofSilence"/>  Born in the Bronx, Spector moved to Los Angeles as a teenager and began his career in 1958 as a founding member of the Teddy Bears, for whom he penned "To Know Him Is to Love Him", a U.S. number-one hit. In 1960, after working as an apprentice to Leiber and Stoller, Spector co-founded Philles Records, and at the age of 21 became the youngest ever U.S. label owner to that point. Dubbed the "First Tycoon of Teen", Spector became considered the first auteur of the music industry for the unprecedented control he had over every phase of the recording process. He produced acts such as the Ronettes, the Crystals, and Ike & Tina Turner, and typically collaborated with arranger Jack Nitzsche and engineer Larry Levine. The musicians from his "de facto" house band, later known as "the Wrecking Crew", rose to industry fame through his hit records.  In the early 1970s, Spector produced the Beatles' "Let It Be" and several solo records by John Lennon and George Harrison. By the mid-1970s, Spector had produced eighteen U.S. Top 10 singles for various artists. His chart-toppers included the Righteous Brothers' "You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin'", the Beatles' "The Long and Winding Road", and Harrison's "My Sweet Lord". Following one-off productions for Leonard Cohen ("Death of a Ladies' Man"), Dion DiMucci ("Born to Be with You"), and the Ramones ("End of the Century"), Spector remained largely inactive amid a lifestyle of seclusion, drug use, and increasingly erratic behavior.  Spector helped establish the role of the studio as an instrument, the integration of pop art aesthetics into music (art pop), and the genres of art rock and dream pop. His honors include the 1973 Grammy Award for Album of the Year for co-producing Harrison's "Concert for Bangladesh", a 1989 induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and a 1997 induction into the Songwriters Hall of Fame. In 2004, Spector was ranked number 63 on "Rolling Stone"s list of the greatest artists in history.<ref>See:
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us! is the fourth studio album by American pop rock group Paul Revere & the Raiders. Produced by Terry Melcher and released on January 3, 1966, by Columbia Records, it featured the U.S. hit single "Just Like Me". Unlike their later albums, on which Mark Lindsay was the primary lead singer, the lead vocal duties on Just Like Us! were split among him and the other band members, guitarist Drake Levin, bassist Phil Volk, and drummer Mike Smith. This was their last album of cover songs, their next album Midnight Ride was mostly self-penned material.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us! was the band's first album to be released after they had started appearing regularly on the 1960s television variety show Where the Action Is. The LP peaked at number five on the Billboard 200 albums chart. It was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on January 6, 1967. The cover art was taken from a Guy Webster photo session at Clark Gable's ranch in Encino, California. This album was remastered and rereleased May 19, 1998 by Sundazed Records with extra tracks.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us features an original score by Omar Fadel, as well as licensed tracks from, Fredwreck, MC Rai, and Tom Morello's Street Sweeper Social Club.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us is a 2010 documentary about a comedy tour of international comedians throughout the middle east. Directed by Egyptian-American actor/comedian, Ahmed Ahmed, the film premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] Executive producer: Jon Phelps ; Producer and engineer: Gary Platt ; Assistant engineer: Steve Moller ; Mastering: Mike Fuller
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] And Just Like That...  And Just Like That... is an American comedy-drama streaming television series developed by Michael Patrick King for HBO Max. It is a revival and a sequel of the HBO television series "Sex and the City" created by Darren Star, which is based on Candace Bushnell's newspaper column and 1996 book anthology of the same name.  Development for the series began in December 2020, following the cancellation of a third film adaptation. It was given a straight-to-series order in January 2021 by HBO Max. Casting announcements were made throughout 2021 and filming started in July 2021 in New York City.  "And Just Like That..." premiered on HBO Max on December 9, 2021, with mixed reviews. The season finale was released on February 3, 2022. Originally billed as a miniseries, the series was renewed for a second season in March 2022. Section::::Overview. Set 11 years after the events of the 2010 film "Sex and the City 2", from their friendship in their 30s to a more complicated reality of life and friendship in their 50s, the women of "Sex and the City" make their transition.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] People Just Like Us  People Just Like Us is the third live praise and worship album of contemporary worship music by Hillsong Church.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] Just Like Us (film)  Just Like Us is a 2010 documentary about a comedy tour of international comedians throughout the middle east. Directed by Egyptian-American actor/comedian, Ahmed Ahmed, the film premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] Just Like Us!  Just Like Us! is the fourth studio album by American rock band Paul Revere & the Raiders. Produced by Terry Melcher and released on January 3, 1966, by Columbia Records, it featured the U.S. hit single "Just Like Me". Unlike their later albums, on which Mark Lindsay was the primary lead singer, the lead vocal duties on "Just Like Us!" were split among him and the other band members, guitarist Drake Levin, bassist Phil Volk, and drummer Mike Smith.<ref name="review"> </ref> This was their last album of cover songs, their next album "Midnight Ride" was mostly self-penned material.
Who was the producer of Just Like Us? [SEP] Just Like Me (Jamie Foxx song)  "Just Like Me" is the first single from Jamie Foxx's third studio album "Intuition". It features rapper T.I., who co-wrote the song with its producers, Tricky Stewart & The-Dream. This is the second collaboration between the two after "Live in the Sky" off T.I.'s fourth studio album "King".
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Tomorrow Today
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP]  TODAY is a music production duo consisting of Vinay Vyas and Justin Davey. They are currently based in New York City and Lisbon. Today began their careers as understudies to Grammy nominated producer Kane Beatz, and closely collaborated with him throughout 2011. During the spring of 2012 they caught the interest of Mike Caren, then president of boutique publishing label Artist Publishing Group.
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] [ Can You Come Today]
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP]  In 1989, he was a field producer for Today, and at 26 he became its executive producer in 1992. He introduced the program's trademark outdoor rock concert series and was in charge as Today moved to the "window on the world" Studio 1A in Rockefeller Plaza in 1994. He is credited with managing the show during its most successful years and launching it into its 16-years of ratings dominance.
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Paul Brown – producer (Tracks 1-9 & 11) ; Barry J. Eastmond – producer (Track 10) ; Bill Darlington – executive producer ; Bill Schnee – engineer, mixing ; Koji Egawa – assistant engineer ; Stephen Marcussen – mastering at A&M Mastering Studios (Hollywood, California). ; Hollis King – art direction, design ; Albert Sanchez – photography
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Today (American TV program)  Today (also called The Today Show or informally, NBC News Today) is an American news and talk morning television show that airs weekdays from 7:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. on NBC. The program debuted on January 14, 1952. It was the first of its genre on American television and in the world, and after 70 years of broadcasting it is fifth on the list of longest-running United States television series.  Originally a weekday two-hour program from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m., it expanded to Sundays in 1987 and Saturdays in 1992. The weekday broadcast expanded to three hours in 2000, and to four hours in 2007 (though over time, the third and fourth hours became distinct entities). "Today"s dominance was virtually unchallenged by the other networks until the late 1980s, when it was overtaken by ABC's "Good Morning America".  "Today" retook the Nielsen ratings lead the week of December 11, 1995, and held onto that position for 852 consecutive weeks until the week of April 9, 2012, when "Good Morning America" topped it again. "Today" maintained its No. 2 status behind "GMA" from the summer of 2012 until it regained the lead in the aftermath of anchor Matt Lauer's departure in November 2017. In 2002, "Today" was ranked No. 17 on "TV Guide"s 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time.  The entertainment magazine "Variety" reported the 2016 advertising revenue during the first two hours of the show was $508.8 million.  On July 15, 2020, NBC launched "Today" All Day, a 24-hour digital streaming extension of the program available through its website and Peacock.
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Love Today (2022 film)  Love Today is a 2022 Indian Tamil-language romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Pradeep Ranganathan in his second directorial venture after "Comali", and produced by Kalapathi S. Aghoram under the banner of AGS Entertainment. The film stars Pradeep Ranganathan himself (in his acting debut), Ivana, Raveena Ravi, Yogi Babu, Sathyaraj and Raadhika Sarathkumar in lead roles. The film's music and score is composed by Yuvan Shankar Raja, with cinematography handled by Dinesh Purushothaman and editing done by Pradeep E. Ragav.  "Love Today" was released theatrically on 4 November 2022, and received highly positive reviews from critics and audience. The film was a critical and commercial success at the box office grossing ₹100 crores against a budget of ₹5 crore.
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Quincy Jones  Quincy Delight Jones Jr. (born March 14, 1933) is an American record producer, musician, songwriter, composer, arranger, and film and television producer. His career spans 70 years in the entertainment industry with a record of 80 Grammy Award nominations, 28 Grammys,<ref name="autogenerated1" /> and a Grammy Legend Award in 1992.  Jones came to prominence in the 1950s as a jazz arranger and conductor before working on pop music and film scores. He moved easily between musical genres, producing pop hit records for Lesley Gore in the early 1960s (including "It's My Party") and serving as an arranger and conductor for several collaborations between the jazz artists Frank Sinatra and Count Basie in the same time period. In 1968, Jones became the first African American to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Song for "The Eyes of Love" from the film "Banning". Jones was also nominated for an Academy Award for Best Original Score for his work on the 1967 film "In Cold Blood", making him the first African American to be nominated twice in the same year. Jones produced three of popstar Michael Jackson's most successful albums: "Off the Wall" (1979), "Thriller" (1982), and "Bad" (1987). In 1985, Jones produced and conducted the charity song "We Are the World", which raised funds for victims of famine in Ethiopia.  In 1971, Jones became the first African American to be the musical director and conductor of the Academy Awards. In 1995, he was the first African American to receive the academy's Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award. He is tied with sound designer Willie D. Burton as the second most Oscar-nominated African American, with seven nominations each. In 2013, Jones was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame as the winner, alongside Lou Adler, of the Ahmet Ertegun Award. He was named one of the most influential jazz musicians of the 20th century by "Time".<ref name="quincyjones.com"/>
Who was the producer of Today? [SEP] Jeff Zucker  Jeffrey Adam Zucker is an American former media executive. Between January 2013 and February 2022, Zucker was the president of CNN Worldwide. Zucker oversaw CNN, CNN International, HLN, and CNN Digital. He was previously CEO of NBCUniversal. Zucker served as an executive in residence at Columbia Business School.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP]  Founded in 1988, by Nigel Henbest, Heather Couper and Stuart Carter, Pioneer targeted science broadcasting in a period of global tele-media expansion, and sought relationships with US factual television broadcasters. In the 1990s it produced series entitled Raging Planet, and Extreme Machines. Later CGI films included Journey to the Edge of the Universe, The Unsinkable Titanic, Hindenburg: The Last Flight, Extraordinary Animals, In the Womb, and Catastrophe. In 2009 it helped produce the six-part series Christianity: A History for Channel 4.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] Virginia Beresford ; William Thornton as David Cameron ; Robert Purdie as Donald Cameron ; Connie Martyn as Mary Cameron ; Augustus Neville ; George Chalmers ; W. Dummitt ; 'Big' Bill Wilson ; Sydney Hackett ; Phyllis Culbert
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP]  Young Pioneers is a 1976 American Western television film which aired in March 1976 on ABC. Elements of novels Let the Hurricane Roar and Free Land by Rose Wilder Lane (daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder) were used as the basis for the movie, with Roger Kern and Linda Purl starring as the focal characters David and Molly Beaton. Although produced as a TV series pilot by ABC Circle Films and ranked #7 in the Nielsen ratings for the week it aired, the movie was not picked up by ABC as a series. A second pilot attempt was made in December 1976 with Young Pioneers' Christmas, but ranked lower at #37 in the Nielsen ratings and was not picked up by the studio for a series.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP]  The Pioneers is the debut collaboration album by American rappers MC Eiht and Spice 1. The album was released June 29, 2004, on Real Talk Entertainment. It peaked at number 71 on the Billboard Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums. Spice 1 and MC Eiht also produced a second album together for Real Talk Entertainment, titled Keep It Gangsta, released in 2006.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP]  The Pioneers is an American silent film and one of the earliest Westerns, having been released by the American Mutoscope and Biograph Company in October 1903. It incorporates part of the footage from Kit Carson, another Western short also released by Biograph in October 1903. Both films were shot on location in the Adirondack Mountains of New York.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] The Pioneers (band)  The Pioneers are a Jamaican reggae vocal trio, whose main period of success was in the 1960s. The trio has had different line-ups, and still occasionally performs.<ref name="AMG"/>
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] The Young Pioneers (miniseries)  The Young Pioneers was a trial-run ABC western television series about young newlyweds who settle in the Dakota Territory during the 1870s. If the first three episodes had received good ratings the series may have found a place on the network’s fall lineup.  The series was based on the plot of Rose Wilder Lane’s 1933 novel "Let the Hurricane Roar", which was reissued as "Young Pioneers" though the main characters names came from her novel "Free Land".  In March 1975 the television film "Young Pioneers" was watched by 40 million viewers, so in December 1975 a second film "Young Pioneers' Christmas" continued the story of homesteaders Molly and David Beaton, and served as a pilot for a planned ABC series. "The Young Pioneers" series aired on Sundays at 7 p.m. The first episode was a two-hour movie, followed by two sixty-minute episodes.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] The Pioneer Woman (TV series)  The Pioneer Woman is a US cooking show that airs on Food Network. It is presented by Ree Drummond. The series features Drummond cooking for her family and friends, primarily at her ranch in Pawhuska, Oklahoma. The title of the series is taken from Drummond's blog of the same name.<ref name="six"/>
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] Young Pioneers (film)  Young Pioneers is a 1976 American Western television film which aired in March 1976 on ABC. Elements of novels "Let the Hurricane Roar" and "Free Land" by Rose Wilder Lane (daughter of Laura Ingalls Wilder) were used as the basis for the movie, with Roger Kern and Linda Purl starring as the focal characters David and Molly Beaton. Although produced as a TV series pilot by ABC Circle Films and ranked #7 in the Nielsen ratings for the week it aired, the movie was not immediately picked up by ABC as a series. A second pilot attempt was made in December 1976 with "Young Pioneers' Christmas", but ranked lower at #37 in the Nielsen ratings. In 1978 "The Young Pioneers (miniseries)" was broadcast.
Who was the producer of The Pioneers? [SEP] O Pioneers! (film)  O Pioneers! is a 1992 American made-for-television drama film based on the 1913 novel of the same title by Willa Cather. It originally aired as a "Hallmark Hall of Fame" presentation on February 2, 1992, on CBS and stars Jessica Lange. It was also the film debut for Anne Heche, who had a small supporting role in the film.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP]  Struggling Hollywood film producer Charlie Berns is on the verge of suicide when his aspiring screenwriter nephew Lionel arrives from New Jersey with a script about 19th century British statesman Benjamin Disraeli. Charlie agrees to make the film, but only when he converts the literate PBS-style script (that he didn't read) into an action adventure Middle Eastern espionage film, Ben Disraeli: Freedom Fighter. He casts power-star African American Bobby Mason, a recent convert to Judaism, in the title role and, after some creative wrangling with studio big-wigs and feisty project developer Deidre Hearn, whom he is instantly attracted to, he proceeds to
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP]  The film was commissioned in 2002 by ITV's head of drama Nick Elliott, who encouraged Peter Morgan to put aside any other projects and start work on a script as soon as possible. Granada was initially sceptical of producing it; the company's executive chairman and chief executive—Charles Allen and Simon Shaps respectively—believed that Blair would be forced to resign as Prime Minister over the impending war in Iraq, consequently leaving the story outdated. The project was believed to be "too cerebral" and attempts were made to persuade Morgan to develop a television series to replace Cold Feet, another Granada production.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP]  After John Yorke recommissioned the film for Channel 4, it was scheduled as part of a "Tony Blair season". The Deal aired on 28 September 2003, the day before the Labour Party Conference began in Bournemouth. Despite heavy media attention, the broadcast was seen by only 1.5 million viewers. The film received a screening at the San Francisco Film Festival on 5 May 2007, following an interview with Peter Morgan. International rights for North America and Australasia were purchased from Channel 4 International by The Weinstein Company in 2007, who sold it to American cable network HBO. HBO screened The Deal on 8 November 2007. Channel 4 released it on region 2 DVD on 19 May 2008 under its 4dvd brand. Genius Products,
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP]  Whiston and Andy Harries convinced Allen and Shaps otherwise, citing Granada's history of producing ground-breaking drama and film as reasons for why The Deal should be made. ITV's director of channels, David Liddiment, who supported the production, resigned in December 2002 and was replaced by Nigel Pickard, who shared the concerns of Allen and Shaps. Peter Morgan wrote his first script draft in the three weeks preceding Christmas 2002. Recent events such as the 2001 foot and mouth outbreak and the contention surrounding the September Dossier made him believe that the perceived adversity between Brown and Blair was no
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP]  The Deal is a 2008 American satirical comedy film directed by Steven Schachter. The screenplay by Schachter and William H. Macy is based on the 1991 novel of the same title by Peter Lefcourt. Macy and Meg Ryan co-star. The film was shot in Cape Town and other South African locations. It premiered at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival and was the opening night attraction at the Sarasota Film Festival. It also was shown at the Philadelphia Film Festival, the Maui Film Festival, and the Traverse City Film Festival, among others, but never was given a theatrical release in the United States. It was released on Region 1 DVD on January 20, 2009.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP] Let's Make a Deal  Let's Make a Deal (also known as LMAD) is an American television game show that originated in the United States in 1963 and has since been produced in many countries throughout the world. The program was created and produced by Stefan Hatos and Monty Hall, the latter serving as its host for nearly 30 years.  The format of "Let's Make a Deal" involves selected members of the studio audience, referred to as "traders", making deals with the host. In most cases, a trader will be offered something of value and given a choice of whether to keep it or exchange it for a different item. The program's defining game mechanism is that the other item is hidden from the trader until that choice is made. The trader thus does not know if they are getting something of equal or greater value or a prize that is referred to as a "zonk," an item purposely chosen to be of little or no value to the trader.  "Let's Make a Deal" is also known for audience members who dress in outrageous costumes in order to increase their chances of being selected as a trader.  The current edition of "Let's Make a Deal" has aired on CBS since October 5, 2009, when it took over the spot on the network's daytime schedule vacated by the long-running soap opera "Guiding Light". Wayne Brady is the host of the current series, with Jonathan Mangum as his announcer/assistant. Tiffany Coyne is the current model, joining in 2010, with musician Cat Gray in 2011.  Starting in fall 2020, "Let's Make a Deal" began filming with a hybrid of audience members in-studio seated in pods as well as virtual contestants playing from their homes due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic (nicknamed "At-Homies"). According to executive producer John Quinn, all COVID-19 protocols are in effect during production, including social distancing, testing, masks (only for crewmembers and while off set), and personal protective equipment.  The 13th season of the current version premiered on September 13, 2021. Three primetime episodes were filmed and aired during the season. The 14th season premiered on September 19, 2022. As has been the case since Season 12, primetime episodes will air during the 2022-23 season.  The show is owned by Marcus/Glass Productions, a joint venture of Marcus Entertainment (Marcus Lemonis) and Nancy Glass following an August 2021 acquisition of Hatos-Hall assets, with Sharon Hall, a former Endemol Shine executive, as the consultant. From January 2022, CAN'T STOP media will be in charge of the format's international distribution.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP] Dun Deal  David Maximillian Cunningham (born August 19, 1986), known professionally as Dun Deal, is an American record producer, songwriter and rapper. He is best known for producing A$AP Mob's hit single "RAF", Young Thug's single "Stoner" and Migos' single "Hannah Montana".<ref name="FACT1" /> Cunningham has also worked with Gucci Mane, Usher, Trey Songz, Future, Drake, Rich Homie Quan, and Kevin Gates, among others.<ref name="FACT1" /><ref name="XXL1" /> He is signed to Artist Publishing Group.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP] Negative pickup deal  In film production, a negative pickup is a contract entered into by an independent producer and a movie studio conglomerate wherein the studio agrees to purchase the movie from the producer at a given date and for a fixed sum. Depending on whether the studio pays part or all of the cost of the film, the studio will receive the rights (theatrical, television, home entertainment) domestic and/or international to the film, with net profits split between the producer and the studio.   The word "negative" in this context can be confusing because it does not relate to a numerical value (where negative means less than zero), but instead comes from the pre-digital era in which a motion picture was embodied in physical film negatives.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP] Deal or No Deal (American game show)  Deal or No Deal is an American version of the international game show of Dutch origin of the same name. The show is hosted by Howie Mandel, and premiered on December 19, 2005, on NBC. The hour-long show typically aired at least twice a week during its run, and included special extended or theme episodes. The show started its fourth season on August 25, 2008, a day after NBC's coverage of the 2008 Beijing Olympics ended. A daily syndicated half-hour version of the show debuted on September 8, 2008, and continued for two seasons.  The game is primarily unchanged from the international format: a contestant chooses one briefcase from a selection of 26. Each briefcase contains a cash value from $0.01 to $1,000,000. Over the course of the game, the contestant eliminates cases from the game, periodically being presented with a "deal" from The Banker to take a cash amount to quit the game. Should the contestant refuse every deal, they are given the chance to trade the case they chose at the outset for the only one left in play at the time; they then win the amount in the selected case.  Special variations of the game, including a "Million Dollar Mission" introduced in the third season, were also used, as well as a tie-in with a viewer "Lucky Case Game".  The show was a success for NBC, typically averaging from 10 to 16 million viewers each episode in the first season, although the subsequent seasons only averaged about 5–9 million viewers each episode. It has led to the creation of tie-in board, card, arcade, and video games, as well as a syndicated series played for smaller dollar amounts.  The show went on hiatus in early 2009, and its Friday night time slot was replaced with Mandel's other series "Howie Do It". The network later announced on that "Deal or No Deal" would return on May 4, 2009, to air its remaining episodes. These remaining four were taped in September 2008, and aired on three consecutive Mondays, May 4, 2009, May 11, 2009, and the final two on May 18, 2009.  On December 3, 2018, the show returned to NBC as a holiday special with original host Howie Mandel. New episodes of the program began airing on CNBC on December 5, 2018. The show aired its final episode on August 7, 2019.
Who was the producer of The Deal? [SEP] Deal or No Deal (British game show)  Deal or No Deal is a British game show, hosted by Noel Edmonds, which aired from 31 October 2005 to 23 December 2016 on Channel 4. Based on the original Netherlands format of the game show, each episode sees a contestant choosing one of 22 boxes, each containing a cash amount between 1p to £250,000, and then attempting to win as much as possible either by gambling on having a high amount in their chosen box, or making the game's hidden operator, named "the Banker", offer a considerable cash sum for their box regardless of what is inside. The amount a contestant wins is determined by pure luck – cash amounts are randomly allocated to each of the boxes before each game, with contestants required to open a specific number of boxes per round of the game to eliminate the cash amounts their chosen box does not contain, in turn affecting how much is offered by the Banker. Games always end with the player opening all of the boxes, including their own, regardless of how they intend to make money.  Throughout its broadcast, the programme was regularly aired daily – for its first eight series, the show was aired six days a week for a year, with breaks in production between July and August – with a number of episodes given special themes to coincide with national holidays such as Christmas and Halloween – such special editions included special features and prizes, and sometimes an increase in cash amounts on offer. In addition, the show also showcased a series of special celebrity editions, including a special 10th anniversary edition on 18 September 2015 in which Edmonds played the game himself.  On 19 August 2016, Channel 4 axed "Deal or No Deal" after thirteen series, ending the game show with a special "Deal or No Deal on Tour" series across the United Kingdom, with the programme officially concluding after 11 years on 23 December 2016. In October 2022, it was reported that ITV will be piloting a revived version of the show. Two pilot episodes were filmed on 1 December 2022.
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP]  The idea for the film came from the 1913 book The Other Side of Music-Hall by Colette, a collection of texts written for a newspaper about her life during a music hall tour in the French provinces. The project started around the same time as the suicide of independent film producer Humbert Balsan, which also had made an impression on Amalric. "I'm fascinated by producers. I always wonder how they manage to keep going and take such responsibility. ... So these different themes came together and I invented a story about a French TV producer and the women who were courageous enough to come
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP]  He served at the president of the League of Off-Broadway Theatres and Producers for eight years, from 1999 to 2007. He is one of the founders of On the Road, a theatrical booking agency, Showtix, a Broadway group sales company that was acquired by Hollywood Media and Broadway Inner Circle, a premium ticket agency. He is a member of The Broadway League, the Society of London Theatre, and the League of Off Broadway Theatres and Producers. From 2000 to 2005, he was the operator with partners of the Arts Theatre in London, presenting such productions as The Pet Shop Boys Musical Closer to Heaven. In 2012,
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP]  On Tour (Tournée) is a 2010 internationally co-produced comedy-drama film directed by Mathieu Amalric. It stars Amalric himself as a producer who brings an American Neo-Burlesque troupe to France, played by genuine performers Mimi Le Meaux, Kitten on the Keys, Dirty Martini, Julie Atlas Muz, Evie Lovelle and Roky Roulette. In a road movie narrative, the plot follows the troupe as they tour French port cities with their show, which was performed for actual audiences during the production. The inspiration for the film was a book by Colette about her experience from music halls in the early 20th century, and a part of Amalric's aim was to translate the sentiment of the book to a modern setting. The film premiered at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival where it won the FIPRESCI Award, the festival's main prize from film critics. Amalric also received the Best Director Award.
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP] Producer - Ed Stassium - producer ("Going to Brazil") ; Billy Sherwood - producer ("Hellraiser") ; Peter Solley - producer ("Hellraiser") ; Paul Hemingson - engineer ("Going to Brazil") ; Tom Fletcher - engineer ("Hellraiser") ; Casey McMackin - engineer ("Hellraiser") ; Steve Hall - mastering
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP]  References
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP] The Producers (musical)  The Producers is a musical comedy with music and lyrics by Mel Brooks, and a book by Brooks and Thomas Meehan. It is adapted from Brooks's 1967 film of the same name.   The story concerns two theatrical producers who scheme to get rich by fraudulently overselling interests in a Broadway flop. Complications arise when the show unexpectedly turns out to be successful. The humor of the show draws on ridiculous accents, caricatures of gay people and Nazis, and many show business in-jokes.  After 33 previews, the original Broadway production opened at the St. James Theatre on April 19, 2001, starring Nathan Lane and Matthew Broderick, and ran for 2,502 performances, winning a record-breaking 12 Tony Awards. It spawned a successful West End production running for just over two years, national tours in the US and UK, many productions worldwide and a 2005 film version.
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP] Andy Wilman  Andrew Neville Wilman (born 16 August 1962) is an English television producer who is best known as the former executive producer of the "Top Gear" show, from 2002 to 2015, as well as being the executive producer of "The Grand Tour". He was responsible for much of the show's style and humour, along with Jeremy Clarkson. He has also presented segments of the original "Top Gear". He is primarily responsible for the creation of The Stig.  Wilman and Clarkson both attended Repton School along with Formula One designer Adrian Newey.  After the original format of "Top Gear" was cancelled by the BBC, Wilman and ex-presenter Clarkson pitched a new format.  Wilman and Clarkson's company Bedder 6, which handled merchandise and international distribution for "Top Gear", earned over £149m in revenue in 2012, prior to a restructuring that gave BBC Worldwide full control of the "Top Gear" rights.  In April 2015, Wilman announced that he had resigned as executive producer of BBC Television's "Top Gear" following Jeremy Clarkson's exit in March 2015, owing to Clarkson's "fracas" with a producer. Wilman became the executive producer of "The Grand Tour" that he, Clarkson, Richard Hammond, and James May produced via their company "W. Chump & Sons" for release via Amazon Video to Amazon Prime customers. While not appearing on the show, Wilman was often referenced as "Mr Wilman", sending the others texts, which gave them missions, and often insults.  In 2019 after three series, "The Grand Tour" changed formats, no longer producing episodic series and instead producing only individual episodes similar to specials from previous series. The group closed the W. Chump production company stating it was no longer necessary based on the amount of content being created. Wilman also stated he would be doing a solo project for Amazon, which would be produced following projects from Clarkson, Hammond and May.  On 17 April 2020 Wilman was reported to have contracted COVID-19, and reportedly had difficulty in breathing and was severely affected, leading to delays of the upcoming "Grand Tour" Specials. The reports did however confirm he was recovering, and on 29 April Wilman appeared in a "DriveTribe" video confirmed that while he had been "completely out" for ten days, he was now feeling better and recovering well.
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP] The Eras Tour  The Eras Tour (stylized as Taylor Swift | The Eras Tour) is the upcoming sixth headlining concert tour by American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift. Having not toured for her studio albums "Lover" (2019), "Folklore" (2020), and "Evermore" (2020) due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Swift will embark on the Eras Tour in support of all of her albums, including her latest, "Midnights" (2022). It is her second all-stadium tour, after the 2018 Reputation Stadium Tour. The U.S. leg is set to commence on March 17, 2023, in Glendale, Arizona, and end on August 9, 2023, in Inglewood, California. Swift described the tour's concept as a "journey through all of my musical eras".  Media outlets described demand for tickets to the Eras Tour as "unprecedented" and "astronomical", with 3.5 million people registering for Ticketmaster's presale program for the U.S. leg. The company's website crashed on November 15 immediately after the presale commenced, but 2.4 million tickets to the tour were sold that day, breaking the all-time record for the most concert tickets sold by an artist in a single day. Nevertheless, Ticketmaster was met with controversy and widespread criticism. "Billboard" reported that The Eras Tour grossed over $554 million from its presale alone, surpassing Madonna's Sticky & Sweet Tour (2008–09) to become the highest-grossing tour ever by a female act.
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP]
Who was the producer of On Tour? [SEP] XO Tour Llif3  "XO Tour Llif3" (stylized as "XO TOUR Llif3" and pronounced "XO Tour Life") is a single by American rapper Lil Uzi Vert from the extended play "Luv Is Rage 1.5" (2017) and debut album "Luv Is Rage 2" (2017). It was released on SoundCloud on February 26, 2017, and later on all music streaming platforms on March 24, 2017. The track was produced by TM88, with co-production by JW Lucas. It peaked at number seven on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, becoming Lil Uzi Vert's highest-charting single as a solo artist until the release of "Futsal Shuffle 2020", which peaked at number five. It was also their second top 10 entry overall after their feature on "Bad and Boujee" by Migos. It is Lil Uzi Vert's most popular song, and has amassed over one billion streams on Spotify. On December 7, 2022, the song was certified RIAA Diamond selling over 11 million copies, giving them their first Diamond certification and making it the best-selling emo rap song of all-time. A sequel to the song, titled "P2" was included on Lil Uzi Vert's second album "Eternal Atake" (2020). The song has since come to be regarded as Lil Uzi Vert's signature song.  It was later featured on the soundtrack for "WWE 2K20".
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]  The Baby on the Barge is a 1915 British silent film drama directed by Cecil Hepworth and starring Alma Taylor and Stewart Rome. No print of the film is known to survive and it is presumed lost.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]  In the latter part of the 1980s, Goodwin turned his hand to a television series for Britain's Channel 4 and the American PBS, Leontyne by Barge from London to Vienna, about his international travels on a barge, called the Leontyne. An accompanying book, Leontyne, written by Goodwin, was published by Collins. Later, Goodwin went on to shoot and produce a collection of films, titled Barging Through Europe, on his travels, on another boat, the Regina, depicting the vanishing trades of France.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]  Edward John Barge (August 10, 1910 &ndash; September 29, 1991) was an American animator. Barge was born to Alfred Edward and Margaret G. Barge in San Jose, California. In 1916, the family moved to Bakersfield, where his father was employed by the Santa Fe Railroad and Pacific Western Oil Co. before retiring in 1954. He was the second of six children; his brother Henry was a photographer for the Bakersfield Californian. Barge attended St. Francis Parochial School and high school in Bakersfield, where he was a baseball and basketball star. He was still living in Bakersfield in July 1936 and was becoming known for his landscape paintings. He married Alice Davis, the daughter of Mrs. B.A. Davis of Bakersfield, in Beverly Hills on April 6, 1939. He began his career at the Harman-Ising
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]  Beauty and the Barge is a 1937 British comedy film directed by Henry Edwards and starring Gordon Harker, Judy Gunn and Jack Hawkins. It was produced by Julius Hagen's production company Twickenham Film Studios, but made at the Riverside Studios in Hammersmith rather than at Twickenham. It was based on the 1905 play Beauty and the Barge by W. W. Jacobs.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]  which shut down by August 1937 when Fred Quimby poached a number of its staff members to form the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer cartoon studio. Barge worked at MGM as an assistant animator and received his first screen credit as an animator on Innertube Antics, directed by George Gordon and released in 1944. Gordon's unit had been disbanded the year before, at which point Barge was placed in the William Hanna/Joseph Barbera unit which made the Tom and Jerry cartoons. Barge remained until about the time the studio closed in 1957. Hanna and Barbera opened their own studio that same year and hired Barge in 1965 for the movie The Man Called Flintstone. He remained with Hanna-Barbera until retiring in 1982. In Family Guy episode, "Road to Rupert", Barge became archive footage as Jerry's visible.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP] The Baby on the Barge  The Baby on the Barge is a 1915 British silent film drama directed by Cecil Hepworth and starring Alma Taylor and Stewart Rome. No print of the film is known to survive and it is presumed lost.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP]
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP] Solid Serenade  Solid Serenade is a 1946 one-reel animated cartoon and is the 26th "Tom and Jerry" short, produced in Technicolor and released to theatres on August 31, 1946 by Metro-Goldwyn Mayer. It was produced by Fred Quimby, directed by William Hanna and Joseph Barbera, and the musical supervision was by Scott Bradley. Ed Barge, Michael Lah, and Kenneth Muse animated it. Excerpts of this cartoon are seen in three other Tom and Jerry shorts: "Jerry's Diary", "Smitten Kitten", and "Smarty Cat", the latter instance with altered audio and an added scene of Tom whistling.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP] Young Adam (film)  Young Adam is a 2003 British erotic drama film written and directed by David Mackenzie and starring Ewan McGregor, Tilda Swinton, Peter Mullan, Ewan Stewart and Emily Mortimer. The film is based on the 1954 novel of the same name by Alexander Trocchi.
Who was the producer of The Baby on the Barge? [SEP] The Ladykillers (2004 film)  The Ladykillers is a 2004 American black comedy crime thriller film directed by Joel and Ethan Coen. The Coens' screenplay was based on the 1955 British Ealing comedy film of the same name, which was written by William Rose. The Coens produced the remake, together with Tom Jacobson, Barry Sonnenfeld, and Barry Josephson. It stars Tom Hanks, Irma P. Hall, Marlon Wayans, J. K. Simmons, Tzi Ma and Ryan Hurst, and marks the first time that the Coens have worked with Tom Hanks and the first remake by the Coens. This was the first film in which Joel and Ethan Coen share both producing and directing credits; previously Joel had always been credited as director and Ethan as producer.  "The Ladykillers" received mixed reviews and grossed $76 million worldwide. Many critics consider it one of the Coen brothers' weaker efforts, negatively comparing it to the British classic.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap (La Gabbia), also known as Collector's Item, Dead Fright and The Cage, is a 1985 erotic thriller directed by Giuseppe Patroni Griffi (his last theatrical film), and starring Tony Musante, Laura Antonelli, and Florinda Bolkan. Famed Italian horror director Lucio Fulci contributed to the screenplay (this film was done during the time Fulci was recovering from hepatitus, so he was unable to direct it). The film is based on a story called "L'Occhio", written by filmmaker Francesco Barilli. Barilli intended to make the film himself, but had trouble securing backing and balked at the producers wanting Shelly Winters in the lead role. So he sold the idea to Griffi and let him produce and direct it, retitling it The Trap. Barilli said of the finished product "Lets' talk frankly here, that movie sucks...." and Fulci even used profanity alluding to his opinion of Griffi, who he felt stole his chance to direct the film.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap was an hour-long American television dramatic anthology series about people who found themselves in situations of which they had lost control. It was broadcast on CBS from April 29, 1950. through June 24, 1950. Franklin Heller was the producer, and Joseph DeSantis was its host and narrator. Nine 60-minute episodes aired live on CBS in 1950. Its notable stars, many early in their careers, included Kim Stanley, E.G. Marshall, Leslie Nielsen, and George Reeves. The October 17, 1950, episode was "The Vanishing Lady", starring Kim Stanley and Jeff Morrow.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap is a 1913 American silent short drama film directed by Edwin August, produced by Pat Powers, and starring Murdock MacQuarrie, Pauline Bush and Lon Chaney. The film is now considered lost. Chaney would later appear in an unrelated film of the same name in 1922.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap is a 1959 color film noir directed by Norman Panama and released through Paramount Pictures. It stars Richard Widmark, Lee J. Cobb, Tina Louise, Earl Holliman, and Lorne Greene.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP]  television series Trap 1, Trap 2, and Trap 3 (drama, a gangster saga). It became the highest rated project on the Armenian television. The Russian film production "Central Partnership" purchased the license on the production of the thriller TV series. While working at Shant TV he directed the TV series Inheritors and Lucky man. In 2010 he directed the TV series Beyond for Armenia TV. By order of the Russian producer company "Bergsound" two detective films were directed: Million-dollar murder in 2012 and Pay off in 2013. He is a frequent guest and a jury member at local and international film festivals, held in the region.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP] Trap music  Trap is a subgenre of hip hop music that originated in the Southern United States during the 1990s. The genre gets its name from the Atlanta slang word "trap", a house used exclusively to sell drugs. Trap music uses synthesized drums and is characterized by complex hi-hat patterns, tuned kick drums with a long decay (originally from the Roland TR-808 drum machine), and lyrical content that often focuses on drug use and urban violence. It utilizes very few instruments and focuses almost exclusively on snare drums and double- or triple-timed hi-hats.  Pioneers of the genre include producers Kurtis Mantronik, Mannie Fresh, Shawty Redd, Fatboi, Zaytoven, DJ Screw and Toomp, along with rappers Young Jeezy, Gucci Mane and T.I. (who coined the term with his 2003 album "Trap Muzik"). The modern trap sound was popularized by producer Lex Luger, who produced the influential Waka Flocka Flame album "Flockaveli" in 2010, and cofounded the prolific hip-hop production team 808 Mafia.<ref name=":1" />  Since crossing over into the mainstream in the 2010s, trap has become one of the most popular forms of American music, consistently dominating the "Billboard" Hot 100 throughout the decade, with artists such as Drake, Future, Cardi B, 21 Savage, Migos, Lil Uzi Vert, Post Malone, XXXTentacion, Young Thug, and Travis Scott (among many others) all achieving No. 1s on the chart with songs featuring production inspired by the trap subgenre. It has influenced the music of many pop and R&B artists, such as Ariana Grande, Beyoncé, Miley Cyrus, Rihanna and more. Its influence can also be heard in reggaetón and K-pop. 2019 saw mega “Trap” hits such as, Ariana Grande “7 rings” pop-trap and spending 8 weeks at No. 1 on the “Billboard” Hot 100 chart. Another influenced song was the country-trap song "Old Town Road" by Lil Nas X (featuring Billy Ray Cyrus) broke the record for spending the most weeks (19 weeks) at No. 1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart, as well as becoming the fastest song to reach a Diamond Certification.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP] Trap Muzik  Trap Muzik is the second studio album by the American rapper T.I., released on August 19, 2003, by Atlantic and his newly founded record label Grand Hustle. Due to the poor sales on T.I.'s first album, "I'm Serious" (2001), T.I. asked for a joint venture deal with Arista Records or to be released from his contract; he was subsequently dropped from the label. In 2002, T.I. launched Grand Hustle with his longtime business partner Jason Geter and signed a new deal with Atlantic Records.<ref name="T.I.: Biography"/>  The album spawned the hit singles "24's", "Be Easy", "Rubber Band Man", and "Let's Get Away". The album features guest appearances from 8Ball & MJG, Jazze Pha, Bun B and Mac Boney. With T.I.'s longtime record producer DJ Toomp as an executive producer for this album. "Trap Muzik" debuted at number four on the US "Billboard" 200 and number two on the US Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums, selling 110,000 copies in the first week. The album was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  Upon its release, "Trap Muzik" received generally favorable reviews from most music critics, who generally regarded it as a major improvement from "I'm Serious". In 2012, Complex named the album one of the classic albums of the last decade.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP] Trap Queen  "Trap Queen" is the debut single by American rapper Fetty Wap from his self-titled debut album (2015). Following its online premiere in March 2014, it was released independently on April 22, 2014, before being re-released in conjunction with 300 Entertainment on December 15, 2014. The song was well received by critics who praised the vocals and production for being cheery and infectious.  "Trap Queen" was a sleeper hit, becoming Fetty Wap's first entry on the "Billboard" Hot 100 in mid-2015 and ultimately went on to be a top ten hit, peaking at number two; the song spent 25 consecutive weeks in the top ten. Outside the United States, "Trap Queen" peaked within the top ten of the charts in Denmark and the United Kingdom. An accompanying music video for the song, directed by Nitt Da Gritt, was released on his YouTube page that features Wap and his girlfriend partying at their apartment. He first performed the song on television at the 2015 MTV Movie Awards with Fall Out Boy and would make later appearances at "The Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon", "Jimmy Kimmel Live!", "Nick Cannon Presents Wild 'n Out" and the BET Awards 2015 to perform the song. The song received two nominations at the 58th Grammy Awards: Best Rap Song and Best Rap Performance.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP] Lex Luger (record producer)  Lexus Arnel Lewis (born March 6, 1991), professionally known as Lex Luger, is an American record producer. His stage name is inspired by the famous WCW/WWF professional wrestler Lex Luger. He co-founded the American hip hop production team 808 Mafia with Southside. Luger is also a member of the hip hop production duo Low Pros with A-Trak and the VABP (Virginia Boyz Productionz), a hip hop group that he founded in high school.
Who was the producer of The Trap? [SEP] Southside (record producer)  Joshua Howard Luellen (born February 2, 1989), professionally known as Southside (also known as Sizzle), is an American record producer, songwriter and rapper. He gained recognition in the hip hop industry for producing songs for prominent artists across the American hip hop sphere. In 2010, Southside and fellow 1017 label-mate Lex Luger, established their production and songwriting team 808 Mafia, where Southside currently is at the helm of the group. The basis of his stage name is the place where Luellen grew up, Southside, in Atlanta, Georgia.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP]  The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show is a 1917 Australian rural comedy from director Beaumont Smith. It was the third in his series about the rural family, the Hayseeds. It is considered a lost film.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP]  Dad Hayseed and his friends from Stoney Creek, including Dad Duggan, Cousin Harold, Sam, Tom, Poppy, Molly, Peter, Hopkins and M'Arthur, decide to hold an agricultural show. They go to Brisbane to ask the Governor of Queensland to open it and he agrees. They form a brass band to play, and the show is a great success.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP]  Like the first two Hayseed movies, Beaumont Smith used local appeal to make them attractive to audiences. This one was shot around Brisbane. It was followed by The Hayseeds' Melbourne Cup.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] Fred MacDonald as Jim Hayseed ; Tal Ordell as Dad Hayseed ; Harry McDonna as Cousin Harold ; Agnes Dobson ; Collet Dobson
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show (1917) ; The Hayseeds Come to Sydney (1917) ; The Hayseeds' Melbourne Cup (1918) ; On Our Selection (1932) ; The Squatter's Daughter (1933) ; The Silence of Dean Maitland (1934) ; Grandad Rudd (1935) ; Dad and Dave Come to Town ; Dad Rudd, MP (1940)
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show  The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show is a 1917 Australian rural comedy from director Beaumont Smith. It was the third in his series about the rural family, the Hayseeds.  It is considered a lost film.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] The Hayseeds Come to Sydney  The Hayseeds Come to Sydney (also known as The Hayseeds Come to Town) is a 1917 Australian rural comedy from director Beaumont Smith.  The second in the Hayseeds series of movies, is considered a lost film.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] A. O. Segerberg  Albert Oscar Segerberg (1881—13 July 1941) was an Australian cameraman. He began shooting films as early as 1896, and later worked as a cameraman for Pathé Frères, the Australian Photo-Play Company and the Fraser brothers. He shot large numbers of newsreels, and industrial and educational documentaries, including his own series, "Australia at Work".<ref name= "Pike">Andrew Pike and Ross Cooper, "Australian Film 1900–1977: A Guide to Feature Film Production", Melbourne: Oxford University Press, 1998, p 32</ref>  Segerberg claimed to have taken the first moving pictures in Australia at the 1896 Melbourne Cup and shown it in the Opera House, Melbourne.
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP] Beaumont Smith  Frank Beaumont "Beau" Smith (15 August 1885 – 2 January 1950), was an Australian film director, producer and exhibitor, best known for making low-budget comedies.  Smith made his first film in 1917, "Our Friends, the Hayseeds". He went on to become one of the most prolific and popular Australian filmmakers of the silent era. Among his films were adaptations of the works of Banjo Paterson and Henry Lawson. His 1933 comedy "The Hayseeds" featured the first screen appearance of Cecil Kellaway.  Smith was famous for making his films quickly – sometimes he would complete shooting and post production within one month for budgets ranging from £600 to £1,200. His wife Elsie would comment on his scripts and his brother Gordon looked after company finances. He was sometimes known as "One Shot Beau" or "That'll Do Beau".
Who was the producer of The Hayseeds' Back-blocks Show? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP]  Ghost is a Scottish record producer based in London, who primarily produces British hip hop. His stage name is a reference to his tendency to spend a lot of time working in his studio, rather than being seen in public. He has been described by some journalists as one of the UK's top hip hop producers. Ghost also presented the Midweek Session on London radio station Itch FM.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP]  Production commenced in September 2012.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP]  Steven-Charles Jaffe (born 1951) is an American film producer, director, and screenwriter known for his work on such films as Motel Hell (1980), Near Dark (1987), Strange Days (1995), and the Best Picture-nominated romantic fantasy film Ghost. He is a long-time friend and collaborator of directors Nicholas Meyer and Kathryn Bigelow, and has worked with them on films like Time After Time (1979), Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country (1991), and K-19: The Widowmaker (2002). He is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Matt Sorum Worked as a producer in the mid 1990s and experienced a ghost in the studio located 7000 Santa Monica Blvd; West Hollywood, CA 90038-1012.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP]  Ghost Story is a 1974 British mystery film directed by Stephen Weeks and starring Marianne Faithfull, Leigh Lawson, Larry Dann and Anthony Bate. Although set in England, the film was almost entirely shot on location in India, much of it at Bangalore Palace, owned by the Maharajah of Mysore. The film features a rare performance from actor Vivian MacKerrell, who was later the inspiration for Withnail in Bruce Robinson's Withnail and I. The story and screenplay are by Philip Norman, Rosemary Sutcliff and Stephen Weeks and music is composed by Ron Geesin. In a 2017 interview for "The Bill Podcast", actor Larry Dann revealed he has never been paid for his work on the film.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (producer)  Ghost is a Scottish record producer based in London, who primarily produces British hip hop. His stage name is a reference to his tendency to spend a lot of time working in his studio, rather than being seen in public. He has been described by some journalists as one of the UK's top hip hop producers.  Ghost also presented the "Midweek Session" on London radio station Itch FM.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (1990 film)  Ghost is a 1990 American romantic fantasy film directed by Jerry Zucker from a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin, and starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg, Tony Goldwyn, Vincent Schiavelli, and Rick Aviles. The plot centers on Sam Wheat (Swayze), a murdered banker, whose ghost sets out to save his girlfriend, Molly Jensen (Moore), from the person who killed him – through the help of the psychic Oda Mae Brown (Goldberg).  "Ghost" was theatrically released on July 13, 1990, to commercial success, grossing $505 million against a budget of $22–23 million and emerging as the highest-grossing film of 1990 and at the time of its release, was the third-highest-grossing film of all time. The film received positive reviews from critics, with particular praise going towards the score and performances of the cast. "Ghost" earned five nominations at the 63rd Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Score, Best Film Editing, and winning Best Supporting Actress for Goldberg and Best Original Screenplay for Rubin.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghosts (American TV series)  Ghosts is a British television sitcom adapted to American television for CBS by Joe Port and Joe Wiseman from the British series of the same name. The American series premiered on October 7, 2021.<ref name="SeriesPremiere"/> In October 2021, the series was picked up for a full season.<ref name="Fullseasoorder"/> In January 2022, the series was renewed for a second season<ref name="S2Renewal"/> which premiered on September 29, 2022.<ref name="S2premieredate"/> Port & Wiseman serve as showrunners.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (Justin Bieber song)  "Ghost" is a song by Canadian singer Justin Bieber. It was sent to French radio stations through Universal Music Group on September 10, 2021, as the sixth and final single from his sixth studio album, "Justice". Bieber wrote the song with producers Jon Bellion and the Monsters & Strangerz (Jordan K. Johnson and Stefan Johnson), alongside Michael Pollack.<ref name="AS"/> Commercially, "Ghost" reached number one in Malaysia and Singapore and charted within the top ten in Canada, Indonesia, Ireland, Lebanon, the Philippines, and the United States.
Who was the producer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost Adventures  Ghost Adventures is an American paranormal and reality television series that premiered on October 17, 2008, on the Travel Channel before moving to Discovery+ in 2021. An independent film of the same name originally aired on the Sci-Fi Channel on July 25, 2007. The program follows ghost hunters Zak Bagans, Nick Groff (season 1–10), Aaron Goodwin, Billy Tolley, and Jay Wasley as they investigate locations that are reported to be haunted.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP]  From Now On (Daqui P'ra Frente) is a 2007 Portuguese film directed by Catarina Ruivo, written by Ruivo and Antonio Figueiredo and produced by Paulo Branco. The film stars Luís Miguel Cintra, Adelaide de Sousa, Antonio Figueiredo, Edgar Morais and Alexandre Pinto.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP]  From Now On screened for the first time in 2007 at the Rio Film Festival, (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) and was widely released in Portugal, France and Germany on September 18, 2007. The official premiere took place in Lisbon, Portugal on January 24, 2008.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] Notes ; undefined signifies a co-producer
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] All tracks produced by Metro Boomin and Southside.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP]  From Now On is the second extended play by American rapper Dreezy. It was released December 25, 2015. The entire EP was produced by Metro Boomin and Southside.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] Apocalypse Now  Apocalypse Now is a 1979 American epic war film produced and directed by Francis Ford Coppola. The screenplay, co-written by Coppola, John Milius and Michael Herr, is loosely based on the 1899 novella "Heart of Darkness" by Joseph Conrad, with the setting changed from late 19th-century Congo to the Vietnam War. The film follows a river journey from South Vietnam into Cambodia undertaken by Captain Willard (Martin Sheen), who is on a secret mission to assassinate Colonel Kurtz (Marlon Brando), a renegade Special Forces officer who is accused of murder and presumed insane. The ensemble cast also features Robert Duvall, Frederic Forrest, Albert Hall, Sam Bottoms, Laurence Fishburne and Dennis Hopper.  Milius became interested in adapting "Heart of Darkness" for a Vietnam War setting in the late 1960s, and initially began developing the film with Coppola as producer and George Lucas as director. After Lucas became unavailable, Coppola took over directorial control, and was influenced by Werner Herzog's "Aguirre, the Wrath of God" (1972) in his approach to the material. Initially set to be a five-month shoot in the Philippines starting in March 1976, a series of problems lengthened it to over a year. These problems included expensive sets being destroyed by severe weather, Brando showing up on set overweight and completely unprepared, and Sheen having a breakdown and suffering a near-fatal heart attack on location. After photography was finally finished in May 1977, the release was postponed several times while Coppola edited over a million feet of film. Much of these difficulties are chronicled in the documentary "" (1991).  "Apocalypse Now" was honored with the Palme d'Or at the Cannes Film Festival, where it premiered unfinished. When it was finally released on August 15, 1979, by United Artists, it performed well at the box office, grossing $40 million domestically and eventually over $100 million worldwide. Initial reviews were mixed; while Vittorio Storaro's cinematography was widely acclaimed, several critics found Coppola's handling of the story's major themes anticlimactic and intellectually disappointing. The film was nominated for eight Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Director (Coppola), and Best Supporting Actor (Duvall); it went on to win Best Cinematography and Best Sound.  "Apocalypse Now" is today considered one of the greatest films ever made; for instance, it ranked 14th and 19th in "Sight & Sound"s greatest films poll in 2012 and 2022 respectively. In 2000, the film was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the U.S. Library of Congress as "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant".
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] Democracy Now!  Democracy Now! is an hour-long American TV, radio, and Internet news program hosted by journalists Amy Goodman (who also acts as the show's executive producer), Juan González,  The program combines news reporting, interviews, investigative journalism and political commentary, with a focus on peace activism linked to environmental justice and social justice, guided by the ethics of ecofeminism as a philosophy. It documents social movements, struggles for justice, activism challenging corporate power and operates as a watchdog outfit regarding the effects of American foreign policy. by fans as well as critics, but Goodman rejects that label, calling the program a global newscast that has "people speaking for themselves".  Democracy Now Productions, the independent media nonprofit organization which produces "Democracy Now!," and foundations such as the Park Foundation, Ford Foundation, Lannan Foundation, and the J.M. Kaplan Fund. "Democracy Now!" does not accept advertisers, corporate underwriting or government funding. The show has become popular on the internet, and from the late 2010s onward, has been involved in pioneering extensive media cooperation in the public sphere across the US.<ref name="Marmura99"/>
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] What Now  What Now is a New Zealand children's television programme that premiered on Saturday 9 May 1981. It is currently filmed before a live audience at a different school in New Zealand, which is selected every week.  The show airs every Sunday at 8.30 am on TVNZ 2 and has such as Tamariki Titans, DareDevil Levels and Hoover Hover. It has no adverts, due to the Broadcasting Act 1989 which states that no commercial advertising can be shown on New Zealand television between 6 am and noon on Sundays.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] From Now On (Lil Baby song)  "From Now On" is a song by American rapper Lil Baby from his third studio album "It's Only Me" (2022). It features American rapper Future and was produced by Tay Keith and Murda Beatz.
Who was the producer of From Now On? [SEP] Look at Me Now (Chris Brown song)  "Look at Me Now" is a song by American singer and rapper Chris Brown featuring fellow American rappers Lil Wayne and Busta Rhymes released as the second single from Brown's fourth studio album "F.A.M.E." on February 1, 2011. The artists co-wrote the song with its producers Afrojack, Diplo, and Free School, with additional writing from Ryan Buendia. Musically, "Look at Me Now" is a "dirty south–inspired" hip hop song that features "thumping bass, spacy synth and horn jam sounds."  Critical reception towards the song was positive, where critics noted it as a standout track on the album, and praised Busta Rhymes and Lil Wayne's rap verses. "Look at Me Now" proved to be successful in the United States, where it reached number six on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart, making it Brown's highest chart position since "Forever" (2008). It also reached number one on the Hot Rap Songs and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts. Internationally, the song charted in Australia, Canada, France, New Zealand and the United Kingdom.  An accompanying music video was directed by Colin Tilley and filmed in Los Angeles, California. It features numerous scenes of Brown, Busta Rhymes, and Lil Wayne in a smoke-filled, graffiti-covered parking garage, where a "Step Up"-type dance-off is held. The video received a positive response from critics for displaying various colors and intricate routines performed by Brown and several dancers. The song won three awards at the 2011 BET Awards for Best Collaboration, Viewer's Choice and Video of the Year. Several artists have covered the song and released their own remixes, including Karmin, Justin Bieber, Trey Songz and Da Brat.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP]  John Heriot's Wife (De vrouw van de minister) is a 1920 Dutch-British silent crime film directed by Maurits Binger.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] Mary Odette - Camilla Rivers ; Lola Cornero - Tante Lady Foxborough ; Henry Victor - John Heriot ; Annie Bos - Weduwe Clara Headcombe (as Anna Bosilova) ; Adelqui Migliar - Eric Ashlyn ; Renee Spiljar ; Carl Tobi ; Alex Benno ; Reginald Lawson ; Leni Marcus ; Fred Homann
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP]  Heriot, now living in London, had mortgaged his pay to help support his parents, and was without any source of income. In an attempt to support himself, he wrote two novels - The Sorrows of the Heart (1787), and  The Half-Pay Officer (1789), the latter of which was semi-autobiographical. These raised enough to support him for two years, during which time he married Alison Shiriff, with whom he had two daughters. He was hired as one of a number of journalists who wrote pamphlets and newspaper articles in support of the government during the winter of 1788–89, when George III's insanity had become a matter of very contentious debate. After the insanity crisis had passed, he was put on a permanent salary to continue this work; by 1791, he was drawing
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP]  John Heriot (22 April 1760 – 2 August 1833) was a Scottish journalist and writer. He was forced to join the Royal Marines due to family hardship, and served as a junior officer during the American Revolutionary War. He was wounded in 1780 at the Battle of Martinique, and retired from the service in 1783; after living in financial difficulties for some years, he published two moderately successful novels in the 1780s, the second of which drew extensively on his experiences as a half-pay officer. He was recruited as a pro-government journalist and pamphleteer in 1788, and placed on a salary the following year. He became the founder and sole editor of two pro-government daily newspapers, the Sun and the True Briton, which ran for over a decade, and eventually retired from journalistic work in 1806. He was appointed to a number of government posts, most significantly the comptrollership of Chelsea Hospital, the post he held at his death. He was a distant relative of the philanthropist George Heriot, and the younger brother of the Scots-Canadian artist George Heriot.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP]  America. These successes included Steptoe and Son, which became Sanford and Son in the US, and Till Death Us Do Part, which was turned into All in the Family. In 1975, she was a co-executive producer of the cinema version of The Who's rock opera Tommy, directed by Ken Russell and starring Roger Daltrey. In the 1980s, Vertue formed Hartswood Films, which has produced many comedies including Men Behaving Badly, Is It Legal?, and Coupling. The latter was produced by her daughter Sue Vertue and written by son-in-law Steven Moffat. She also served as executive producer of their dramatic series Sherlock.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] John Heriot's Wife  John Heriot's Wife () is a 1920 Dutch-British silent crime film directed by Maurits Binger.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] John Heriot (journalist)  John Heriot (22 April 1760 – 2 August 1833) was a Scottish journalist and writer.  He was forced to join the Royal Marines due to family hardship, and served as a junior officer during the American Revolutionary War. He was wounded in 1780 at the Battle of Martinique, and retired from the service in 1783; after living in financial difficulties for some years, he published two moderately successful novels in the 1780s, the second of which drew extensively on his experiences as a half-pay officer.  He was recruited as a pro-government journalist and pamphleteer in 1788, and placed on a salary the following year. He became the founder and sole editor of two pro-government daily newspapers, the "Sun" and the "True Briton", which ran for over a decade, and eventually retired from journalistic work in 1806. He was appointed to a number of government posts, most significantly the comptrollership of Chelsea Hospital, the post he held at his death.  He was a distant relative of the philanthropist George Heriot, and the younger brother of the Scots-Canadian artist George Heriot.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] Adelqui Migliar  Adelqui Migliar (5 August 1891 – 6 August 1956), also known as Adelqui Millar, was a Chilean film actor, director, writer and producer. He appeared in 31 silent films between 1916 and 1928. He also directed 24 films between 1922 and 1954. He was born in Concepción, Chile, and lived and worked in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. He died in Santiago, Chile.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] John Heriot (footballer)  John Heriot (born 6 January 1940) is a former Australian rules footballer who played with South Melbourne in the VFL during the 1960s. He played as a fullback although he would sometimes be pushed into the forwardline. Of skinny build, Heriot was named in the fullback position in South Melbourne's official 'Team of Century'. He typically played in short-sleeve jumpers (a compromise between the traditional sleeveless jumper and the alternatives that have long sleeves). He later coached VFA Division 2 side Yarraville.
Who was the producer of John Heriot's Wife? [SEP] B. E. Doxat-Pratt  Bernard Edwin Doxat-Pratt (born 1886 in London) was a British film director who worked for Anglo-Hollandia and Granger-Binger.<ref name=eye />
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP]  L'ombrellone or Weekend, Italian Style  is a 1966 Italian comedy-drama film directed by Dino Risi. It was co-produced with Spain and France. The soundtrack is full of Italian Pop songs from the 1960s.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP]  In 1940 he established his own company, "Schuberth Emilio" located on via Lazio n. 9, however because of the popularity he moved locations within the same year to via XX Settembre n. 4, where his atelier remained. The inside of the atelier was designed and decorated similarly to the Parisian ateliers. His clothing highlighted la bella figura, the Italian feminine ideal of “sensuality, grace, and love of leisure,” which was a popular aesthetic during the 1950s and often seen in Italian cinema from the postwar-era. His popularity as a designer grew starting around December 1948 during the fashion show, ''French Fashion? Italian fashion'' at Casino de la Vallée in
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Divorce Italian Style (1961) - Politician ; La vita agra (1964) - Swiss man (uncredited) ; Countersex (1964) - (segment "Cocaina di domenica") (uncredited) ; Made in Italy (1965) - The Snob (segment "1 'Usi e costumi', episode 1") ; Pleasant Nights (1966) - Friend of Luca ; Fantabulous Inc. (1967) - The Director of Commercial ; Caprice Italian Style (1968) - L'automobilista (segment "Perche"?") / Principe consorte (segment "Viaggio di lavoro") ; Operation Snafu (1970) ; Il trapianto (1970) - The tall Envoy of the Weisses-Kreuz Klinik ; The Divorce (1970) - Marco ; Dorian Gray (1970) - Pornografic Editor (uncredited)
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP]  Caprice Italian Style (Capriccio all'italiana) is a 1968 Italian comedy film directed by six different directors, including Mario Monicelli and Pier Paolo Pasolini. The film starred both Totò and the comedy team of Franco and Ciccio.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP]  Luigi Federico Creatore (December 21, 1921 – December 13, 2015) was an American songwriter and record producer. Creatore was born in New York City in 1921, the son of noted Italian-born bandleader and composer Giuseppe Creatore. After serving with the United States military during World War II, in the 1950s he became a writer then partnered with his cousin, Hugo Peretti to form the songwriting team of Hugo & Luigi which also produced other records. In 1957, they bought into Roulette Records where they both wrote songs for various artists such as Valerie Carr and produced major hits for Jimmie Rodgers including "Honeycomb" (Billboard #1) and "Kisses Sweeter Than Wine" (Billboard #3), and "Oh-Oh, I'm Falling in Love Again" and
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Marriage Italian Style  Marriage Italian Style ( ) is a 1964 romantic comedy-drama film directed by Vittorio De Sica, starring Sophia Loren and Marcello Mastroianni.  The film was adapted by Leonardo Benvenuti, Renato Castellani, Piero De Bernardi, and Tonino Guerra from the play "Filumena Marturano" by Eduardo De Filippo. "Filumena Marturano" had previously been adapted as a 1950 Argentine film.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Divorce Italian Style  Divorce Italian Style () is a 1961 Italian dark comedy film directed by Pietro Germi. The screenplay is by Germi, Ennio De Concini, Alfredo Giannetti, and Agenore Incrocci, based on Giovanni Arpino's novel "Un delitto d'onore" ("Honour Killing"). It stars Marcello Mastroianni, Daniela Rocca, Stefania Sandrelli, Lando Buzzanca, and Leopoldo Trieste. The movie won the Academy Award for Best Writing, Story and Screenplay – Written Directly for the Screen; Mastroianni was nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role and Germi for Best Director.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Italian beef  An Italian beef sandwich, originating in Chicago, is composed of thin slices of seasoned roast beef, simmered and served on a long French roll. The sandwich's history dates back at least to the 1930s. The bread itself is, at the diner's preference, often dipped (or double-dipped) into the juice the meat is cooked in, and the sandwich is typically topped off with Chicago-style giardiniera (called "hot") or sauteed, green Italian sweet peppers (called "sweet").  Italian beef sandwiches are commonly found at many area hot dog stands, pizzerias and Italian-American restaurants in Chicagoland. Chicago expatriates have opened restaurants serving Italian beef in other places. In the United States, demand for the sandwich spiked with the popularity of the television show "The Bear," set in a fictional Chicago restaurant.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Italian cuisine  Italian cuisine (, ) is a Mediterranean cuisine consisting of the ingredients, recipes and cooking techniques developed across the Italian Peninsula and later spread around the world together with waves of Italian diaspora. Some of these foods were imported from other cultures. Significant changes occurred with the colonization of the Americas and the introduction of potatoes, tomatoes, capsicums, maize and sugar beet — the latter introduced in quantity in the 18th century. It is one of the best-known and most appreciated gastronomies worldwide.  Italian cuisine includes deeply rooted traditions common to the whole country, as well as all the regional gastronomies, different from each other, especially between the north, the centre and the south of Italy, which are in continuous exchange. Many dishes that were once regional have proliferated with variations throughout the country. Italian cuisine offers an abundance of taste, and is one of the most popular and copied around the world. The cuisine has influenced several other cuisines around the world, chiefly that of the United States.  One of the main characteristics of Italian cuisine is its simplicity, with many dishes made up of few ingredients, and therefore Italian cooks often rely on the quality of the ingredients, rather than the complexity of preparation. Italian cuisine is at the origin of a turnover of more than €200 billion worldwide. The most popular dishes and recipes, over the centuries, have often been created by ordinary people more so than by chefs, which is why many Italian recipes are suitable for home and daily cooking, respecting regional specificities, privileging only raw materials and ingredients from the region of origin of the dish and preserving its seasonality.   The Mediterranean diet forms the basis of Italian cuisine, rich in pasta, fish, fruits and vegetables. Cheese, cold cuts and wine are central to Italian cuisine, and along with pizza and coffee (especially espresso) form part of Italian gastronomic culture. Desserts have a long tradition of merging local flavours such as citrus fruits, pistachio and almonds with sweet cheeses like mascarpone and ricotta or exotic tastes as cocoa, vanilla and cinnamon. Gelato, tiramisù and cassata are among the most famous examples of Italian desserts, cakes and patisserie. Italian cuisine relies heavily on traditional products; the country has a large number of traditional specialities protected under EU law. Italy is the world's largest producer of wine, as well as the country with the widest variety of indigenous grapevine varieties in the world.
Who was the producer of Italian Style? [SEP] Eurobeat  Eurobeat refers to two styles of dance music that originated in Europe: one is a British variant of Italian dance-pop, and the other is a hi-NRG-driven form of Italo disco. Both forms were developed in the 1980s.  Producer trio Stock Aitken Waterman and pop band Dead or Alive made Eurobeat music more popular in the United States, where Eurobeat was historically marketed as hi-NRG (pronounced as "high energy"). For a short while, it also shared this term with early freestyle music and Italo disco.
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP]  Emmerdale, Brass Eye, Da Ali G Show and Coronation Street. Some BBC programmes (the early series of My Family were one example) were also released by VCI. Confusion often arose between this UK-based company, and the Tulsa, Oklahoma-based home video label VCI Entertainment, founded in 1976 by Bill Blair. Perhaps as a result of this, when VCI entered the American market in the early 1990s, they went under the name of Strand VCI Entertainment, and then Strand Home Video; this operation was sold in 1993 to budget video label Video Treasures (later a core component of Anchor Bay Entertainment), who completed the label's absorption in 1994.
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP]  The Strand was the BBC World Service's daily arts show. It was launched on Monday 27 October 2008. The last weekday edition was aired on Friday 29 March 2013, and the last weekly summary on the subsequent weekend. It was regularly hosted by Harriett Gilbert, Mark Coles, Audrey Brown - who also presented the BBC's flagship African News and Current Affairs programmes Focus on Africa and Network Africa, Anna McNamee, and Bidisha. The programme's title came from the Strand, a busy street in London close to the World Service's former studios at Bush House on Aldwych.
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP]  Strand of Oaks is the rock project by songwriter and producer Timothy Showalter. Originally from Indiana, he currently resides in Austin. His music has been classified as rock and folk, as well as folk rock. Showalter has released seven studio albums—Leave Ruin (2009), Pope Killdragon (2010), Dark Shores (2012), Heal (2014), Hard Love (2017), Eraserland (2019) and In Heaven (2021).
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Paulette Randall, actor and producer. ; Tim Roth, actor, who joined Dick Sheppard on the closure of Strand School (see above). ; Nicola Armstrong Edgar, nee MacPherson, international diplomat and global chief executive. ; Douglas Ankrah inventor of the p*rnstar martini and owner of the LAB bar in Soho in 1999, and Townhouse in Knightsbridge
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP]  The strand was a successor to The Wednesday Play, the 1960s anthology series, the title being changed when the day of transmission became variable. Some works, screened in anthology series' on BBC2, like Willy Russell's Our Day Out (1977), were repeated on BBC1 in the series. The producers of The Wednesday Play, Graeme MacDonald and Irene Shubik, transferred to the new series. Shubik continued with the series until 1973 while MacDonald remained with the series until 1977 when he was promoted. Later producers included Kenith Trodd (1973–1982), David Rose (1972–1980), Innes Lloyd (1975–1982), Margaret Matheson (1977–1979), Richard Eyre (1978–1980) and Pharic MacLaren (1974–1982). Plays covered all genres. In its time, Play for Today featured contemporary social realist dramas, historical
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Strand of Oaks  Strand of Oaks is the rock project by songwriter and producer Timothy Showalter. Originally from Indiana, he currently resides in Austin. His music has been classified as rock and folk, as well as folk rock.  Showalter has released seven studio albums—"Leave Ruin" (2009), "Pope Killdragon" (2010), "Dark Shores" (2012), "Heal" (2014), "Hard Love" (2017), "Eraserland" (2019) and "In Heaven" (2021).
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Annie (singer)  Anne Lilia Berge Strand (born 21 November 1977), known professionally as Annie, is a Norwegian singer, songwriter, record producer and DJ. She began her recording career in 1999 with the underground hit single "The Greatest Hit" and gained international acclaim, particularly from music bloggers, for her debut album "Anniemal" (2004).  After completing secondary school, Annie started DJing in Bergen, where she met house producer and soon-to-be boyfriend Tore Kroknes. In 1999, Annie and Kroknes released the single "The Greatest Hit", which sold out in two days and became popular in Norwegian and British nightclubs. Before Annie and Kroknes could release an album, Kroknes died from a congenital heart defect in 2001. Annie went on to sign a record deal with Britain's 679 Recordings in 2003, releasing her debut album "Anniemal" in 2004, for which she received widespread critical acclaim and several Norwegian music awards. She released her second studio album, "Don't Stop", on the Smalltown Supersound label in 2009. Annie lives in Berlin.  Annie has been described as "a pop singer with credibility, an indie artist with one eye on the dancefloor" and as "the Norwegian Kylie".<ref name=Fjord /> Annie describes her music as "pop with strange edges".<ref name=autogenerated1 />
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Isak Strand  Isak Barosen Strand (born 8 March 1982 in Bergen, Norway), is a Norwegian musician (drums), sound engineering, music producer and composer living in Oslo, known from different musical projects such as electro, techno and crossover stuff such as "Moen Meets Me at Sea".
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Do the Strand  "Do the Strand" is the first song from English rock band Roxy Music's second album, "For Your Pleasure". In contrast to the songs from Roxy Music's eponymous debut album, this song starts suddenly without any instrumental fanfare.  Like the rest of the album, the song was recorded at AIR Studios, Oxford Street, London.
Who was the producer of Strand? [SEP] Death Stranding  Death Stranding is a 2019 action game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the first game from director Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions after their split from Konami in 2015. A Windows port licensed by Sony was released by 505 Games in July 2020. A director's cut version was released for the PlayStation 5 in September 2021, followed by a release for Windows in March 2022.  The game is set in the United States following a cataclysmic event which caused destructive creatures to begin roaming the Earth. Players control Sam Porter Bridges (Norman Reedus), a courier tasked with delivering supplies to isolated colonies and reconnecting them via a wireless communications network. Alongside Reedus, the game features actors Mads Mikkelsen, Léa Seydoux, Margaret Qualley, Troy Baker, Tommie Earl Jenkins, and Lindsay Wagner, in addition to the likenesses of film directors Guillermo del Toro and Nicolas Winding Refn as supporting characters.  "Death Stranding" received generally positive reviews, with critics praising its voice acting, soundtrack, and visuals, with more mixed opinions regarding its gameplay and story. The game was nominated for and won several awards, including for game of the year. By July 2021, the game had sold copies worldwide. Numerous commentators later noted that elements of the game resembled the COVID-19 pandemic, which began within a month of its original release.  A sequel, "Death Stranding 2", is in development for PlayStation 5. A film adaptation is also in the works.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP]  The Thing We Love is a 1918 American silent drama film starring Wallace Reid, Kathlyn Williams, and Tully Marshall, produced by Jesse Lasky, distributed by Paramount Pictures, and directed by Lou Tellegen. This marked Tellegen's second foray into directing as he usually was a leading man in front of the camera like Reid.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP]  This film is now considered a lost film.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] John Snyder – producer ; Jay Newland, Joe Lopes – engineer
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP]  single, "One Thing", peaked at number 14 on the Australian Kent Music Report Singles Chart. Due to the success of the song Murphy hired Opitz to produce three more songs. Murphy also approached WEA Australia with copies of the song, leading to INXS signing a recording deal in July 1982 with WEA for releases in Australia, South East Asia, Japan and New Zealand, Atco Records (a subsidiary of Atlantic Records) for North America and Polygram for Europe and the UK. Shabooh Shoobah was released in the United States in February 1983 and peaked at number 46 on the Billboard 200 album chart. "The One Thing" brought INXS their first Top 40
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] Produced by Kerry Fahey
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] The Things We Do for Love (song)  "The Things We Do for Love" is a song by British band 10cc, released as a single in 1976. It later featured on the album "Deceptive Bends" released in 1977 and was the group's first release after the departure of band members Kevin Godley and Lol Creme.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] Only Things We Love  Only Things We Love is the fourth studio album by American electronica band Blaqk Audio, consisting of Davey Havok and Jade Puget of AFI. The album was released on March 15, 2019. Ahead of the album, the duo released "The Viles".
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] The Thing We Love  The Thing We Love is a 1918 American silent drama film starring Wallace Reid, Kathlyn Williams, and Tully Marshall, produced by Jesse Lasky, distributed by Paramount Pictures, and directed by Lou Tellegen. This marked Tellegen's second foray into directing as he usually was a leading man in front of the camera like Reid.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] Things We Do for Love (Ghanaian TV series)  Things We Do for Love is a Ghanaian television series. It was telecast on GTV in 2003 to educate youth about sexuality.
Who was the producer of The Thing We Love? [SEP] I Love Lucy  I Love Lucy is an American television sitcom that originally aired on CBS from October 15, 1951, to May 6, 1957, with a total of 180 half-hour episodes, spanning six seasons. The show starred Lucille Ball, her husband, Desi Arnaz, along with Vivian Vance and William Frawley. The series followed the life of Lucy Ricardo (Ball), a young, middle-class housewife living in New York City, who often concocted plans with her best friends and landlords, Ethel and Fred Mertz (Vance and Frawley), to appear alongside her bandleader husband, Ricky Ricardo (Arnaz), in his nightclub. Lucy is depicted trying numerous schemes to mingle with and be a part of show business. After the series ended in 1957, a modified version of the show continued for three more seasons, with 13 one-hour specials, which ran from 1957 to 1960. It was first known as "The Lucille Ball–Desi Arnaz Show," and later, in reruns, as "The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour".  "I Love Lucy" became the most-watched show in the United States in four of its six seasons and it was the first to end its run at the top of the Nielsen ratings. As of 2011, episodes of the show have been syndicated in dozens of languages across the world and remain popular with an American audience of 40 million each year. A colorized version of its Christmas episode attracted more than eight million viewers when CBS aired it in prime time in 2013, 62 years after the show premiered. CBS has aired two to three colorized episodes each year since then, once at Christmas and again in the spring.  The show – which was the first scripted television program to be shot on 35 mm film in front of a studio audience, by cinematographer Karl Freund – won five Emmy Awards and received many nominations and honors. It was the first show to feature an ensemble cast. As such, it is often regarded as both one of the greatest and most influential sitcoms in history. In 2012, it was voted the 'Best TV Show of All Time' in a survey conducted by ABC News and "People" magazine.
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP]  One of Those (Una di quelle, also known as Totò, Peppino e... una di quelle) is a 1953 Italian comedy-drama film produced, written, directed and starred by Aldo Fabrizi.
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] Days of Wine and Roses (producer, 1962) ; Dear Heart (producer, 1964) ; Luv (producer, 1967) ; Duffy (producer, 1968)
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] Casey, Crime Photographer (producer, 1951-1952) ; Suspense (producer, 1952-1953) ; Studio One Summer Theatre (producer, 1953) ; The Best of Broadway (producer, 1954-1955) ; Climax! (producer, 1955-1956) ; Playhouse 90 (producer, 1956-1958) ; The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis (producer, 1959-1963) ; Adventures in Paradise (producer, 1959-1962) ; Five Fingers (producer, 1959-1960) ; Double Solitaire (producer, 1974; TV movie) ; James at 15 (executive producer, 1977-1978) ; The Day Christ Died (producer, 1980; TV movie) ; The Fighter (executive producer, 1983; TV movie) ; Chiefs (executive producer, 1983; miniseries) ; Space (producer, 1985; miniseries) ; Harem (executive producer, 1986; TV movie) ; Grass Roots (producer, 1992; TV movie)
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] Producer: Tami Chynn, Kwame Kandekore, Ty "Tyjae" Jackson, Neil Case and Tessanne Chin ; Executive Producer: Conroy Forte and Kwame Kandekore ; Mixing Producer: Esco
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] Dead At 30, pilot, producer, 1991. ; Paul Merton: The Series, producer, series 1 and 2, 1991-1993. ; Absolutely, producer, series 4, 1993. ; Introducing Tony Ferrino - Who? And Why? - A Quest, producer, 1993 ; The Tony Ferrino Phenomenon, producer, 1993. ; The Imaginatively Titled Punt & Dennis Show, Producer, 1994. ; Pauline Calf's Wedding Video - "Three Fights, Two Weddings & A Funeral", producer, 1994. ; The Marriage Of Figaro, executive producer, 1994 ; The Paul Calf Video Diary, producer, 1994. ; Coogan's Run, producer, 1995. ; The End Of The Year Show, producer, 1995. ; Cows, pilot, producer, 1997. ; dinnerladies, series 1 & 2, executive producer, 1998–2000. ; Stephen Fry's 'Live From The Lighthouse', producer, 1998. ; tlc, producer, 2001. ; Gash, producer, 2003. ; The Strategic Humour Initiative, producer, 2003. ; The Comic Side Of 7 Days, producer/director, series 1 & 2, 2004-5. ; Giles Wemmbley Hogg Goes Off… To Glastonbury, producer, 2007. ; Music Hall Meltdown, producer, 2007. ; Saturday Live Again!, producer, 2007. ; For One Night Only, executive producer, 2008. ; Milton Jones Live Universe Tour: Part 1 - Earth, DVD producer, 2009.
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] One of Those Nights (Juicy J song)  "One of Those Nights" is a song by American rapper Juicy J featuring Canadian singer the Weeknd. It was released on March 11, 2013, intended as the third official single from his third solo studio album "Stay Trippy" but it was subsequently removed from the final track list (appearing in the later released deluxe edition). The song was written by Juicy J, Belly, The Weeknd, and DannyBoyStyles, while being produced by the latter two.
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] One of Those Days  "One of Those Days" is a song by American recording artist Whitney Houston, from her fifth studio album "Just Whitney" (2002). Written by Kevin Briggs, Dwight Renolds, Patrice Stewart, Ernest Isley, Marvin Isley, Christopher Jasper, Kelly Isley, Ronald Isley, and Rudolph Isley, and produced by Briggs, the song was released as the second single from the album, following the lead single "Whatchulookinat", on October 29, 2002 through Arista Records. A mid-tempo R&B track, "One of Those Days" samples The Isley Brothers' song "Between the Sheets" (1983), and its lyrics speak about getting away from the stress of daily life.  The song received generally positive feedback from music critics, who commended Houston's vocals and the song's production and music; the Isley Brothers sampling received favorable comments from most critics. It peaked at number 72 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and number 29 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It peaked at number six in Hungary, and also made the singles charts at in Australia, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Switzerland. The single's accompanying music video, directed by Kevin Bray, portrays Houston and her girlfriends taking some time out and spending time at a spa and a club. Houston performed "One of Those Days" live on a concert organized at Lincoln Center Plaza, in December 2002. The concert was featured on an episode of "Good Morning America".
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] One of These Nights  One of These Nights is the fourth studio album by the Eagles, released in 1975. In July that year, the record became the Eagles' first number one album on "Billboard"s album chart, yielding three Top 10 singles: "One of These Nights", "Lyin' Eyes" and "Take It to the Limit". Its title song is the group's second number one single on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The album sold four million copies and was nominated for Grammy Album of the Year. A single from the album, "Lyin' Eyes", was also nominated for Record of the Year, and won the Eagles' first Grammy for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocals.  "One of These Nights" is the last Eagles album to feature guitarist Bernie Leadon, who left the band after the "One of These Nights" tour and was replaced by Joe Walsh. The seventh track, "Visions", is the only Eagles song on which lead guitarist Don Felder sang the lead vocals, despite his desire to write and sing more songs. The album was the band's commercial breakthrough, transforming them into international superstars. They went on a worldwide tour to promote the album.
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] One of These Nights (Eagles song)  "One of These Nights" is a song written by Don Henley and Glenn Frey and recorded by the American rock band Eagles. The title track from their "One of These Nights" album, the song became their second single to top the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart after "Best of My Love" and also helped propel the album to number one. The single version was shortened from the album version of the song, removing most of the song's intro and most of its fade-out, as well. Henley is lead vocalist on the verses, while Randy Meisner sings high harmony on the refrain. The song features a guitar solo by Don Felder that is "composed of blues-based licks and sustained string bends using an unusually meaty distortion tone."
Who was the producer of One of Those? [SEP] One of These Nights (Red Velvet song)  "One of These Nights" () is a song recorded by South Korean girl group Red Velvet. Composed by Hwang Chan-hee, Andreas Öberg, Maria Marcus and penned by Seo Ji-eum of Jam Factory, it was released as the lead single from their second extended play, "The Velvet", which is also the group's first major release to focus on the 'Velvet' half of their unique dual concept, as a follow-up to their last album, "The Red". "One of These Nights" is an R&B mid-tempo song with lyrics inspired by the story of Jingnyeo and Gyeonu, a folk tale conceived from the Korean festival Chilseok which originates from the Chinese Qixi Festival which falls on the seventh day of the seventh month on the lunisolar calendar. Originally intended to be released a day earlier, SM Entertainment delayed the song and album's release to March 17, 2016, to ensure its quality.  The single received generally favorable reviews from music critics who compared the song to the group's more upbeat releases, but praised the transition which was hailed as a bold move at a time when K-pop artists commonly aimed to release the catchiest dance hit. It was fairly successful in the group's native country South Korea, becoming their fourth top-ten hit on the Gaon Digital Chart and number six on "Billboard's" World Digital Songs chart.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP]  Greedy Lying Bastards was directed, produced and narrated by Craig Rosebraugh. He co-wrote the film with two-time Emmy Award winning editor Patrick Gambuti, Jr., who also served as editor. Daryl Hannah was an executive producer and Michael Brook, who wrote the score for An Inconvenient Truth, was the composer. In making the film Rosebraugh sought to "undertake a project that would uncover the hidden agenda of the oil industry and provide answers as to why we as a nation fail to implement clean energy policies and take effective action on important problems such as climate change." The film began production in 2009 and finished late in 2012.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP]  The Lie is a 2018 psychological horror film written and directed by Veena Sud. The film is a remake of the 2015 German film We Monsters, and stars Mireille Enos, Peter Sarsgaard and Joey King. Jason Blum serves as a producer under his Blumhouse Television banner. The Lie premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 13, 2018. It was later released on October 6, 2020, by Amazon Studios, as the first installment in the anthological Welcome to the Blumhouse film series.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP]  An Honest Liar is a 2014 biographical feature film documentary, directed and produced by Justin Weinstein and Tyler Measom, written by Weinstein, Greg O'Toole and Measom, produced through Left Turn Films, Pure Mutt Productions and Part2 Filmworks, and distributed by Abramorama. The film documents the life of former magician, escape artist, and skeptical educator James Randi, in particular the investigations through which Randi publicly exposed psychics, faith healers, and con-artists. The film also focuses on Randi's relationship with his partner of 25 years, José Alvarez, who at the time of filming, had been discovered to be living under a false identity, calling into question "whether Randi was the deceiver or the deceived." The film was screened at a number of 2014 film festivals, including the Tribeca Film Festival, Hot Docs, and AFI Docs Festival, where it won the Audience Award for Best Feature. It was released in February 2015.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP]  Samuel Baum was the original showrunner and head writer on Lie to Me. Brian Grazer, David Nevins, and Steven Maeda were executive producers. Katherine Pope, former president of NBC Universal's TV studio, signed on as a consulting producer, working on the final four episodes of the first season. Shawn Ryan, creator of The Shield and The Unit, took over as show runner for the second season. The show's theme song, Brand New Day, was performed by Ryan Star.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP]  The show was produced by, Dorothy Ghettuba, the producer of Lies that Bind.Both of the television series, were produced by Spielswork media.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP] The Lie (2018 film)  The Lie is a 2018 psychological horror film written and directed by Veena Sud. The film is a remake of the 2015 German film "We Monsters", and stars Mireille Enos, Peter Sarsgaard and Joey King. Jason Blum serves as a producer under his Blumhouse Television banner.  "The Lie" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 13, 2018. It was later released on October 6, 2020, by Amazon Studios, as the first installment in the anthological "Welcome to the Blumhouse" film series.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP] Big Little Lies (TV series)  Big Little Lies is an American drama television series based on the 2014 novel of the same name by Liane Moriarty. Created and written by David E. Kelley, it aired on HBO from February 19, 2017, to July 21, 2019, encompassing 14 episodes and two seasons. Originally billed as a miniseries, Jean-Marc Vallée directed the first season, while Andrea Arnold directed the second season.  "Big Little Lies" stars Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Laura Dern, and Zoë Kravitz as five women in Monterey, California, who become embroiled in a murder investigation. Alexander Skarsgård, Adam Scott, James Tupper and Jeffrey Nordling also feature in supporting roles. For the second season, Meryl Streep joined the main cast while Kathryn Newton and Iain Armitage were upgraded following their appearances in recurring capacities.  The series has received critical acclaim, particularly for its writing, directing, acting, cinematography and soundtrack. The first season received 16 Primetime Emmy Award nominations and won eight, including Outstanding Limited Series, a directing award for Vallée, and acting awards for Kidman, Skarsgård, and Dern. The trio also won Golden Globe Awards in addition to a Best Miniseries or Television Film win for the series. Kidman and Skarsgård also received Screen Actors Guild Awards for their performances.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP] Hips Don't Lie  "Hips Don't Lie" is a Latin pop and reggaeton song by Colombian singer-songwriter Shakira, featuring Haitian rapper Wyclef Jean, released by Epic Records in 2006 as the second single from the reissue of Shakira's seventh studio album, "Oral Fixation, Vol. 2". The song was written by Shakira, Jean, Jerry Duplessis, Omar Alfanno and LaTavia Parker, and produced by Shakira, Jean and Duplessis. "Hips Don't Lie" is a reworking of Jean's earlier single "Dance Like This" which heavily incorporates samples from "Amores Como el Nuestro" written by Omar Alfanno and performed by Jerry Rivera.  Upon its release, "Hips Don't Lie" received generally favorable reviews from music critics. It received several accolades, including a People's Choice Award, an MTV Latin America Video Music Award, and an MTV Video Music Award. "Hips Don't Lie" became a global success, reaching number one in 18 countries, including the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100, becoming Shakira's first and only number one hit to date in the United States. It also broke the record for the most radio plays in a single week and the fastest selling digital download song in the United States. The song was eventually certified quadruple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), where it has sold over 4 million digital copies and 2  million ringtones. It also topped the charts in Australia, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, among other countries. The song had amassed an estimated 13 million downloads by 2017, making it one of the best selling singles of all time.  In 2018, the song was selected as one of the greatest songs by 21st century women, by National Public Radio, ranked at 65.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP] Lie to Me  Lie to Me (stylized as Lie to me*) is an American crime drama television series. It originally ran on the Fox network from January 21, 2009, to January 31, 2011. In the show, Dr. Cal Lightman (Tim Roth) and his colleagues in The Lightman Group accept assignments from third parties (commonly local and federal law enforcement), and assist in investigations, reaching the truth through applied psychology: interpreting microexpressions, through the Facial Action Coding System, and body language. In May 2009, the show was renewed for a second season consisting of 13 episodes; season two premiered on September 28, 2009. On November 24, 2009, Fox ordered an extra nine episodes for season two, bringing the season order to 22 episodes.  On May 12, 2010, "Entertainment Weekly" reported that "Lie to Me" received a 13-episode third season pick-up. The third season of "Lie to Me" was originally set to premiere on November 10, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the date was moved up to October 4, 2010, because of the cancellation of "Lone Star". On May 11, 2011, Fox canceled "Lie to Me" after three seasons.  The show is inspired by the work of Paul Ekman, a specialist on facial expressions and a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California San Francisco School of Medicine. Ekman has been an advisor to police departments and anti-terrorism groups. He was a scientific consultant in the production of the series. The lead character of "Lie to Me", Cal Lightman, is based on Ekman.
Who was the producer of The Lie? [SEP] No Lie (Sean Paul song)  "No Lie" is a song by Jamaican rapper Sean Paul that features English-Albanian singer Dua Lipa, from the former's first album, "Mad Love the Prequel" (2018). The song was written by Paul, Andrew Jackson, Emily Warren, Sermstyle, and Pip Kembo. Production and co-production were handled by Sermstyle and Kembo, respectively. It was released through Island Records on 18 November 2016 as the lead single from the EP. The song was later included on "Dua Lipa: Complete Edition" (2018), the super deluxe reissue of Lipa's eponymous debut studio album.  "No Lie" is an R&B-tinged reggae and tropical pop song, with the lyrics seeing Paul express his attraction to a girl in a club scene. Several music critics praised Lipa's vocal performance and the party-like qualities shown throughout the song. It became a successful single in Europe, entering the top 10 of the charts in 7 countries across the continent, including the UK Singles Chart, becoming Paul's 12th and Lipa's first top 10 single in the United Kingdom. The song has since been certified gold or higher in eight different territories, including Italy, where it holds a quadruple platinum certification, and the UK, having received a platinum certification in the country.  "No Lie" was accompanied by a music video, released in January 2017 that was directed by Tim Nackashi. It features Paul and Lipa dancing in several different mirrored rooms and halls. The two promoted the song with numerous live performances, including performing it at BBC Radio 1's Big Weekend, as well as Capital FM's Jingle Bell Ball and Summertime Ball. Remixes of the song by Sam Feldt and Delirious & Alex K, respectively, have been released. This Mark Dua Lipa Debut Collaborations with Sean Paul.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP]  Early Man was released in the United Kingdom on 26 January 2018, by StudioCanal. StudioCanal also distributed the film in France, Germany, Australia and New Zealand. In the United States, it was released on 16 February 2018, by Lionsgate, through its Summit Entertainment label.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP]  In June 2007, two new films were announced by Aardman, one of them being appropriately joked as an "untitled Nick Park film, which is not another Wallace & Gromit feature film." In May 2015, it was announced that the title of the film would be Early Man, and it would be financed by the British Film Institute for $50 million. As with previous stop motion films created by Aardman, the characters in Early Man were developed over time with the voice actors to determine the way the characters look, move, and speak. The results were turned over to the film's 35 animators at the studio to work on individualizing the characters. A crowd of people took part in an audio recording at the Memorial Stadium Home of Bristol Rovers. The studio began Principal photography on the film in May 2016 and wrapped on 5 October 2017.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP]  On 21 September 2017, a competition was launched on the CBBC television programme Blue Peter to design a prehistoric character inspired by Early Man, with the winner receiving the opportunity to see their character brought to life by Aardman, as well as receiving tickets to the premiere alongside the runners up. It closed on 12 October 2017, and the winner was announced in January 2018.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP]  Early Man is a 2018 British stop motion animated sports comedy film directed by Nick Park, the creator of Wallace and Gromit, written by Mark Burton and James Higginson, and starring the voices of Eddie Redmayne, Tom Hiddleston, Maisie Williams, and Timothy Spall. The film follows a tribe of primitive Stone Age valley dwellers, who have to defend their land from bronze-using invaders in a football match. The film premiered on 20 January 2018 at the BFI Southbank cinema. Released theatrically on 26 January 2018, the film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the animation, voice acting, and humour, although it was deemed inferior to previous Aardman works. However, the film was also a box office bomb, only grossing $54 million against a budget of $50 million.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP]  Early Man was a massive failure, grossing only $8.2 million in North America and $46.3 million in other territories (including $15.8 million in the United Kingdom) for a worldwide gross of $54.6 million, against its budget of $50 million, it was deemed a box office bomb.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP] Early Man (film)  Early Man is a 2018 stop motion animated sports comedy film directed by Nick Park, the creator of "Wallace and Gromit", "Creature Comforts", "Chicken Run", and "Shaun the Sheep", written by Mark Burton and James Higginson, and starring the voices of Eddie Redmayne, Tom Hiddleston, Maisie Williams, and Timothy Spall. The film follows a tribe of primitive Stone Age valley dwellers, who have to defend their land from bronze-using invaders in a football match. The film premiered on 20 January 2018 at the BFI Southbank cinema.  Released theatrically on 26 January 2018, the film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised the animation, voice acting, humor, and faithfulness to the sport, although some deemed it inferior to previous Aardman works.<ref name=":0" /> However, the film was a box-office bomb, only grossing $54 million against a budget of $50 million, making it the lowest grossing Aardman film since "Flushed Away".
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP] Nick Park  Nicholas Wulstan Park  (born 6 December 1958) is a British animator who created "Wallace and Gromit", "Creature Comforts", "Chicken Run", "Shaun the Sheep", and "Early Man". Park has been nominated for an Academy Award a total of six times and won four with "Creature Comforts" (1989), "The Wrong Trousers" (1993), "A Close Shave" (1995) and "" (2005).  He has also received five BAFTA Awards, including the BAFTA for Best Short Animation for "A Matter of Loaf and Death", which was also the most watched television programme in the United Kingdom in 2008. His 2000 film "Chicken Run" is the highest-grossing stop motion animated film.  For his work in animation, in 2012, Park was among the British cultural icons selected by artist Peter Blake to appear in a new version of Blake's most famous artwork—the Beatles' "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band" album cover—to celebrate the British cultural figures of his life.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP] Human evolution  Human evolution is the evolutionary process within the history of primates that led to the emergence of "Homo sapiens" as a distinct species of the hominid family, which includes the great apes. This process involved the gradual development of traits such as human bipedalism and language, as well as interbreeding with other hominins, which indicate that human evolution was not linear but a web.  The study of human evolution involves several scientific disciplines, including physical anthropology, evolutionary anthropology, primatology, archaeology, paleontology, neurobiology, ethology, linguistics, evolutionary psychology, embryology, and genetics. Genetic studies show that primates diverged from other mammals about , in the Late Cretaceous period, and the earliest fossils appear in the Paleocene, around .  Within the superfamily Hominoidea, the family Hominidae (great apes) diverged from the family Hylobatidae (gibbons) some 15–20 million years ago; subfamily Homininae (African apes) diverged from Ponginae (orangutans) about 14 million years ago; the tribe Hominini (including humans, "Australopithecus", and chimpanzees) parted from the tribe Gorillini (gorillas) between 8–9 million years ago; and, in turn, the subtribes Hominina (humans and extinct biped ancestors) and Panina (chimpanzees) separated 4–7 million years ago. Anatomically modern humans appeared in Africa approximately 300,000 years ago.
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP] Closing In  Closing In is the debut studio album by American heavy metal band Early Man, released on October 11, 2005. There are clear influences from heavy metal bands like Black Sabbath and thrash metal bands like Metallica. Mike Conte's vocal style is very similar to Ozzy Osbourne and Rob Halford, while not exactly imitating them.  The album also features another heavy/speed metal attribute: aggressive, "don't fuck with me" lyrics, as heard on "War Eagle", "Thrill of the Kill", and "Evil Is".
Who was the producer of Early Man? [SEP] Jon Favreau  Jonathan Kolia Favreau (; born October 19, 1966) is an American actor and filmmaker. As an actor, Favreau has appeared in films such as "Rudy" (1993), "PCU" (1994), "Swingers" (1996), "Very Bad Things" (1998), "Deep Impact" (1998), "The Replacements" (2000), "Daredevil" (2003), and "The Break-Up" (2006). He has also appeared in films such as "Four Christmases" (2008), "Couples Retreat" (2009), "I Love You, Man" (2009), "People Like Us" (2012), "The Wolf of Wall Street" (2013), "Chef" (2014), and several films created by Marvel Studios.  As a filmmaker, Favreau has been significantly involved with the Marvel Cinematic Universe. He directed, produced, and appeared as Happy Hogan in the films "Iron Man" (2008) and "Iron Man 2" (2010). He also served as an executive producer for or appeared as the character in the films "The Avengers" (2012), "Iron Man 3" (2013), "" (2015), "" (2017), "" (2018), "" (2019), "" (2019), and "" (2021).  He has also directed the films "Elf" (2003), "" (2005), "Cowboys & Aliens" (2011), "Chef" (2014), "The Jungle Book" (2016), and "The Lion King" (2019). Favreau is the creator of the "Star Wars" Disney+ original series "The Mandalorian" (2019–present) as well as one of its executive producers and directors. He also serves as a writer and executive producer for its spin-off series "The Book of Boba Fett". He produces films under his production company banner, Fairview Entertainment, and also presents the television cooking series "The Chef Show".
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP]  The Garden of Weeds is a 1924 American silent drama film directed by James Cruze and starring Betty Compson. It is based on the Broadway play Garden of Weeds by Leon Gordon and Doris Marquette. Famous Players-Lasky produced and Paramount Pictures distributed.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP]  head writer Jenji Kohan, whose credits include Tracey Takes On..., Mad About You, and Sex and the City, is the executive producer of the series, alongside Roberto Benabib, of Little City fame. Kohan also explains how she and Benabib "tag team[ed]" in running the writers room. The writer Matthew Salsberg and director Craig Zisk also joined as executive producers in later seasons. Following Zisk's departure from the series after five seasons, Mark Burley, director Scott Ellis, and Lisa Vinnecour were added as executive producers. By season 8, writers Victoria Morrow and Stephen Falk became the other executive producers. Exterior scenes for the first two seasons were shot almost exclusively in Stevenson Ranch, a suburban area of Santa Clarita Valley, California. The large fountain and Agrestic sign in the opening credits of the
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP]  Kohan was the creator of the Showtime dark comedy-drama television series Weeds, which she executive produced as showrunner and head writer at her writing studio, Tilted Productions, in Los Angeles, California throughout its entire eight season airing.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP]  Weeds is an American dark comedy-drama   television series created by Jenji Kohan that aired on Showtime from August 8, 2005, to September 16, 2012. Nancy Botwin (Mary-Louise Parker), a widowed mother of two boys&mdash;Silas (Hunter Parrish) and Shane (Alexander Gould)&mdash;begins selling marijuana to support her family. Other main characters include Nancy's lax brother-in-law Andy Botwin (Justin Kirk), who moves in to help raise her children; naive acquaintance Doug Wilson (Kevin Nealon); narcissistic neighbor Celia Hodes (Elizabeth Perkins), who lives with her husband Dean (Andy Milder) and their daughter Isabelle (Allie Grant); as well as Nancy's wholesalers Heylia James (Tonye Patano) and Conrad Shepard (Romany Malco). Over the course of the series, the Botwin family become increasingly entangled in
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP]  On August 7, 2007, Simon Spotlight, a division of Simon and Schuster, published In the Weeds: The Official Guide to the Showtime Series by Kera Bolonik, which features interviews with the series creator/showrunner, its other writer-producers, and the entire cast. It also features detailed character and plot descriptions, recipes, trivia and behind-the-scenes information.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP] The Garden of Weeds  The Garden of Weeds is a 1924 American silent drama film directed by James Cruze and starring Betty Compson. It is based on the Broadway play "Garden of Weeds" by Leon Gordon and Doris Marquette. Famous Players-Lasky produced and Paramount Pictures distributed.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP] Weed  A weed is a plant considered undesirable in a particular situation, "a plant in the wrong place", or a plant growing where it is not wanted. This introduces the concept of humans and their goals in a particular setting. The concept of weeds is particularly significant in agriculture, where the aim is growing crops or pastures of a single species, or a mixture of a few desired species. In such environments, other plant species are considered undesirable and therefore a weed. Besides, some weeds have undesirable characteristics making them a plant pest in most human settings.  Examples of weeds are plants unwanted in human-controlled settings, such as farm land, orchards, gardens, lawns, parks, residential and industrial areas. Taxonomically though, the term "weed" has no botanical significance, because a plant that is a weed in one context, is not a weed when growing in a situation where it is wanted. In the same way, volunteer plants are regarded as weeds in a subsequent crop. Some plants that are widely regarded as weeds are intentionally grown in gardens and other cultivated settings, in which case they are sometimes called beneficial weeds. The term "weed" is also applied to any plant that grows or reproduces aggressively, or is invasive outside its native habitat.  More broadly, the term "weed" is occasionally applied pejoratively to species outside the plant kingdom, species that can survive in diverse environments and reproduce quickly; in this sense it has even been applied to humans.   Weed control is important in agriculture. Methods include hand cultivation with hoes, powered cultivation with cultivators, smothering with mulch or soil solarization, lethal wilting with high heat, burning, or chemical attack with herbicides and cultural methods such as crop rotation and fallowing land to reduce the weed population.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP] Weed Garden  Weed Garden is an EP by American musician Iron & Wine. It was released on August 30, 2018 through Sub Pop.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP] Noxious weed  A noxious weed, harmful weed or injurious weed is a weed that has been designated by an agricultural or other governing authority as a plant that is injurious to agricultural or horticultural crops, natural habitats or ecosystems, or humans or livestock. Most noxious weeds have been introduced into an ecosystem by ignorance, mismanagement, or accident. Some noxious weeds are native. Typically they are plants that grow aggressively, multiply quickly without natural controls (native herbivores, soil chemistry, etc.), and display adverse effects through contact or ingestion. Noxious weeds are a large problem in many parts of the world, greatly affecting areas of agriculture, forest management, nature reserves, parks and other open space.  Many noxious weeds have come to new regions and countries through contaminated shipments of feed and crop seeds or were intentionally introduced as ornamental plants for horticultural use.  Some "noxious weeds", such as ragwort, produce copious amounts of nectar, valuable for the survival of bees and other pollinators, or other advantages like larval host foods and habitats. In the USA, wild parsnip "Pastinaca sativa", for instance, provides large tubular stems that some bee species hibernate in, larval food for two different swallowtail butterflies, and other beneficial qualities.
Who was the producer of The Garden of Weeds? [SEP] Parable of the Tares  The Parable of the Tares or Weeds (KJV: "tares", WNT: "darnel", DRB: "cockle") is a parable of Jesus which appears in . The parable relates how servants eager to pull up weeds were warned that in so doing they would root out the wheat as well and were told to let both grow together until the harvest. Later in Matthew, the weeds are identified with "the children of the evil one", the wheat with "the children of the Kingdom", and the harvest with "the end of the age". A shorter, compressed version of the parable is found without any interpretation in the apocryphal Gospel of Thomas.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]  Maling Kutang was directed by Rako Prijanto, best known for his comedies, and produced by Ody Mulya Hidayat of Maxima Pictures. The script was written by Raditya Dika, who had recently become popular after the success of his blog-turned-novel Kambing Jantan. A review of the film in The Jakarta Globe suggested that Dika had an "incongruous style of observational humour", which remained evident in Maling Kutang. Cinematography, which took less than a week, was handled by Rendra Yusworo, while editing was completed by Azis Natandra. Music was provided by Joseph S Djafar, with Yusuf A Patawari and Khikmawan Santosa on sound. The film starred Arie K. Untung, Indra Birowo, Deswita Maharani, and Kinaryosih, with minor roles played by actors including Fanny Fadillah and Nani Widjaja. In an interview, Kinaryosih – who had several years' experience working in comedies – stated that she had been told the title was Kutang Kutangkap (I Catch a Bra) during casting. The film's title is a play on Malin Kundang, a Minang folktale.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]  Maling Kutang (literally The Bra Thief) is a 2009 Indonesian comedy film directed by Rako Prijanto. Starring Arie K. Untung, Indra Birowo, Deswita Maharani, and Kinaryosih, it follows two neighbours who steal a bra they think is magical. It was released to mixed critical reception.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]  Maling Kutang was released on 1 October 2009, with a press screening at Jakarta Theater the day before. This was several weeks before Dika's Menculik Miyabi (Kidnapping Miyabi), starring AV idol Maria Ozawa, was scheduled to begin production. The film received a mixed reception. A review in The Jakarta Globe suggested that Maling Kutang was a "like a mere preview" for Menculik Miyabi. The reviewer praised several aspects of the film, including Untung's "Jim Carrey-esque" performance, and summarised that Maling Kutang was sufficient for "a few light laughs", but audiences might find it better to wait for Menculik Miyabi. A review on the entertainment website KapanLagi.com found the film better than its title suggested, with a clear plot and good performances by Birowo and Maharani, but considered the reliance on sexual innuendo to be poor form. Kartoyo DS, writing for Suara Karya, considered the comedy forced; he wrote that the film, unlike the Warkop comedies of the 1980s, did not produce any laughs.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]  as producer and director ; Tengkorak Hidoep (Living Skull; 1941) – as producer ; Srigala Item (Black Wolf; 1941) – as producer ; Si Gomar (1941) – as producer ; Singa Laoet (Lion of the Sea; 1941) – as producer ; Ratna Moetoe Manikam (1941) – as producer ; Elang Darat (Land Hawk; 1941) – as producer ; Poetri Rimba (Daughter of the Jungle; 1941) – as producer ; Noesa Penida (1941) – as producer ; Matula (1941) – as producer ; Djantoeng Hati (Heart and Soul; 1941) – as cinematographer ; Genangan Air Mata (Puddle of Tears; 1954) – as director ; Konde Tjioda (1954) – as producer ; Dinamika (Dynamics; 1955) – as producer During his career The released at least 34 films, as follows:
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]  (Warriors for Freedom; 1960) – as production manager ; Mak Tjomblang (Mrs. Tjomblang; 1960) – as director and screenwriter ; Lahirnja Gatotkatja (Birth of Gatotkatja; 1960) – as director and screenwriter ; Masa Topan dan Badai (Time of Cyclones and Storms; 1963) – as director ; Rimba Bergema (Echoing Jungles; 1964) – as director ; Bimo Kroda (1967) – as director ; Malin Kundang (Anak Durhaka) (Malin Kundang [Faithless Child]; 1971) – as director ; Api Dibukit Menoreh (Gugurnya Tohpati) (Fire on Mount Menoreh [Death of Tohpati]; 1971) – as director ; Bang Kojak (Brother Kojak; 1977) – as producer
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP] Maling Kutang  Maling Kutang (literally "The Bra Thief") is a 2009 Indonesian comedy film directed by Rako Prijanto. Starring Arie K. Untung, Indra Birowo, Deswita Maharani, and Kinaryosih, it follows two neighbours who steal a bra they think is magical. It was released to mixed critical reception.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP] Kinaryosih  Kinaryosih (born 3 March 1979) is an Indonesian actress and model.
Who was the producer of Maling Kutang? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] "Party All the Time"
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP]  In fall 2005, Hsueh and Hahn completed their first film, Party, a feature-length documentary about New York's Asian nightlife. They shot, directed, edited, scored, produced and financed it themselves. The film features intersecting stories of several party promoters and partygoers, as well as a voiceover narration provided by Prof. Gary Okihiro of Columbia University. Party appeared at the 2007 Rotterdam Asiascope Overseas Asian Film Festival and was chosen for distribution by Pathfinder Pictures in 2006.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP]  In 1990, Hall decided to develop a companion program to his own as what he termed to be his show's "afterparty". This idea became The Party Machine, a 30-minute late night music show in the same vein as shows like Club MTV or Soul Train. Hall co-produced the series with its host, singer/actress Nia Peeples, and it debuted on January 7, 1991, in syndication (usually following its parent series). Although initial ratings were high, especially in its larger markets, The Party Machine began sliding in the ratings quickly and the program was cancelled five months after its debut. Its final episode aired on September 15, 1991.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP]  Party is a 1994 short film starring Gary Coleman, Floyd Harden, DeAnna Hawkins, Ron Litman and Greg Nassief. The film was directed by Eric Swelstad and produced by Johnnie J. Young of J&E Studio Productions, from a script by Jay Woelfel based on a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. The film was shot in 1994 on location in Lucerne Valley in the Mojave Desert in California.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP]  The Party is the eponymous debut album by the band of the same name. It was the first full-length release on Hollywood Records, which was released August 1990. The Party worked with the industry's top writers and producers at the time, such as Stephen Bray, Jellybean Benitez, Andre Cymone, and Deborah Gibson. The album produced two U.S. charting singles: "That's Why" reached #55 on the Billboard Hot 100 and #52 on Cash Box.  And its follow-up, "Summer Vacation," reached #86 after having peaked a year earlier at #72 in the summer of 1990 as an advance single.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] Rob Thomas (writer)  Robert James "Rob" Thomas (born August 15, 1965) is an American author, producer, director and screenwriter. He created the television series "Veronica Mars" (2004–2007, 2019), co-developed "90210" (2008–2013), and co-created "Party Down" (2009–2010, 2022-), and "iZombie" (2015–2019).
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] Party Down  Party Down is an American sitcom created and primarily written by John Enbom, Rob Thomas, Dan Etheridge and Paul Rudd that aired on the Starz network in the United States in 2009 and 2010. The series follows a group of caterers in Los Angeles as they hope to make it in Hollywood.  Starz canceled "Party Down" on June 30, 2010. While the show was warmly received by critics, its Nielsen ratings were very low. Losing Jane Lynch to "Glee" as well as Adam Scott to "Parks and Recreation" were believed to be additional factors in the decision to end the series. In November 2021, a six-episode revival of the series was ordered by the network. The third season is scheduled to premiere on February 24, 2023.<ref name="RevivalPremiere"/>
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] Party Monster (song)  "Party Monster" is a song by Canadian singer the Weeknd, from his third studio album "Starboy" (2016). The song was released for digital download on November 18, 2016, alongside "I Feel It Coming" featuring French electronic duo Daft Punk, as promotional singles. It was later sent to US urban contemporary radio on December 6, 2016, as the album's third single. The song was written and produced by the Weeknd, Ben Billions, and Doc McKinney, with additional writing credits going to Belly and Lana Del Rey, the latter of which providing background vocals.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] Party Girl (StaySolidRocky song)  "Party Girl" is a song by American rapper StaySolidRocky, originally self-released on September 12, 2019, and then re-released by Columbia Records on April 21, 2020, as his third career-single. The song went viral on video-sharing app TikTok and became StaySolidRocky's first charting single. It was written by the rapper and its producer Nashi. The track was later included on his debut EP ""Fallin'", released July 17, 2020. A remix with rapper Lil Uzi Vert was released on July 10, 2020.
Who was the producer of Party? [SEP] Party All the Time  "Party All the Time" is a song by comedian and actor Eddie Murphy, written and produced by Rick James. It was the lead single from Murphy's 1985 debut album "How Could It Be". It reached number two on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for three weeks, behind "Say You, Say Me" by Lionel Richie.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP]  that was different from those carried by its competitors at the time, recruiting Peter Hastings (who had left Warner Bros. Animation in a dispute over the creative direction of Animaniacs and Pinky and the Brain, which he had both written for) to help overhaul ABC's Saturday morning lineup. The concept that was developed revolved around the idea that Saturday is different from every other day of the week; Hastings also came up with the idea of utilizing virtual set technology for the hosted interstitial segments. The concept debuted as Disney's One Saturday Morning on September 13, 1997, formatted as a
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP]  The series was produced by host Jonathan Ross's own production company, Channel X, headed by Kenton Allen. Unlike previous shows, Ross specifically designed it to be "a show that I want to watch" without being particularly interested in viewing figures or popularity. The show was broadcast live, with no possibility for re-takes or editing. Writers for the series included Kevin Day and Patrick Marber. The music director and keyboard player was Janette Mason, who also wrote the show's theme tune.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP]  Schlosser played a key role in the creation of Saturday Night Live, authoring a February 1975 memo that proposed a new variety show to replace weekend re-runs of Johnny Carson's The Tonight Show. Schlosser's memo suggested that the show be called "Saturday Night", that it should air at 11:30, and that "if possible the show should be done live" and should seek to "get different hosts". "It would be a variety show", he wrote, "but it would have certain characteristics. It should be young and bright. It should have a distinctive look, a distinctive set and a distinctive sound … We should attempt to use the show to develop new television personalities." He said the show should be filmed in Studio 8H at 30 Rockefeller Plaza. Schlosser worked with NBC's then head of late-night entertainment, Dick Ebersol, who recruited Lorne Michaels to create Saturday Night Live, which premiered on October 11, 1975.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP]  Saturday Morning is a 2007 American comedy film written and directed by Rob Greenberg and starring Joey Piscopo, George Wendt, Valerie R. Feingold, Louis Mandylor, Ashley Carin, Victor Raider-Wexler, Beth Ostrosky, and Lillo Brancato, Jr.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP]  Show creator Lorne Michaels resigned as producer of Saturday Night Live at the end of its fifth season and the entire cast and writing staff followed, with the exception of writer Brian Doyle-Murray. Doumanian, who had been an associate producer during the first five seasons of the show and produced a special for Michaels in 1978, was one of the few who remained. She was offered Michaels' job running SNL, much to Michaels' surprise, and took over the show for the 1980 season, hiring a completely new cast and new writers. Doumanian's tenure as SNL executive producer was tumultuous. She hired Denny Dillon, Gilbert Gottfried, Gail Matthius, Joe Piscopo, Ann Risley and Charles Rocket as repertory players, and Yvonne Hudson, Matthew Laurance and
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP] Morning Joe  Morning Joe is an American morning news and liberal talk show, airing weekdays from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the cable news channel MSNBC. It features former Republican Congressman Joe Scarborough reporting and discussing the news of the day in a panel format with co-hosts Mika Brzezinski (whom Scarborough married in November 2018) and Willie Geist, among others.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP] Saturday Kitchen  Saturday Kitchen Live is a British cookery programme, that is broadcast live on BBC One every Saturday between 10.00am and 11.30am produced by Cactus TV.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP] CBS Saturday Morning  CBS Saturday Morning is a Saturday morning television program that broadcasts on the American television network, CBS. It is currently anchored by Michelle Miller, Dana Jacobson and Jeff Glor.  Although the program's name has changed several times throughout its existence to align with changes to its weekday counterpart, its format has evolved separately from, and more gradually compared to CBS' weekday morning programs.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP] Schoolhouse Rock!  Schoolhouse Rock! is an American interstitial programming series of animated musical educational short films (and later, videos) that aired during the Saturday morning children's programming block on the U.S. television network ABC. The themes covered included grammar, science, economics, history, mathematics, and civics. The series' original run lasted from 1973 to 1984; it was later revived from 1993 to 1996. Additional episodes were produced in 2009 for direct-to-video release.
Who was the producer of Saturday Morning? [SEP] Andi Peters  Andi Eleazu Peters (born 29 July 1970) is a British television presenter, producer, journalist and voice actor, currently employed by ITV and known for presenting Children's BBC, roles on breakfast TV shows "Live & Kicking", "GMTV", "Good Morning Britain" and "Lorraine", and for hosting "Dancing on Ice: Extra" and "The Big Reunion". He competed in the first series of the ITV skating competition "Dancing on Ice". He appeared in the third series of "Celebrity MasterChef" finishing as runner-up behind Atomic Kitten singer Liz McClarnon.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Mother of the Bride is a 1993 American made-for-television drama film that stars Kristy McNichol, who also served as producer of the movie and was directed by Charles Correll Jr. It premiered on CBS on February 27, 1993 and was released on DVD in 2006. It was preceded by Children of the Bride (1990) and Baby of the Bride (1991).
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Mother and Child is a 2009 drama directed and written by Rodrigo García. It premiered on September 14, 2009, at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival and at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2010, and was the closing night selection within Maryland Film Festival 2010. It was given a limited release in the United States beginning May 7, 2010.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]  The film was originally going to be produced by Cha Cha Cha Films, Focus Films and Universal Studios; Julie Lynn through Mockingbird Films took over in late 2008 with a production budget of $7 million. Principal photography began in January, 2009.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Little Mother (also known as Woman of the Year) is a 1973 drama, romance, cult film directed by Radley Metzger and starring Christiane Krüger, Siegfried Rauch and Ivan Desny. The story was loosely modelled on that of Evita Peron in Argentina. It was a co-production between the United States, West Germany and Yugoslavia.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]  co-wrote the book for the 1974 musical Lorelei. It is her sole Broadway credit. Parent's greatest success has been in television, most notably with The Golden Girls and Tracey Ullman's sketch comedy series Tracey Takes On..., serving as a producer and writer for both. She also wrote episodes of The Smothers Brothers Show, The Carol Burnett Show, Rhoda, Steven Spielberg's Amazing Stories, Babes (of which she also served as series creator) and Finder of Lost Loves, and the musical variety special Sills and Burnett at the Met (1976). With Ann Marcus, she co-created the 1976-77 soap opera satire Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman. With Kenny Solms, she created the 1970 situation comedy The Tim Conway Show. Parent is the winner of a CableACE Award and two Emmys, and has been nominated for an additional twelve Emmys and two Writers Guild of America Awards.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother and Child Reunion  "Mother and Child Reunion" is a song by the American singer-songwriter Paul Simon. It was the lead single from his second studio album, "Paul Simon" (1972), released on Columbia Records.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP] The Mother (2023 film)  The Mother is an upcoming American action drama film directed by Niki Caro with a screenplay by Misha Green, Andrea Berloff and Peter Craig, from a story by Green. The film stars Jennifer Lopez, Joseph Fiennes, Omari Hardwick, and Gael García Bernal.  "The Mother" is scheduled to be released in May 2023, by Netflix.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother Mother  Mother Mother is a Canadian indie rock band based in Quadra Island, British Columbia. The band consists of Ryan Guldemond on guitar and vocals, Molly Guldemond and Jasmin Parkin on vocals and keyboard, Ali Siadat on drums, and Mike Young on bass. Longtime bassist Jeremy Page left the band in 2016.  In 2005, they independently released their self-titled debut album under the band name Mother. They later changed their name to Mother Mother, and re-released the album on Last Gang Records in 2007. Retitled "Touch Up", the reissue also featured several new songs.  The band's second album, "O My Heart", was released on September 16, 2008; their third album, "Eureka", was released on March 15, 2011; their fourth album, "The Sticks", was released on September 18, 2012; and their fifth album, "Very Good Bad Thing" was released on November 4, 2014, with an American release of April 7, 2015, on Def Jam Recordings. Their sixth album, "No Culture", was released on February 10, 2017, with yet another Def Jam Recordings release in the United States.They also recently made a single for Christmas 2022  Their seventh album, "Dance and Cry," was released November 2, 2018. In late 2020, the band's music went viral on TikTok, causing a surge in streams. Their eighth studio album, "Inside", was released on June 25, 2021 on Warner Brothers Music. On January 28, 2022, the band released a deluxe version of "Inside", containing 7 new songs.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother and Child (2009 film)  Mother and Child is a 2009 drama directed and written by Rodrigo García. It premiered on September 14, 2009, at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival and at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2010, and was the closing night selection within Maryland Film Festival 2010. It was given a limited release in the United States beginning May 7, 2010.
Who was the producer of Mother and Child? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP]  Revelations Entertainment is an independent movie production company founded by actor Morgan Freeman and business partner Lori McCreary in 1996. Its mission statement, to "reveal truth," drives to company produce thought-provoking entertainment with artistic integrity and "soul." In 2006, Revelations became the first film production company in history to distribute a film (10 Items or Less) online while the movie was still playing in theaters. This was achieved by using ClickStar (also founded by Freeman and McCreary as a joint venture with Intel Corporation) as their online distribution site.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP]  Revelations is an American apocalyptic drama television miniseries created by David Seltzer and based on the Book of Revelation. The series follows two central characters, an astrophysicist (Bill Pullman) and a nun (Natascha McElhone), in a race against time to see if the end of the world can be averted. It also stars Michael Massee, Mark Rendall, Chelsey Coyle, Brittney Coyle, John Rhys-Davies, Orla Brady, Alexa Nikolas, Tobin Bell, Martin Starr, Fred Durst, and Caryn Green.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP]  Lori McCreary (born in Antioch, California) is an American motion picture producer and computer scientist. She is CEO of the production company Revelations Entertainment, which she co-founded with actor Morgan Freeman.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP]  McCreary graduated from UCLA with a degree in Computer Science. While still in college, she co-founded software company CompuLaw, now a part of Aderant. McCreary's appreciation for the stage play Bopha! inspired her to go into motion picture production. Actor Morgan Freeman was signed to direct the film. Later, the pair partnered in the formation of Revelations Entertainment in 1996 with a mission to produce entertainment that reveals truth. As Revelations CEO, McCreary produced The Magic of Belle Isle, directed by Rob Reiner. Before that, she produced Invictus, directed by Clint Eastwood, with Freeman starring in the long-awaited portrayal of Nelson Mandela and co-starring Matt Damon. She is currently Executive Producer of CBS's hit series Madam Secretary starring Téa Leoni. She is also Executive producer of The Story
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP]  The story was adapted into an episode of 1995 television series The Outer Limits. Brad Wright wrote the teleplay, and Steven Weber directed. In July 2020, Deadline Hollywood announced that The CW is adapting the story into a one-hour drama series titled Revelations.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP] Masters of the Universe: Revelation  Masters of the Universe: Revelation is an American adult animated superhero fantasy television series produced by Kevin Smith and Powerhouse Animation Studios. A spiritual sequel to the 1983–1985 series "He-Man and the Masters of the Universe" by Filmation, while ignoring the events of "The New Adventures of He-Man" (1990), the plot of "Revelation" explores unresolved storylines from the original 1980s series. Netflix released the series in two parts, with five episodes debuting July 23, 2021, then five additional episodes on November 23, 2021. In June 2022, Netflix announced a follow-up "Masters of the Universe: Revolution".
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP] Black Holes and Revelations  Black Holes and Revelations is the fourth studio album by English rock band Muse, first released on 3 July 2006 through Warner Bros. Records and Muse's Helium-3 imprint. It was recorded over four months with producer Rich Costey in New York City, London, Milan, and southern France. It saw a change in style for Muse, with influences including Depeche Mode, Millionaire, Lightning Bolt, Sly and the Family Stone, and music from southern Italy. Like their previous albums, it features political and dystopian undertones, with lyrics covering topics such as political corruption, alien invasion, revolution and New World Order conspiracies, as well as more conventional love songs.  "Black Holes and Revelations" received positive reviews and appeared on many year-end lists. It received a Mercury Prize nomination and later appeared in the 2007 version of "1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die". The album entered the charts at number one in five countries, including the United Kingdom, and in the top 10 in several other countries. It was later certified triple platinum in the UK and platinum in the US. Singles "Supermassive Black Hole" and "Knights of Cydonia" were both UK top-10 hits, while "Starlight", "Map of the Problematique", and "Invincible" all charted within the top 25. , "Black Holes and Revelations" has sold more than 4.5 million copies worldwide.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP] Revelations (Killing Joke album)  Revelations is the third studio album by English post-punk band Killing Joke, released in July 1982 by E.G. via Polydor Records. It was recorded in Cologne, Germany and produced by Conny Plank, making it their first album not to be self-produced. This is their last album to featured the original line-up, until their 2010's album "Absolute Dissent".
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP] Resident Evil: Revelations  Resident Evil: Revelations is a 2012 survival horror video game developed by TOSE and published by Capcom originally for the Nintendo 3DS handheld game console. Set shortly after the events of "Resident Evil 4", the game follows counter-terrorism agents Jill Valentine and Chris Redfield as they try to uncover the truth behind a bioterrorist organization that plans to infect the Earth's oceans with a virus. The game features a single-player mode where the player must complete a series of episodes that involve solving puzzles and defeating enemies, and a multiplayer mode where players may fight their way through altered single-player scenarios.  "Revelations" emphasizes survival, evasion, and exploration over fast-paced combat by providing the player with limited ammunition, health, and movement speed. It was designed to bring back the content and horror of the "Resident Evil" roots, while at the same time trying to modernize the gameplay. "Revelations" was also the first game to support the Nintendo 3DS Circle Pad Pro outside Japan. The game was a moderate commercial success and received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its spooky setting, sound direction, and presentation. Criticism was targeted at its inconsistent gameplay between episodes. The game received three nominations at the Golden Joystick Awards, including Ultimate Game of the Year, and was nominated for Handheld Game of the Year at the D.I.C.E. Awards.  A high-definition (HD) version was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, Wii U, and Xbox 360 in 2013, and for PlayStation 4, Xbox One, and Nintendo Switch in 2017. This version does not support the 3D capabilities of the Nintendo 3DS but features enhanced graphics and additional content, including a new difficulty setting. Across all platforms, the HD version sold more than two million copies worldwide, but was criticized for its dated graphics and uneven controls. A sequel, "", was released in 2015.
Who was the producer of Revelations? [SEP] Revelations (Audioslave album)  Revelations is the third, and final, studio album by American rock supergroup Audioslave, released on September 4, 2006, internationally, and a day later in the United States, through Epic Records and Interscope Records. Chris Cornell quit the band in February 2007, and the remaining members disbanded Audioslave, rather than looking for a new vocalist, as they were busy with a reunion of Rage Against the Machine.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP]  Arlene Francis hosted the program as editor-in-chief with Hugh Downs serving as her announcer and assistant. Music was performed by the Norman Paris Trio and singer Johnny Johnston. The team of editors presenting segments on particular topics included Poppy Cannon (food), Rose Franzblau (family relations and child psychology), Eve Hunter (fashion and beauty), Sydney Smith (interior decorating), Estelle Parsons (special projects), Leona Baumgartner (health), and Will Peigelbeck (gardening and home repairs).
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP]  Home is executive produced by Joe Poulin, Matthew Weaver, Bruce Gersh, Ian Orefice, Doug Pray, Collin Orcutt, Matt Tyrnauer, Corey Reeser and Kim Rozenfeld. Nick Stern serves as co-executive producer. Matt Tyrnauer is set to direct the series.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP]  Home was an American daytime television program hosted by Arlene Francis. Intended for an audience of women, it debuted in 1954 as one of NBC's three major non-primetime shows. While the other two shows—Today and Tonight—are still being produced 60 years later, Home was cancelled in 1957.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP]  Home, also referred to as The Home Show, is a daytime informational talk show which aired on ABC from 1988 to 1994. The program was co-hosted by Robb Weller and Sandy Hill during the first season. Gary Collins hosted the show for the remainder of its run. Co-hosts included Cristina Ferrare, Dana Fleming, Beth Ruyak and Sarah Purcell. Decorating and craft segments were frequently presented by Hanala Sagal aka Suzan Stadner, Fitness Expert and Sally Marshall, Dian Thomas, Carol Duvall and Kitty Bartholomew. Marc Summers and Wil Shriner presented segments on the latest in technology (computers, home gaming, etc.). The show's various directors were Arthur Forrest (who directed the pilot), Booey Kober, Bob Loudin, Jerry Kupcinet, Paul Forrest and Bob Levy. Mother Love joined the show as the announcer in the final season, replacing Bob Hilton.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP]  It was written by Graeme Farmer and directed by Richard Sarell, Walter Boston, Noel Price and Douglas Sharp. Home screened in the UK in 1985 and a number of European countries.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP] Home Alone  Home Alone is a 1990 American Christmas comedy film directed by Chris Columbus and written and produced by John Hughes. The first film in the "Home Alone" franchise, the film stars Macaulay Culkin, Joe Pesci, Daniel Stern, John Heard, and Catherine O'Hara. Culkin plays Kevin McCallister, a boy who defends his suburban Chicago home from burglars after his family accidentally leaves him behind on their Christmas vacation to Paris.  Hughes conceived "Home Alone" while on vacation, with Warner Bros. being originally intended to finance and distribute the film. However, Warner Bros. shut down production after it exceeded its assigned budget. 20th Century Fox assumed responsibilities following secret meetings with Hughes. Columbus and Culkin were hired soon afterwards. Filming took place between February and May 1990 on location across Illinois.  "Home Alone" premiered in Chicago on November 10, 1990, and was theatrically released in the United States on November 16, and it received positive reviews, with praise for its cast, humor, and music. "Home Alone" grossed $476.7 million worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing live-action comedy until the release of "The Hangover Part II" (2011), and made Culkin a child star. Moreover, it was the second-highest-grossing film of 1990, behind "Ghost". It was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, and Best Actor in a Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy for Culkin, and for the Academy Award for Best Original Score for John Williams, and Best Original Song for "Somewhere in My Memory". "Home Alone" has since been considered one of the best Christmas films. A sequel, "", was released in 1992.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP] Home (2015 film)  Home is a 2015 American computer-animated science fiction comedy film produced by DreamWorks Animation and distributed by 20th Century Fox. Loosely based on Adam Rex's 2007 children's book "The True Meaning of Smekday", the film was directed by Tim Johnson from a screenplay by Tom J. Astle and Matt Ember, and stars the voices of Jim Parsons, Rihanna, Steve Martin, Jennifer Lopez, and Matt Jones. The story follows the shared adventures of a friendly alien who is shunned by the rest of his kind, and a teenage girl searching for her mother after they are separated during an invasion of Earth.  The film premiered at the Boulder International Film Festival on March 7, 2015, and was released in theaters on March 27, 2015.<ref name=Slate2016 /> "Home" was promoted with the release of a four-minute short film titled "Almost Home", which was shown in theaters before DreamWorks Animation's "Mr. Peabody & Sherman" and Blue Sky Studios' "Rio 2" in 2014. Rihanna created a concept album of the same name. The soundtrack also includes guest vocals from Jennifer Lopez, among others, and was supported by two singles, "Towards the Sun" and "Feel the Light". "Home" received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $386 million worldwide.  A traditionally animated was released on July 29, 2016, with the elements of its plot taking place after the events of the film. Of the original cast, only Matt Jones reprised his role for the series.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP] House (TV series)  House (also called House, M.D.) is an American medical drama television series that originally ran on the Fox network for eight seasons, from November 16, 2004, to May 21, 2012. The series' main character is Dr. Gregory House (Hugh Laurie), an unconventional, misanthropic medical genius who, despite his dependence on pain medication, leads a team of diagnosticians at the fictional Princeton–Plainsboro Teaching Hospital (PPTH) in New Jersey. The series' premise originated with Paul Attanasio, while David Shore, who is credited as creator, was primarily responsible for the conception of the title character.  The series' executive producers included Shore, Attanasio, Attanasio's business partner Katie Jacobs, and film director Bryan Singer. It was filmed largely in a neighborhood and business district in Los Angeles County's Westside called Century City. The show received high critical acclaim, and was consistently one of the highest rated series in the United States.  House often clashes with his fellow physicians, including his own diagnostic team, because many of his hypotheses about patients' illnesses are based on subtle or controversial insights. His flouting of hospital rules and procedures frequently leads him into conflict with his boss, hospital administrator and Dean of Medicine Dr. Lisa Cuddy (Lisa Edelstein). House's only true friend is Dr. James Wilson (Robert Sean Leonard), head of the Department of Oncology.  During the first three seasons, House's diagnostic team consists of Dr. Robert Chase (Jesse Spencer), Dr. Allison Cameron (Jennifer Morrison) and Dr. Eric Foreman (Omar Epps). At the end of the third season, this team disbands. Rejoined by Foreman, House gradually selects three new team members: Dr. Remy "Thirteen" Hadley (Olivia Wilde), Dr. Chris Taub (Peter Jacobson) and Dr. Lawrence Kutner (Kal Penn). Chase and Cameron continue to appear occasionally in different roles at the hospital. Kutner dies late in season five; early in season six, Cameron departs the hospital, and Chase returns to the diagnostic team. Thirteen takes a leave of absence for most of season seven, and her position is filled by medical student Martha M. Masters (Amber Tamblyn). Cuddy and Masters depart before season eight; Foreman becomes the new Dean of Medicine, while Dr. Jessica Adams (Odette Annable) and Dr. Chi Park (Charlyne Yi) join House's team.  "House" was among the top 10 series in the United States from its second season through the fourth season. Distributed to 66 countries, "House" was the most-watched television program in the world in 2008. The show received numerous awards, including five Primetime Emmy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, a Peabody Award, and nine People's Choice Awards. On February 8, 2012, Fox announced that the eighth season, then in progress, would be its last. The series finale aired on May 21, 2012, following an hour-long retrospective.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP] Home and Away  Home and Away (often abbreviated as H&A) is an Australian television soap opera. It was created by Alan Bateman and commenced broadcast on the Seven Network on 17 January 1988. Bateman came up with the concept of the show during a trip to Kangaroo Point, New South Wales, where he noticed locals were complaining about the construction of a foster home and against the idea of foster children from the city living in the area. The soap opera was initially going to be called "Refuge", but the name was changed to the "friendlier" title of "Home and Away" once production began. The show premiered with a ninety-minute pilot episode (subsequently in re-runs and on VHS known as "Home and Away: The Movie"). Since then, each subsequent episode has aired for a duration of twenty-two minutes. "Home and Away" has become the second longest-running drama series in Australian television, after "Neighbours". In Australia, it is currently broadcast from Mondays to Thursdays at 7:00 pm.  "Home and Away" follows the lives and loves of the residents in Summer Bay, a fictional seaside town in New South Wales. The series initially focused on the Fletcher family – Tom (Roger Oakley) and Pippa (Vanessa Downing), and their five foster children, Frank Morgan (Alex Papps), Carly Morris (Sharyn Hodgson), Lynn Davenport (Helena Bozich), Steven Matheson (Adam Willits) and Sally Fletcher (Kate Ritchie) – who moved from the city into the Summer Bay House, where they assumed the new job of running the caravan park, and eventually took in a sixth foster child, Bobby Simpson (Nicolle Dickson). "Home and Away" was not without controversy. During the first season alone, it featured several adult-themed storylines such as teen pregnancy, rape, drug and alcohol addiction, drug overdose and attempted suicide. The series has dealt with similar storylines over the years which have often exceeded its restricted time slot. Palm Beach in Sydney's Northern Beaches district has been used as the location for Summer Bay since 1988. The exterior scenes are filmed mainly at Palm Beach, while the interior scenes are filmed at the Australian Technology Park in Redfern.  "Home and Away" has been sold to over eighty countries around the world, making it one of Australia's most successful media exports. In the UK, it and "Neighbours", another Australian soap opera, are the most popular of the genre that are filmed internationally, with them both airing on Channel 5. It is one of the highest-rating shows on RTÉ Television in Ireland and TVNZ 2 in New Zealand. In Australia, "Home and Away" is the most awarded program at the Logie Awards, with a total of forty-eight wins, including Most Popular Drama Program. Some cast members have won several other awards such as the Gold Logie for Most Popular Personality on Australian Television, Silver Logie for Most Popular Actor, and Most Popular Actress. In 2015, "Home and Away" was inducted into the Logie Hall of Fame.
Who was the producer of Home? [SEP] Home (2021 film)  Home (also known as #Home), is an Indian Malayalam-language drama film directed and written by Rojin Thomas. The film stars Indrans, Sreenath Bhasi, Naslen K. Gafoor, Manju Pillai, Johny Antony, Kainakary Thankaraj and Deepa Thomas. The film was released on Amazon Prime Video on 19 August 2021. This film received widespread critical attention. The story, background score, cinematography, social relevance, characterization and performances of the lead cast especially that of Indrans and Manju Pillai were critically acclaimed.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP]  "The Test" is the fifth episode of the second season of the 1970s American television series Land of the Lost. Written by Tom Swale and directed by Bob Lally, it first aired in the United States on October 4, 1975 on NBC.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP]  The Tested is a 2009 independent feature film written and directed by Russell Costanzo and produced by Melissa B. Miller of Shoebox Pictures. It is based on the award-winning short of the same name. Chosen to participant in the 2009 Narrative Independent Filmmaker Lab & Independent Film Week in New York City, the film is one of only ten narrative rough cuts chosen by the Lab for its artistic vision and outstanding promise.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP]  The series was revealed on January 9, 2013, when it was sold into 56% of the country. By April 2013, The Test was sold in over 90% of the country with Tribune Broadcasting's 17 owned stations serving as the series' anchor group in major markets. On April 1, 2014, it was announced that The Test had been canceled.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP]  The Test is a 1914 silent film short directed by and starring Wallace Reid and costarring Dorothy Davenport and Frank Lloyd, later a famous director. Allan Dwan wrote the scenario. It was produced at the Nestor Film Company and released through Universal Film Manufacturing Company.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP]  The Test of Love is a 1999 American television drama film directed by Larry Peerce and starring Roma Downey. It was released by Carla Singer Productions and Hamdon Entertainment. In the United States, at its original airing it was distributed by Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS).
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP] Johnny Test  Johnny Test is an animated television series created by Scott Fellows, originally produced in the United States by Warner Bros. Animation and later produced in Canada by Cookie Jar Entertainment. It premiered on Kids' WB on September 17, 2005, which continued to air the series through its second and third seasons. The rest of the series aired on Cartoon Network starting on January 7, 2008, in the United States and internationally. In Canada, the show premiered on Teletoon on September 3, 2006.  The series revolves around the adventures of the title character, Johnny Test, an 11-year-old suburban boy who lives with his parents, his "super-genius" 13-year-old twin sisters, Susan and Mary, who are scientists and best friends with each other, and a talking dog named Dukey. They reside in the fictional town of Porkbelly in the United States. Johnny is often used as a test subject for his genius twin sisters' inventions and experiments, ranging from gadgets to superpowers. Their experiments often cause problems that he must resolve, and he must sometimes fight villains in the process. He occasionally saves the world with his sisters' inventions.  In 2013, Teletoon originally announced the renewal of a 13-episode seventh season and a three-part special, but it was unproduced after the show was cancelled. However, on May 6, 2020, WildBrain confirmed that a revival series has been picked up by Netflix for two seasons and a 66-minute interactive special, which released in 2021 with Fellows returning as showrunner and executive producer.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP] Test Match Special  Test Match Special (also known as TMS) is a British sports radio programme, originally, as its name implies, dealing exclusively with Test cricket matches, but currently covering any professional cricket. It broadcasts on BBC Radio 4 LW (long wave) and local MW (medium wave) frequencies, BBC Radio Five Sports Extra (digital) and via the internet to the United Kingdom and (where broadcasting rights permit) the rest of the world. TMS provides ball-by-ball coverage of most Test cricket, One Day International, and Twenty20 matches and tournaments involving the England cricket team.
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP] Test screening  A test screening is a preview screening of a movie or television show before its general release to gauge audience reaction. Preview audiences are selected from a cross-section of the population and are usually asked to complete a questionnaire or provide feedback in some form. Harold Lloyd is credited with inventing the concept, having used it as early as 1928. Test screenings have been recommended for starting filmmakers "even if a film festival is fast approaching".
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP] Crash Test Dummies  Crash Test Dummies are a Canadian rock band from Winnipeg, Manitoba.  The band is most identifiable through Brad Roberts (vocals, guitar) and his distinctive bass-baritone voice. The band members have fluctuated over the years, but its best known line-up consisted of Roberts, Ellen Reid (co-vocals, keyboards), Brad's brother Dan Roberts (bass guitar, backing vocals), Benjamin Darvill (harmonica, mandolin), and Mitch Dorge (drums, percussion). The band is best known internationally for their 1993 single "Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm" and best known in Canada for the 1991 single "Superman's Song".
Who was the producer of The Test? [SEP] The Old Grey Whistle Test  The Old Grey Whistle Test (sometimes abbreviated to Whistle Test or OGWT) is a British television music show. The show was devised by BBC producer Rowan Ayers, commissioned by David Attenborough and aired on BBC2 from 1971 to 1988. It took over the BBC2 late-night slot from "Disco 2", which ran between September 1970 and July 1971, while continuing to feature non-chart music. The original producer, involved in an executive capacity throughout the show's entire history, was Michael Appleton.  According to presenter Bob Harris, the programme derived its name from a Tin Pan Alley phrase from years before. When they got the first pressing of a record they would play it to people they called the old greys – doormen in grey suits. Any song the doormen could remember and whistle, having heard it just once or twice, had passed the old grey whistle test.  On 23 February 2018, a one-off live three-hour special of "The Old Grey Whistle Test" was broadcast on BBC Four, hosted by Harris to mark 30 years since the final episode aired.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP]  Me First is the first album by indie band The Elected, released in 2004 via Sub Pop. It is a mix between indie and country.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP]  Me First (Primero yo) is a 1964 Argentine drama film directed by Fernando Ayala, and written by Héctor Olivera and Luis Pico Estrada. It was entered into the 1964 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] Gabriel Mekler – producer ; Bill Cooper – engineer ; Richard Podolor – engineer ; Gary Burden – art direction, cover design ; Henry Diltz – photography
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP]  The first producer in the format with Cosmo and Dibs was Richard Callanan who remained with the show for three series, leaving to join schools' television at Thames TV. His place was taken by Nicci Crowther, who later developed a career as an independent producer and film maker, until her early death in 2008. Sue Aron, Adrian Mills, Diane Morgan, Pat Farrington, Julie Callanan and Cas Lester were among the regular producers and directors. Jill Wilson, Noreen Hunter and Hilary Hardaker were the regular production assistants. Robert Checksfield was the studio Floor Manager who most frequently worked on the show. Assistant Floor Managers included Wendy Pedley, Garry Boon, Simone Dawson, Terry Pettigrew,
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] Producer: Ian A. Anderson, John Turner ; Recording Engineer: Gef Lucena, Ron Geesin ; Jude Holmes, Steven Carr - executive producer
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] You Broke Me First  "You Broke Me First" (often stylized in all lowercase) where it has featured in over a million videos. The song is the second most streamed song released by a female artist in 2020. The song impacted mainstream US radio on August 4, 2020.  "You Broke Me First" peaked at number eight on the Canadian Hot 100. Outside of Canada, "You Broke Me First" peaked within the top ten of the charts in Australia, Belgium (Flanders), Finland, Ireland, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore, Sweden, and the United Kingdom. The song was made explicit on Spotify in June 2022, two years after its official release.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] Despicable Me  Despicable Me is a computer-animated media franchise centering on Gru, a reformed super-villain (who later becomes a father, husband, and secret agent), and his yellow-colored Minions. It is produced by Illumination and distributed by its parent company Universal Pictures.  The franchise began with the 2010 film of the same name, which was followed by two sequels, "Despicable Me 2" (2013) and "Despicable Me 3" (2017), with a future sequel, "Despicable Me 4," expected in 2024; and by two spin-off prequels, "Minions" (2015) and "" (2022). The franchise also includes many short films, a television special, several video games, and a theme park attraction. It is the highest-grossing animated film franchise and the 15th highest-grossing film franchise of all time, having grossed over $4.4 billion globally.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] Dead to Me (TV series)  Dead to Me is an American black comedy television series created by Liz Feldman and executively produced by Feldman, Will Ferrell, Adam McKay, and Jessica Elbaum. The series premiered on May 3, 2019, on Netflix and stars Christina Applegate and Linda Cardellini as two grieving women who bond during therapy. The first season received positive reviews. In June 2019, Netflix renewed the series for a second season which was released on May 8, 2020.  In July 2020, the series was renewed for a third and final season.<ref name="S3Renewal"/> Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, production of the third season was delayed until mid-2021, and was then further delayed by Applegate's multiple sclerosis diagnosis. The third and final season was released on November 17, 2022.<ref name="S3Premiere"/>  At the 72nd Primetime Emmy Awards, the show received four nominations including Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series and two Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for Applegate and Cardellini.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] All Eyez on Me  All Eyez on Me is the fourth studio album by American rapper 2Pac and the last to be released during his lifetime. Released on February 13, 1996, by Death Row and Interscope Records, the album features guest appearances from Dr. Dre, Snoop Doggy Dogg, Redman, Method Man, Nate Dogg, Kurupt, Daz Dillinger, E-40, K-Ci & JoJo, and the Outlawz, among others.  The album features productions by Shakur alongside a variety of producers including DJ Quik, Johnny "J", Dr. Dre, DJ Bobcat, Dat Nigga Daz, DJ Pooh, DeVante Swing, among others. It was the only Death Row/Interscope release that was distributed through PolyGram in the United States.  A gangsta rap album, 2Pac raps about his experiences of living in poverty and in luxury; critics particularly note that 2Pac widely diverges from the social and political consciousness of "2Pacalypse Now" (1991) and "Strictly 4 My N.I.G.G.A.Z..." (1993). The album includes the "Billboard" Hot 100 number-one singles "How Do U Want It" (featuring K-Ci and JoJo) and "California Love" (with Dr. Dre, featuring Roger Troutman) and the hip-hop ballad "I Ain't Mad at Cha", along with the Snoop Doggy Dogg collaboration "2 of Amerikaz Most Wanted" as a promotional single. It featured four singles in all, the most of any of Shakur's albums. Moreover, "All Eyez on Me" made history as the first ever double-full-length hip-hop solo studio album released for mass consumption globally.  "All Eyez on Me" was the second album by 2Pac to chart at number one on both the "Billboard" 200 and the Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums charts, selling 566,000 copies in the first week. Seven months later, 2Pac was fatally wounded in a drive-by shooting. The album won the 1997 Soul Train Music Award for Rap Album of the Year posthumously, and was also posthumously nominated for Best Rap Album at the 39th Grammy Awards in 1997. Shakur also won the award for Favorite Rap/Hip-Hop Artist at the American Music Awards of 1997.  Upon release, "All Eyez on Me" received instant critical acclaim, and it has been ranked by critics as one of the greatest hip hop albums, as well as one of the greatest albums of all time. It was certified Diamond by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) in 2014, with shipments of over 5 million copies (each disc in the double album counted as a separate unit for certification), and in 2020 was ranked 436th on "Rolling Stone"'s updated list of the 500 Greatest Albums of All Time.
Who was the producer of Me First? [SEP] Kiss Me First (TV series)  Kiss Me First is a British cyber-thriller drama series created by Bryan Elsley for Channel 4 and Netflix. It began airing on 2 April 2018 on Channel 4 and was made available on Netflix worldwide on 29 June 2018.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Shine Group was an international distribution group.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Carol Ann Shine is a film producer. A few of her productions include ''Truth. Be. Told., Poses, Recover, Dirty Lies, The Comedy Underground Series, The Boy, and Blackbird.'' She has produced/co-produced 46 credits, written 1 credit, and was the production manager for 2 credits. She was also a cinematographer for 1 credit, and a second unit director or assistant director for 1 credit as well. Ryan Tarpley graduated from Lawrence University and Ohio State University. He is Chief Diversity Officer at Creative Artists Agency (CAA). He is an entertainment executive based out of New York, NY. He is on the Board of Directors at
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 16 November 1998
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 1 April 1997
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 24 November 1997
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Endemol Shine Group  Endemol Shine Group B.V. (stylized in all spaceless) was a Dutch production and distribution company of scripted and non-scripted content, responsible for programmes such as "Big Brother", "Deal or No Deal", "The Money Drop", "Fear Factor", "MasterChef", "Your Face Sounds Familiar", "Peaky Blinders", "Black Mirror", "Humans", "Grantchester" and "Tin Star".  In 2018, Endemol Shine Group had 700 productions on air across 270 platforms and channels. K7 Media report's Tracking the Giants: Top 100 Travelling TV Formats 2018-19 also recognized Endemol Shine Group as the production and distribution company with the most travelled formats in 2018.  Formed in 2015 through a merger of Dutch television studio Endemol and Elisabeth Murdoch's UK-based studio Shine Group, Endemol Shine Group companies included Dragonfly, Kudos, and Princess Productions. It also included Shine TV which was founded in 2001 by Elisabeth Murdoch; and Metronome Film & Television, a Scandinavian-based production group. EndemolShine International was the group's international distribution arm responsible for the distribution of the various formats of the group. The group also established international companies Endemol Shine North America, Endemol Shine Australia, Endemol Shine India, Endemol Shine Germany, Endemol Shine France, and Endemol Shine Iberia.  From 20 March 2019 to 3 July 2020, it was jointly owned by The Walt Disney Company and Apollo Global Management, with each holding a 50% share. On 22 October 2019, French company Banijay announced its intent to acquire Endemol Shine from Disney and Apollo. On 30 June 2020, the European Commission approved Banijay's purchase of Endemol Shine. The purchase was completed on 3 July 2020.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Shinedown  Shinedown is an American rock band from Jacksonville, Florida, formed by singer Brent Smith in 2001 after the dissolution of Dreve, his previous band. Smith, still under contract with record label Atlantic Records, recruited the band's original lineup of Jasin Todd as guitarist, Brad Stewart on bass, and Barry Kerch on drums. Consistent for the first two album cycles, several lineup changes followed in the late 2000s, eventually stabilizing with Smith and Kerch alongside Zach Myers on guitar and Eric Bass on bass. The group has released seven studio albums: "Leave a Whisper" (2003), "Us and Them" (2005), "The Sound of Madness" (2008), "Amaryllis" (2012), "Threat to Survival" (2015), "Attention Attention" (2018), and "Planet Zero" (2022).  Shinedown has the most number one singles on the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock charts with 18, and all of their released singles have reached the top 5 on the chart. Additionally, on June 3, 2021, Shinedown was ranked #1 by Billboard on the Greatest of All Time Mainstreams Rock Artists chart released to celebrate the Mainstream Rock Chart's 40th Anniversary. To date, the band has sold more than 10 million records worldwide.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Praise the Lord (Da Shine)  "Praise the Lord (Da Shine)" is a song by American rapper ASAP Rocky, with production and featured vocals from English rapper Skepta, released as the second single from his third studio album "Testing" on June 26, 2018. It marks the third collaboration between both artists, following Skepta's appearance on "" and ASAP Rocky's appearance on Skepta's "Vicious EP" in 2017.  The song was successful in a number of countries, peaking at number 45 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and number 18 on the UK Official Singles Chart. It was later certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Bill Shine  William Shine (born July 4, 1963) is a former White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications in the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump. He spent most of his career as a producer and executive at Fox News. Most recently, he was co-president of Fox News, a position he held for 9 months before he was forced out on May 1, 2017.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (Pentagon song)  "Shine" (,) is a song recorded by South Korean boy group Pentagon. It was released on April 2, 2018, by Cube Entertainment and distributed by LOEN Entertainment as the lead single from the group's third extended play "Positive". The Japanese version of the song was released by Cube Entertainment Japan, distributed by Universal Music Japan on August 29, 2018. The track was written by E'Dawn, Hui, Yuto, Wooseok with Flow Blow credited as the producer. This is the last Korean single to feature E'Dawn due to his hiatus and subsequent departure from the group.  The Korean music video for the song was uploaded onto 1theK's YouTube channel simultaneously with the single's release. To promote the single, the group performed on several South Korean music show programs, such as "M Countdown" and "Inkigayo".
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP]  Trains of Winnipeg is a film and multimedia art project by Clive Holden, released in stages between 2001 and 2004. The final project included a series of 14 short films, designed as visual representations of Holden's poetry, as well as a soundtrack CD and a book. The short films were scored by Emily Goodden, Christine Fellows, Jason Tait and Steve Bates; additional contributors on the CD included John K. Samson and Leanne Zacharias, as well as an archival recording of Al Purdy. The film series won the New Vision Award at the 2005 Copenhagen International Documentary Festival.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] 1) "Trains of Winnipeg" ; 2) "Grain Train" ; 3) "18,000 Dead in Gordon Head" ; 4) "Death at Neepawa" ; 5) "Neighbours Walk Softly" ; 6) "Nanaimo Station" ; 7) "Condo" ; 8) "Bus North to Thompson with Les at the Wheel" ; 9) "Wind" ; 10) "Transcona" ; 11) "Babette" ; 12) "Nanoose" ; 13) "Necropsy of Al Purdy" ; 14) "Transience" ; 15) "Unbreakable Bones"
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP]  Holden's best-known and publicized project to date is the award-winning "film poem" series Trains of Winnipeg, a collection of 14 short films featuring Holden's poetry with musical accompaniment by Christine Fellows, John K. Samson, Jason Tait, Steve Bates and Emily Goodden. Trains of Winnipeg was screened internationally, a.o. at the IFFR. In it is included the haunting short, 18000 Dead in Gordon Head, in which Holden recalls the shooting of a young girl in Gordon Head, a suburb of Victoria. The 18,000 in the title refers to the average number of murders a television viewer has seen by the time they reach the age of sixteen years.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP]  The Railrodder was produced by the National Film Board of Canada with principal photography being completed in 1964. A "behind-the-scenes" documentary short film that was released likely contains the only known footage of Keaton working behind-the-scenes on a film. The Railrodder was made with the cooperation of the Canadian National Railway, while filming also took place on Canadian Pacific Railway, Great Northern Railway and Pacific Great Eastern Railway lines. An acknowledgment of the cooperation of railroads was given as a final title credit.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] 1) "Trains of Winnipeg" ; 2) "18000 Dead In Gordon Head" ; 3) "Love in the White City" ; 4) "F-Movie" ; 5) "Burning Down the Suburbs" ; 6) "Nanaimo Station" ; 7) "The Jew & the Irishman" ; 8) "Saigon Apartments" ; 9) "Bus North to Thompson with Les at the Wheel" ; 10) "Condo" ; 11) "Neighbours Walk Softly" ; 12) "Unbreakable Bones" ; 13) "Active Pass" ; 14) "Hitler! (revisited)"
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] Trains of Winnipeg  Trains of Winnipeg is a film and multimedia art project by Clive Holden, released in stages between 2001 and 2004. The final project included a series of 14 short films, designed as visual representations of Holden's poetry, as well as a soundtrack CD and a book.  The short films were scored by Emily Goodden, Christine Fellows, Jason Tait and Steve Bates; additional contributors on the CD included John K. Samson and Leanne Zacharias, as well as an archival recording of Al Purdy.  The film series won the New Vision Award at the 2005 Copenhagen International Documentary Festival.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] Winnipeg–Churchill train  The Winnipeg–Churchill train (formerly known as the Hudson Bay and, before that, Northern Spirits) is a semiweekly passenger train operated by Via Rail between Winnipeg and Churchill, Manitoba. It is the only dry-land connection between Churchill and the rest of Canada.  The service, which runs through Manitoba and Saskatchewan, travels on the Canadian National Railway line north to The Pas, where it transfers to the Hudson Bay Railway, passing through Wabowden, Manitoba, with a spur from Thicket Portage to Thompson, and Gillam on its way to the Port of Churchill on Hudson Bay.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] Union Station (Winnipeg)  Union Station is the inter-city railway station for Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. It is a grand beaux-arts structure situated near The Forks in downtown Winnipeg, and was designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1976. The station is also a Heritage Railway Station, so designated since 1989.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] Duluth, Winnipeg and Pacific Railway  The Duluth, Winnipeg and Pacific Railway is a subsidiary railroad of Canadian National Railway (CN) operating in northern Minnesota, United States. A CN system-wide rebranding beginning in 1995 has seen the DWP logo and name largely replaced by its parent company. The DWP line is CN's connection between International Falls and Duluth, Minnesota, where the railroad connects to a short stretch of the former Duluth, Missabe and Iron Range Railway before following the former Wisconsin Central (both now wholly owned by CN) to Chicago, Illinois.  In 1970 DW&P reported 792 million ton-miles of revenue freight and no passenger miles; at the end of that year it operated of road and of track.
Who was the producer of Trains of Winnipeg? [SEP] Winnipeg Railway Museum  The Winnipeg Railway Museum is a railway museum located on tracks 1 and 2 within the Via Rail-operated Union Station in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. Volunteers from the Midwestern Rail Association Inc., a non-profit organization founded in 1975, operate the museum.  The museum is affiliated with CMA, CHIN and Virtual Museum of Canada.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]  The initial showrunners of Family were Nigel McKeand and Carol Evan McKeand, who previously had been writers for The Waltons. After the fourth season, the McKeands departed and were replaced by Edward Zwick, who would go on to produce the acclaimed series thirtysomething, My So-Called Life and Once and Again.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]  Perry Francis Lafferty (October 3, 1917 &ndash; August 25, 2005) was an American television producer and network television executive who produced several television programs, including the CBS programs All in the Family, M*A*S*H, Maude and The Mary Tyler Moore Show. With NBC, he produced the 1985 television movie An Early Frost, one of the first dramatic films to deal with the subject of HIV/AIDS.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]  Michael Warren started his career as the associate producer of The Partridge Family, where he met writer/Producer William S. Bickley. Then as an associate producer on Happy Days for its second season, later a story consultant with William Bickley, who was then a story editor. The two men produced Out of the Blue in 1979. Warren and Bickley later wrote for Happy Days and Perfect Strangers, before creating Family Matters, Getting By and Step by Step between 1989 and 1993, at that point Bickley and Warren became squarely producers instead of producer/writers, before officially ending their partnership around the time of the cancellation of Family Matters and Step by Step and joining the Miller-Boyett team.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]  Family is an American television drama series that aired on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) television network from 1976 to 1980. Creative control of the show was split among executive producers Leonard Goldberg, Aaron Spelling, and Mike Nichols. A total of 86 episodes were produced.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]  The Family is a reality television series that aired on ABC spanning one season in 2003. It starred ten members from an Italian-American family, who were each fighting for a $1,000,000 prize. The show was hosted by George Hamilton.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP] Family Feud  Family Feud is an American television game show created by Mark Goodson. It features two families who compete to name the most popular answers to survey questions in order to win cash and prizes.  The show has had three separate runs, the first of which started in 1976. Its original run from 1976 to 1985 aired on ABC and in syndication, with Richard Dawson as host. In 1988, the series was revived and aired on both CBS and in syndication with Ray Combs hosting until 1994, with Dawson returning until that version ended in 1995. In 1999, the series was revived through its first-run syndication with four different hosts: Louie Anderson (1999–2002), Richard Karn (2002–2006), John O'Hurley (2006–2010), and Steve Harvey (2010–present). Studio announcers who introduced the contestants and read credits included Gene Wood (1976–1995), Burton Richardson (1999–2010), Joey Fatone (2010–2015), and Rubin Ervin (2015–present).  Within a year of its debut, the original version became the number one game show in daytime television; however, as viewing habits changed, the ratings declined. Harvey becoming host in 2010 increased Nielsen ratings significantly and eventually placed the program among the top three most-popular syndicated television shows in the United States. Harvey has also surpassed every previous host in tenure, although Dawson hosted more episodes of the show.  The program has produced multiple regional adaptations in over 50 international markets outside the United States. Reruns of episodes hosted by Steve Harvey air on Game Show Network, as well as in syndication while reruns of earlier versions air on Buzzr. Aside from television shows, there have been also many home editions produced in board game, interactive film, and video game formats.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP] Norman Lear  Norman Milton Lear (born July 27, 1922) is an American producer and screenwriter, who has produced, written, created, or developed over 100 shows. Lear is known for many popular 1970s sitcoms, including the multi-award winning "All in the Family" as well as "Maude", "Sanford and Son", "One Day at a Time," "The Jeffersons", and "Good Times".   Lear has continued to actively produce television, including the 2017 remake of "One Day at a Time" and the Netflix revival of "Good Times" in 2022.  Lear has received many awards, including five Emmys, the National Medal of Arts, and the Kennedy Center Honors. He is a member of the Television Academy Hall of Fame. Lear is also known for his political activism and funding of liberal and progressive causes and politicians. In 1980, he founded the advocacy organization People for the American Way to counter the influence of the Christian right in politics, and in the early 2000s, he mounted a tour with a copy of the Declaration of Independence.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP] Christopher Lloyd (TV producer)  Christopher Lloyd (born June 18, 1960) is an American television producer and screenwriter. Lloyd is the co-creator and executive producer of the ABC mockumentary family sitcom "Modern Family", which he co-created and produced with Steven Levitan. Lloyd has had an extensive career on many series, primarily "Frasier".  Lloyd has won 12 Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on "Modern Family" and "Frasier". He holds the record for Primetime Emmy awards as either a comedy or drama series producer.
Who was the producer of In the Family? [SEP]
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  The Easiest Way is a 1931 American pre-Code MGM drama film directed by Jack Conway. Adapted from the 1909 play of the same name written by Eugene Walter and directed by David Belasco, the film stars Constance Bennett, Adolphe Menjou, Robert Montgomery, Marjorie Rambeau, Anita Page, and Clark Gable
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  She is the author of The Easiest Way book series based on Ho'oponopono. The first book of the series was The Easiest Way; Solve Your Problems and Take The Road to Love, Happiness, Wealth and The Life of Your Dreams. In the book, she told her own story about finding her identity and freedom using this technique. The book has been translated into 15 languages. Other books in the series include The Easiest Way to Live, The Easiest Way Pocket Edition and The Easiest Way to Understanding Ho’oponopono that later became part of The Easiest Way and then was released as The Easiest Way Special Edition. In 2011, she wrote the fifth book of this series titled, Easiest Way to Grow.
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Lynton Brent as Brockton Associate (uncredited) ; Jack Hanlon as Andy Murdock (uncredited) ; John Harron as Chris Swoboda, Laura's Suitor (uncredited) ; Dell Henderson as Bud Williams (uncredited) ; Hedda Hopper as Mrs. Clara Williams (uncredited) ; Charles Judels as Mr. Gensler (uncredited)
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  Warner Archive Collection released the first Region 1 DVD on March 10, 2010.
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  The Easy Way is an album by American jazz composer and arranger Jimmy Giuffre which was released on the Verve label in 1959.
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] The Easiest Way  The Easiest Way is a 1931 American pre-Code MGM drama film directed by Jack Conway. Adapted from the 1909 play of the same name written by Eugene Walter and directed by David Belasco, the film stars Constance Bennett, Adolphe Menjou, Robert Montgomery, Marjorie Rambeau, Anita Page, and Clark Gable
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] The Easiest Way (1917 film)  The Easiest Way is a 1917 American silent film starring Clara Kimball Young and directed by Albert Capellani. It is based on a 1909 play, "The Easiest Way" by Eugene Walter, staged by David Belasco and starred Frances Starr as Laura Murdock. Belasco and Starr revived the play in 1921. It is not known whether the film currently survives.  Actor Joseph Kilgour reprises his role as Brockton from the Broadway play.
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] The Best Damn Thing  The Best Damn Thing is the third studio album by Canadian singer-songwriter Avril Lavigne. It was released on 11 April 2007, by RCA Records. The album represents a musical departure from her earlier studio album "Under My Skin" (2004), which incorporates more elements of post-grunge music. "The Best Damn Thing" is seen by critics as Lavigne's most commercial effort. The album was noted as her first effort to feature a wide range of producers, including Matt Beckley, Rob Cavallo, Dr. Luke and Lavigne herself, who was credited as the executive producer.  Upon its release, "The Best Damn Thing" received generally positive reviews from music critics, who praised Lavigne's transition from grungey alternative rock music to more pop-punk and bubblegum music, with it being catchy and very radio-friendly. However, the main criticism of the album was the lyrical content, which some found too rough or brutal. The album debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200 with first-week sales of 289,000 copies. The album also debuted atop the charts in Austria, Canada, the United Kingdom and many other countries. "Alternative Press" listed it as one of the albums that best represented the pop-punk scene in 2007.  "The Best Damn Thing" had sold over 6 million copies worldwide and it is Lavigne's third best-selling album.<ref name=6kksales/> Four singles were released from the album. Its lead single "Girlfriend" peaked at number one on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, making it Lavigne's most successful chart single to date. The single also reached number one in twelve other countries across the world including Australia, Canada and Japan, making it one of the best-selling singles of 2007 worldwide. The second and third single of the album, "When You're Gone" and "Hot" were moderate hits worldwide, with the former reaching number 24 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. Last single "The Best Damn Thing" reached the lower end of the charts. To promote the album, Lavigne performed at many TV shows and award ceremonies, including the 2007 Teen Choice Awards and the 2007 MTV Europe Music Awards, as well as a musical guest on "Saturday Night Live". Furthermore, Lavigne embarked on a concert tour, entitled The Best Damn World Tour, starting on 8 March 2008, and ending on 6 October 2008. Footage from the concert at the Air Canada Centre in Toronto were recorded and released on a DVD titled "".
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Easy Rider  Easy Rider is a 1969 American independent drug culture road drama film written by Peter Fonda, Dennis Hopper, and Terry Southern, produced by Fonda, and directed by Hopper. Fonda and Hopper play two bikers who travel through the American Southwest and South, carrying the proceeds from a cocaine deal. The success of "Easy Rider" helped spark the New Hollywood era of filmmaking during the early 1970s.  A landmark counterculture film, and a "touchstone for a generation" that "captured the national imagination," "Easy Rider" explores the societal landscape, issues, and tensions towards adolescents in the United States during the 1960s, such as the rise of the hippie movement, drug use, and communal lifestyle. Real drugs were used in scenes showing the use of marijuana and other substances.  Released by Columbia Pictures on July 14, 1969, "Easy Rider" earned $60 million worldwide from a filming budget of no more than $400,000.<ref name=BudgetCitations/><ref name="box office"/> Critics have praised the performances, directing, writing, soundtrack, and visuals. It received two Academy Awards nominations for Best Original Screenplay and Best Supporting Actor (Jack Nicholson).   In 1998, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the producer of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Best Thing I Never Had  "Best Thing I Never Had" is a song recorded by American singer Beyoncé for her fourth studio album, "4" (2011). It was released by Columbia Records on June 1, 2011, as the second single from the album. "Best Thing I Never Had" was composed by Patrick "J. Que" Smith, Kenneth "Babyface" Edmonds, Symbolyc One, Caleb Sean McCampbell, Antonio Dixon, Beyoncé, and Shea Taylor. The song was originally not written as a ballad, but was inspired by the drumming on Doug E. Fresh's 1985 single "The Show". Beyoncé said that both men and women should be able to relate to the song.  A pop and R&B ballad, the subjects of "Best Thing I Never Had" are revenge and karma. Not wanting to feel broken-hearted, the female protagonist sings that she feels happy to have left her lover, who did not recognize the potential for a happy life with her. Some critics viewed it as a sequel to Beyoncé's 2006 single "Irreplaceable" as the two songs are thematically similar. However, some lyrics, including "showed your ass" and "sucks to be you right now", were criticized. The ballad was also likened to Vanessa Carlton's single "A Thousand Miles" (2002).  "Best Thing I Never Had" peaked at number 16 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and at number four on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It rose to number three on the UK Singles Chart and number two on the Irish Singles Chart among others. The song reached number one on the South Korea Gaon International Chart, the UK R&B Chart, and the US Hot Dance Club Play chart, and the top 30 in mainland Europe, Oceania, and Canada. It was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and gold by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand (RIANZ).  The accompanying music video for "Best Thing I Never Had" was directed by Diane Martel. It shows Beyoncé getting ready for her wedding while she recalls her ex-lover, who never gave her the attention she deserved. "Best Thing I Never Had" was promoted with several live performances by Beyoncé, notably at the 2011 Glastonbury Festival and on the televised ABC show "The View". The song was also included on the set list for her concert "4 Intimate Nights with Beyoncé" and other shows.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] Starring Forest Whitaker, Mickey Rourke, and Adriana Lima ; Directed by Wong Kar-wai ; Written by Andrew Kevin Walker ; Featured the BMW 328i Coupé and the Z3 roadster The Driver is hired by a nervous manager to spy on a paranoid actor's wife. The Driver narrates while following the wife, describing the right methods to survey someone, as well as his fear of what he might learn of the wife's tragic life. He eventually discovers the wife is fleeing the country to return to her mother in Brazil, and that she's been given a black eye—likely by her husband. He returns the money for the job, refusing to tell the manager where the wife is, and tells the manager to never call him again before driving off.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] Charles Ray as Ezry Hollins ; Charles K. French as Caleb Endicott (credited as Charles French) ; Robert Gordon as Walter Endicott (credited as Gilbert Gordon) ; Doris May as Ruth Endicott ; Lydia Knott as Mrs. Endicott ; William Fairbanks as Stuart Morley (credited as Carl Ullman)
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP]  or was fired, although Carey indicated in a later interview with Esquire that Dobkowitz was fired. As of 2011, the show uses multiple producers, all long-time staffers. Adam Sandler (not to be confused with the actor) is the producer and director of the show. Stan Blits, who joined the show in 1980 and Sue MacIntyre are the co-producers. Stan Blits is also the contestant coordinator for the show. In 2007, he wrote the book Come on Down (ISBN: 978-0061350115), that goes behind the scenes of the show. In the book he dispels the myth that contestants are chosen at random, and gives readers an inside look at how shows are planned
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] Starring Don Cheadle and F. Murray Abraham ; cameos by Ray Liotta, Robert Patrick, Clifton Powell and Dennis Haysbert as US agents ; Written and directed by Joe Carnahan ; Featured the BMW Z4 3.0i In an unnamed foreign country, a man carrying a mysterious briefcase survives an ambush en route to his destination. The Driver rescues and escorts the man while under helicopter attack. During the chase, the briefcase is struck by a bullet, causing it to leak grey fluid and the number on its display to begin counting down. The Driver manages to cause the helicopter to crash, but
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP]  The film was produced by Chinneylove Eze Productions Ltd.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] Film producer  A film producer is a person who oversees film production. Either employed by a production company or working independently, producers plan and coordinate various aspects of film production, such as selecting the script, coordinating writing, directing, editing, and arranging financing.  The producer is responsible for finding and selecting promising material for development. These activities culminate with the pitch, led by the producer, to secure the financial backing that enables production to begin. If all succeeds, the project is "greenlighted".  The producer also supervises the pre-production, principal photography and post-production stages of filmmaking. A producer is also responsible for hiring a director for the film, as well as other key crew members. Whereas the director makes the creative decisions during the production, the producer typically manages logistics and business operations, though some directors also produce their own films. The producer must ensure the film is delivered on time and within budget, and in the latter stages before release, will oversee the marketing and distribution of the film.  Producers cannot always supervise all of the production. In this case, the primary producer or executive producer may hire and delegate work to associate producers, assistant producers, line producers, or unit production managers.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] The Hire  The BMW film series The Hire is a series of eight short films (averaging about ten minutes each) produced for the Internet in 2001 and 2002. A form of branded content, the shorts were directed by popular filmmakers from around the globe and starred Clive Owen as "the Driver" while highlighting the performance aspects of various BMW automobiles. The series made a comeback in 2016, fourteen years after its original run ended.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] The Hired Hand  The Hired Hand is a 1971 American western film directed by Peter Fonda, with a screenplay by Alan Sharp. The film stars Fonda, Warren Oates, and Verna Bloom. The cinematography was by Vilmos Zsigmond. Bruce Langhorne provided the moody film score. The story is about a man returning to his abandoned wife after seven years of drifting from job to job throughout the Southwestern United States. The embittered woman will only let him stay if he agrees to move in as a hired hand.  Upon release, the film received a mixed critical response and was a financial failure. In 1973, the film was shown on NBC-TV in an expanded version, but soon drifted into obscurity. In 2001, a fully restored version was shown at various film festivals, gaining strong critical praise, and it was released by the Sundance Channel on DVD. It is now considered a classic Western of the period.
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP]
Who was the producer of Hired!? [SEP] The Maid I Hired Recently Is Mysterious  , also known as My Recently Hired Maid is Suspicious, is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Wakame Konbu. The series debuted as a webcomic in 2019 before it began serialization in Square Enix's "Monthly Gangan Joker" magazine in January 2020. The series has been compiled into six "tankōbon" volumes as of September 2022. An anime television series adaptation by Silver Link and Blade aired from July to October 2022.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Shine Group was an international distribution group.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Carol Ann Shine is a film producer. A few of her productions include ''Truth. Be. Told., Poses, Recover, Dirty Lies, The Comedy Underground Series, The Boy, and Blackbird.'' She has produced/co-produced 46 credits, written 1 credit, and was the production manager for 2 credits. She was also a cinematographer for 1 credit, and a second unit director or assistant director for 1 credit as well. Ryan Tarpley graduated from Lawrence University and Ohio State University. He is Chief Diversity Officer at Creative Artists Agency (CAA). He is an entertainment executive based out of New York, NY. He is on the Board of Directors at
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 16 November 1998
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 1 April 1997
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP]  Released 24 November 1997
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Endemol Shine Group  Endemol Shine Group B.V. (stylized in all spaceless) was a Dutch production and distribution company of scripted and non-scripted content, responsible for programmes such as "Big Brother", "Deal or No Deal", "The Money Drop", "Fear Factor", "MasterChef", "Your Face Sounds Familiar", "Peaky Blinders", "Black Mirror", "Humans", "Grantchester" and "Tin Star".  In 2018, Endemol Shine Group had 700 productions on air across 270 platforms and channels. K7 Media report's Tracking the Giants: Top 100 Travelling TV Formats 2018-19 also recognized Endemol Shine Group as the production and distribution company with the most travelled formats in 2018.  Formed in 2015 through a merger of Dutch television studio Endemol and Elisabeth Murdoch's UK-based studio Shine Group, Endemol Shine Group companies included Dragonfly, Kudos, and Princess Productions. It also included Shine TV which was founded in 2001 by Elisabeth Murdoch; and Metronome Film & Television, a Scandinavian-based production group. EndemolShine International was the group's international distribution arm responsible for the distribution of the various formats of the group. The group also established international companies Endemol Shine North America, Endemol Shine Australia, Endemol Shine India, Endemol Shine Germany, Endemol Shine France, and Endemol Shine Iberia.  From 20 March 2019 to 3 July 2020, it was jointly owned by The Walt Disney Company and Apollo Global Management, with each holding a 50% share. On 22 October 2019, French company Banijay announced its intent to acquire Endemol Shine from Disney and Apollo. On 30 June 2020, the European Commission approved Banijay's purchase of Endemol Shine. The purchase was completed on 3 July 2020.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Shinedown  Shinedown is an American rock band from Jacksonville, Florida, formed by singer Brent Smith in 2001 after the dissolution of Dreve, his previous band. Smith, still under contract with record label Atlantic Records, recruited the band's original lineup of Jasin Todd as guitarist, Brad Stewart on bass, and Barry Kerch on drums. Consistent for the first two album cycles, several lineup changes followed in the late 2000s, eventually stabilizing with Smith and Kerch alongside Zach Myers on guitar and Eric Bass on bass. The group has released seven studio albums: "Leave a Whisper" (2003), "Us and Them" (2005), "The Sound of Madness" (2008), "Amaryllis" (2012), "Threat to Survival" (2015), "Attention Attention" (2018), and "Planet Zero" (2022).  Shinedown has the most number one singles on the "Billboard" Mainstream Rock charts with 18, and all of their released singles have reached the top 5 on the chart. Additionally, on June 3, 2021, Shinedown was ranked #1 by Billboard on the Greatest of All Time Mainstreams Rock Artists chart released to celebrate the Mainstream Rock Chart's 40th Anniversary. To date, the band has sold more than 10 million records worldwide.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Praise the Lord (Da Shine)  "Praise the Lord (Da Shine)" is a song by American rapper ASAP Rocky, with production and featured vocals from English rapper Skepta, released as the second single from his third studio album "Testing" on June 26, 2018. It marks the third collaboration between both artists, following Skepta's appearance on "" and ASAP Rocky's appearance on Skepta's "Vicious EP" in 2017.  The song was successful in a number of countries, peaking at number 45 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and number 18 on the UK Official Singles Chart. It was later certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Bill Shine  William Shine (born July 4, 1963) is a former White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Communications in the administration of U.S. President Donald Trump. He spent most of his career as a producer and executive at Fox News. Most recently, he was co-president of Fox News, a position he held for 9 months before he was forced out on May 1, 2017.
Who was the producer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (Pentagon song)  "Shine" (,) is a song recorded by South Korean boy group Pentagon. It was released on April 2, 2018, by Cube Entertainment and distributed by LOEN Entertainment as the lead single from the group's third extended play "Positive". The Japanese version of the song was released by Cube Entertainment Japan, distributed by Universal Music Japan on August 29, 2018. The track was written by E'Dawn, Hui, Yuto, Wooseok with Flow Blow credited as the producer. This is the last Korean single to feature E'Dawn due to his hiatus and subsequent departure from the group.  The Korean music video for the song was uploaded onto 1theK's YouTube channel simultaneously with the single's release. To promote the single, the group performed on several South Korean music show programs, such as "M Countdown" and "Inkigayo".
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP]   De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland  is a 1942 Dutch film directed by Ernst Winar.
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP]  Ruud van Hemert was the son of television producer Willy van Hemert, and followed in his father's footsteps, making two television films for the VPRO, TV-Eiland (1965), and Pepijn op wieletjes ("a children's film for and about naughty children" conceived by Hans Andreus, followed by a few other children's shows, with Harrie Geelen. A breakthrough was the (stylistically experimental) documentary Oranje Vrijstaat, which had controversial politician Roel van Duijn as a central figure. His career took off when he cooperated with Wim T. Schippers, Gied Jaspars, and Wim van der Linden on such shows as De Fred Hachéshow (1971), Barend is weer bezig (1972–1973), and Van Oekel's Discohoek (1974), a
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Max Croiset ; Jules Verstraete ; Aaf Bouber ; Jeanne Verstraete ; Coen Hissink ; Daan Van Olleffen ; Marie Faassen ; Hedwig Flemming
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Bad (A "lesbian road movie"). Production was planned for 2005 ; Duizend en één dag ("A Thousand and One Days"). A drama series about young Muslims struggling with their faith. Although this project had not even reached pre-production, Van Gogh had already found a broadcaster for the series: Dutch Muslim Broadcasting Organisation NMO.
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP]  Frijters was discouraged from maintaining her interest in filmmaking after the critical and commercial backlash of Leentje van de Zee, though her husband, François Frijters, made a Newsreel film called Inhuldiging van het standbeeld van Guido Gezelle (Inauguration of the Statue of Guido Gezelle) in 1930. However, Frijters wrote a short comedy screenplay called De verloofde uit Canada (The Fiancé from Canada), which revolved around a working-class man who returned home from Canada and discovered that his fiancée Betty no longer loved him and was married to someone else. The main character was played by a comedian, Lowieke Staal.
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Eiland  Eiland is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Coen Hissink  Johan Coenraad "Coen" Hissink (5 October 1878 – 17 February 1942) was a Dutch film actor of the silent era. He appeared in 25 films between 1914 and 1942. He also wrote short stories and books about controversial topics such as homosexuality, prostitution and cocaine. During the Second World War, he became a member of the resistance. He was interned at Neuengamme concentration camp in 1941 and died there in 1942.
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Max Croiset  Max Croiset (13 August 1912 – 7 April 1993) was a Dutch actor. He appeared in 30 films between 1934 and 1993. He starred in the film "The Village on the River", which was entered into the 9th Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the producer of De Laatste Dagen van een Eiland? [SEP] Aaf Bouber  Aaf Bouber (17 October 1885 – 23 May 1974) was a Dutch stage, film and television actress. She was born Aafje ten Hoope and married the stage actor Herman Bouber in 1907.
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP]  City of Beautiful Nonsense is a 1935 British drama film directed by Adrian Brunel and starring Emlyn Williams, Sophie Stewart and Eve Lister. The film is based on the best-selling 1909 novel of the same name by E. Temple Thurston, which had previously been filmed as a silent by Henry Edwards in 1919. The plot deals with a young woman who is in love with a penniless composer, but believes she must marry a wealthy man to please her father and only realises after various tribulations that she should follow her heart rather than her head.
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP]  City of Beautiful Nonsense is a 1919 British silent film drama directed by Henry Edwards, who also starred in the film with Chrissie White. The film is based on the best-selling 1909 novel of the same name by E. Temple Thurston and is a tale of a woman intending to marry for financial gain and security, who realises at the last minute that to be true to herself and to have the prospect of a happy future she must instead marry for love. A sound version of the same story was made in 1935 by Adrian Brunel. The film appears to have been well received and popular with audiences and has been described as "the most talked about British film of 1919" and "technically on a par with the current Hollywood imports". A contemporary review in The Bioscope admired Edwards' "poetic embellishments" and "symbolistic touches".
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] Henry Edwards as John Grey ; Chrissie White as Jill Dealtry ; Henry Vibart as Thomas Grey ; Gwynne Herbert as Mrs. Grey ; James Lindsay as Skipworth ; Douglas Munro as Chesterton ; Stephen Ewart as Mr. Dealtry ; Teddy Taylor as Tommy Dealtry
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] Emlyn Williams as Jack Grey ; Sophie Stewart as Jill Dealtry ; Eve Lister as Amber ; George Carney as Chesterton ; Marie Wright as Dorothy Grey ; Eric Maturin as Robert Downing ; J. Fisher White as Thomas Grey ; Daisy Dormer as Mrs. Deakin ; Hubert Harben as Mr. Dealtry ; Margaret Damer as Mrs. Dealtry ; Dorothy Vernon as Mrs. Rowse
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP]  This Beautiful City is a Canadian drama film directed by Ed Gass-Donnelly. It premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2007 and had a general theatrical release in 2008. The film depicts the lives of five disparate characters in Downtown Toronto. Johnny (Aaron Poole) is a recovering crack cocaine addict trying to convince his prostitute girlfriend Pretty (Kristin Booth) to move with him to a new city so they can make a clean break from their old lives, while Harry (Noam Jenkins) and Carol (Caroline Cave) are a wealthy couple. Events are set in motion when Carol falls from the balcony of her condo in an apparent suicide attempt, landing just metres away from Johnny and Pretty in the alleyway below. She survives, but Peter (Stuart Hughes), a police detective, finds her and the group's lives begin to intertwine.
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] The City of Beautiful Nonsense (novel)  The City of Beautiful Nonsense was a best-selling novel written by Ernest Temple Thurston. It became the inspiration for two films. It was originally published by Chapman and Hall in 1909, but because the copyright has expired, the text of the book is now in the public domain. There was a "new and illustrated" edition, with illustrations by Emile Verpilleux, published a year later in 1910. It may fairly be described as a sentimental novel: Temple Thurston himself wrote that "To many, from the first page to the last, it had not the faintest conception of reality, and indeed has earned for me the classification of sentimentalist". This was in the Author's Note to the sequel, entitled "The World of Wonderful Reality", published a decade later in 1919. His obituary in "The Times" (20 March 1933) stated that "there were those who might suggest that sentimentalism was too evident in Temple Thurston's work". As well as being a vehicle for Edwardian romanticism, the novel shares the Roman Catholic faith of its author with its main characters. It is a tale of two cities: mainly Edwardian London, but also Venice.
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] City of Beautiful Nonsense (1935 film)  City of Beautiful Nonsense is a 1935 British drama film directed by Adrian Brunel and starring Emlyn Williams, Sophie Stewart and Eve Lister. The film is based on the best-selling 1909 novel of the same name by E. Temple Thurston, which had previously been filmed as a silent by Henry Edwards in 1919. The plot deals with a young woman who is in love with a penniless composer, but believes she must marry a wealthy man to please her father and only realises after various tribulations that she should follow her heart rather than her head.
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] The City of Beautiful Nonsense (1919 film)  City of Beautiful Nonsense is a 1919 British silent film drama directed by Henry Edwards, who also starred in the film with Chrissie White. The film is based on the best-selling 1909 novel of the same name by E. Temple Thurston and is a tale of a woman intending to marry for financial gain and security, who realises at the last minute that to be true to herself and to have the prospect of a happy future she must instead marry for love. A sound version of the same story was made in 1935 by Adrian Brunel.  The film appears to have been well received and popular with audiences and has been described as "the most talked about British film of 1919" and "technically on a par with the current Hollywood imports". A contemporary review in "The Bioscope" admired Edwards' "poetic embellishments" and "symbolistic touches".
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP]
Who was the director of City of Beautiful Nonsense? [SEP] E. Temple Thurston  Ernest Charles Temple Thurston (23 September 1879 – 19 March 1933) was a British poet, playwright and author.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP]  In May 1937, Miriam Hopkins and Kay Francis were originally announced as female stars. In December 1937 Warners announced the film would be made the following year from a script by Milton Krims. In April 1938 Irene Dunne was announced for the lead. By this stage Anatole Litvak was attached to direct and Kane Bryan was to play one of the sisters. Then in May, Warners said that Dunne had been replaced by Bette Davis. Following Jezebel, Bette Davis was dismayed to be assigned to Comet Over Broadway, a melodrama in which she would portray a Broadway actress who sacrifices her career to care for her ne'er-do-well husband when he
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP]  of the television sitcom M*A*S*H. In 1987, Catlett directed a production of Dan Goggin's Nunsense after meeting with Goggin and discussing the character of Sister Mary Regina. It was staged at the Mark Two Dinner Theatre in Orlando, Florida. Catlett decided to play Sister Mary as well, taking on a dual role as both director and performer. She was partially inspired to direct the show after witnessing directors' unfair treatment of her castmates in previous productions. She said, "I have worked with many directors who were tyrannical. You get afraid to do anything because he'll yell, 'Don't do that!' It makes you crazy... as a director, I believe that there can be a democracy."
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP]  The Sisters is a 2005 film starring Maria Bello, Mary Stuart Masterson, and Erika Christensen as the title characters; it also stars Alessandro Nivola, Rip Torn, Eric McCormack, Steven Culp, Tony Goldwyn and Chris O'Donnell. The film was written by Richard Alfieri (based on his own play) and directed by Arthur Allan Seidelman. The Sisters is inspired by Anton Chekhov's 1901 play Three Sisters. It tells the story of three sisters and a brother, their family dysfunctions, and the siblings dealing with their ups and downs after the death of their father.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP]  directed the documentaries Sisters (1998), Priests (1998), Out of Nowhere (2000, asylum seekers), Ainé's Journey (2000) and Singleton (2002). Connolly made his feature film directorial debut with Flick in 2000 in conjunction with producer Fiona Bergin. The film starred David Murray, Isabelle Menke, David Wilmot (actor), Gerard Mannix Flynn, Catherine Punch and Alan Devlin. The plot focuses on two small-time drug dealers going about their business in Dublin. Connolly wrote the film's script with little expectation of it being made. He shot the film in 18 days with no budget. The movie had its world premiere at the 44th Murphy's Cork Film Festival
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP]  Sisters is a 2006 independent horror film directed by Douglas Buck. A remake of the 1972 Brian De Palma film of the same name, it stars Stephen Rea, Lou Doillon, and Chloë Sevigny in the leading roles, with Dallas Roberts and JR Bourne playing supporting characters.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP] The Wachowskis  Lana Wachowski (born June 21, 1965, formerly known as Larry Wachowski) and Lilly Wachowski (born December 29, 1967, formerly known as Andy Wachowski) The sisters are both trans women.<ref name="hr20160308" /><ref name="var20160308" />  Together known as the Wachowskis (), the sisters have worked as a writing and directing team through most of their careers. They made their directing debut in 1996 with "Bound" and achieved fame with their second film, "The Matrix" (1999), a major box office success for which they won the Saturn Award for Best Director. They wrote and directed its two sequels, "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions" (both in 2003), and were involved in the writing and production of other works in the "Matrix" franchise.  Following the commercial success of the "Matrix" series, the Wachowskis wrote and produced the 2005 film "V for Vendetta", an adaptation of the graphic novel by Alan Moore and David Lloyd, and in 2008 released the film "Speed Racer", a live-action adaptation of the Japanese anime series. Their next film, "Cloud Atlas", based on the novel by David Mitchell and co-written and co-directed by Tom Tykwer, was released in 2012. Their film "Jupiter Ascending" and the Netflix series "Sense8", which they co-created with J. Michael Straczynski, debuted in 2015; the second season of "Sense8" ended the series in 2018 and was Lana's first major creative undertaking without Lilly.  Since the series finale of "Sense8", the Wachowskis have been working separately on different projects: Lilly directed, wrote, and executive-produced several episodes of Showtime's "Work in Progress" (2019) with creators Abby McEnany and Tim Mason, while Lana filmed "The Matrix Resurrections", written with Mitchell and Aleksandar Hemon, which was released in December 2021.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP] Jen and Sylvia Soska  Jen Soska and Sylvia Soska (born April 29, 1983), also known as The Soska Sisters or The Twisted Twins, are Canadian twin sisters who work together as film directors, producers and screenwriters. They are known for directing often violent and visceral horror movies such as "Dead Hooker in a Trunk", "See No Evil 2" and "American Mary".
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP] Blood Sisters (2022 series)  Blood Sisters is a 2022 Nigerian thriller series produced by Netflix. The series, which has been described as the first Nigerian Netflix Original series, stars Ini Dima-Okojie and Nancy Isime in the lead, with Ramsey Noah, Kate Henshaw, Wale Ojo, Kehinde Bankole, Deyemi Okanlawon, Gabriel Afolayan, Tope Tedela among other cast members. The four-part series was released on 5 May 2022 and the release was born of the collaboration of Netflix and Mo Abudu through her media company, Ebonylife TV. "Blood Sisters" was directed by Biyi Bandele and Kenneth Gyang.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP] Sisters (2015 film)  Sisters is a 2015 American comedy film directed by Jason Moore, written by Paula Pell and is the second collaboration between Tina Fey and Amy Poehler following the film "Baby Mama" (2008). The rest of the cast consists of Maya Rudolph, Ike Barinholtz, James Brolin, John Cena, John Leguizamo, and Dianne Wiest. The film centers on adult sisters Kate, an irresponsible single mother, and Maura, a kindhearted nurse and recent divorcee, who are summoned back to their childhood home by their parents to clean out their bedroom before the house gets sold. Upset and angry that all their childhood memories are going to be gone, Kate convinces Maura to have one last wild house party, but things soon get out of control.  The film was released on December 18, 2015 by Universal Pictures, received mixed reviews, though most critics praised the chemistry of the lead actresses, and grossed $105 million on a production budget of $33 million.
Who was the director of The Sisters? [SEP] Four Sisters and a Wedding  Four Sisters and a Wedding is a 2013 Filipino Family comedy-drama film directed by Cathy Garcia-Molina. The film features Star Cinema's most prominent young actresses: Toni Gonzaga, Bea Alonzo, Angel Locsin and Shaina Magdayao, as the four sisters attempting to stop the wedding of their younger brother played by Enchong Dee. Actress Angelica Panganiban was originally part of the main cast but was pulled out and was replaced by Shaina Magdayao.  The film is part of Star Cinema's 20th anniversary presentation in collaboration with Rebisco on its 50th anniversary. "Four Sisters and a Wedding" was released in the Philippines on June 26, 2013, and internationally on July 5, 2013.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP]  Those Who Love is a 1929 British drama film directed by H. Manning Haynes and starring Adele Blanche, William Freshman and Carol Goodner. It was based on the novel Mary Was Love by Guy Fletcher. Anna Neagle made her debut in the film, playing a small part.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP]  Those Who Love is a 1926 silent film, produced in Australia, about the son of a knight who falls in love with a dancer. Only part of the film survives today and it is held by the National Film and Sound Archive.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP]  Those We Love is a 1932 American pre-Code film directed by Robert Florey. It was adapted by F. Hugh Herbert from the play by George Abbott and S.K. Lauren. The film was independently produced and distributed.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] Adele Blanche ... Mary / Lorna ; William Freshman ... David Mellor ; Lawson Butt ... Joe ; Carol Goodner ... Anne ; Hannah Jones ... Babe ; Dino Galvani ... Frenchman ; Anna Neagle ... Minor role
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] Marie Lorraine as Lola Quayle ; William Carter as Barry Manton ; Robert Purdie as Sir James Manton ; Sylvia Newland as Bebe Doree ; George Dean as Parker ; Kate Trefle as Lady Manton ; Big Bill Wilson as Ace Skinner ; Charles Beetham as Austin Mann ; Reginald Reeves as Sir Furneaux Reeves ; Jackie Williamson as Peter ; Nellie Ferguson as nurse ; Howard Harris as doctor ; Edith Hodgson ; Herbert Walton
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] It's All About Love  It's All About Love is a 2003 English-language Danish romance-drama film written and directed by Thomas Vinterberg. Its narrative can be classified as apocalyptic science fiction, but Vinterberg prefers to call it "a dream". Unlike the director's earlier Danish-language films, "It's All About Love" is entirely in English and stars Joaquin Phoenix, Claire Danes and Sean Penn. The production was led by Denmark's Nimbus Film, but the film was largely an international co-production, with involvement of companies from nine different countries in total. It was very poorly received by film critics.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] Thor: Love and Thunder  Thor: Love and Thunder is a 2022 American superhero film based on Marvel Comics featuring the character Thor. Produced by Marvel Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the sequel to "" (2017) and the 29th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Taika Waititi, who co-wrote the screenplay with Jennifer Kaytin Robinson, and stars Chris Hemsworth as Thor alongside Christian Bale, Tessa Thompson, Jaimie Alexander, Waititi, Russell Crowe, and Natalie Portman. In the film, Thor attempts to find inner peace, but must return to action and recruit Valkyrie (Thompson), Korg (Waititi), and Jane Foster (Portman)—who is now the Mighty Thor—to stop Gorr the God Butcher (Bale) from eliminating all gods.   Hemsworth and Waititi had discussed plans for a sequel to "Ragnarok" by January 2018. "Love and Thunder" was announced in July 2019, with Hemsworth, Waititi, and Thompson all set to return, as well as Portman who did not appear in "Ragnarok". Waititi wanted to differentiate "Love and Thunder" from "Ragnarok", seeking to make a romance film and 1980s-inspired adventure. He adapted elements from Jason Aaron's run on the "Mighty Thor" comic book, which sees Foster take on the mantle and powers of Thor whilst under treatment for cancer. Robinson joined to contribute to the script in February 2020, and further casting was revealed later that year including the appearance of the Guardians of the Galaxy. Production was expected to begin in late 2020 but was delayed by the COVID-19 pandemic. Filming ultimately began in January 2021 in Sydney, Australia, and concluded at the beginning of June. The film's production budget of $250 million made it one of the most-expensive films ever made.  "Thor: Love and Thunder" premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Hollywood on June 23, 2022, and was released in the United States on July 8, as part of of the MCU. The film received mixed reviews from critics, with praise for its light-hearted nature, visuals, and the performances of Hemsworth, Bale and Portman, while criticism was aimed at the screenplay, tonal inconsistency, and Gorr's underdeveloped characterization; many critics deemed the film inferior to "Ragnarok". "Love and Thunder" grossed over $760 million worldwide, making it the eighth-highest-grossing film of 2022.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] Love Actually  Love Actually is a 2003 Christmas romantic comedy film written and directed by Richard Curtis. It features an ensemble cast, composed predominantly of British actors, many of whom had worked with Curtis in previous film and television projects. Mostly filmed on location in London, the screenplay delves into different aspects of love as shown through ten separate stories involving a wide variety of individuals, many of whom are shown to be interlinked as the tales progress. The story begins five weeks before Christmas and is played out in a weekly countdown until the holiday, followed by an epilogue that takes place one month later.  An international co-production between the United Kingdom, the United States and France,<ref name="Christmas"/>  A made-for-television short film sequel, "Red Nose Day Actually", aired in two different versions on BBC One and NBC in 2017.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] Those Who Love Me Can Take the Train  Those Who Love Me Can Take the Train () is a 1998 French drama film directed by Patrice Chéreau and  written by Chéreau, Danièle Thompson and Pierre Trividic. It stars Pascal Greggory, Vincent Perez, Charles Berling and Dominique Blanc.
Who was the director of Those Who Love? [SEP] I Love Lucy  I Love Lucy is an American television sitcom that originally aired on CBS from October 15, 1951, to May 6, 1957, with a total of 180 half-hour episodes, spanning six seasons. The show starred Lucille Ball, her husband, Desi Arnaz, along with Vivian Vance and William Frawley. The series followed the life of Lucy Ricardo (Ball), a young, middle-class housewife living in New York City, who often concocted plans with her best friends and landlords, Ethel and Fred Mertz (Vance and Frawley), to appear alongside her bandleader husband, Ricky Ricardo (Arnaz), in his nightclub. Lucy is depicted trying numerous schemes to mingle with and be a part of show business. After the series ended in 1957, a modified version of the show continued for three more seasons, with 13 one-hour specials, which ran from 1957 to 1960. It was first known as "The Lucille Ball–Desi Arnaz Show," and later, in reruns, as "The Lucy–Desi Comedy Hour".  "I Love Lucy" became the most-watched show in the United States in four of its six seasons and it was the first to end its run at the top of the Nielsen ratings. As of 2011, episodes of the show have been syndicated in dozens of languages across the world and remain popular with an American audience of 40 million each year. A colorized version of its Christmas episode attracted more than eight million viewers when CBS aired it in prime time in 2013, 62 years after the show premiered. CBS has aired two to three colorized episodes each year since then, once at Christmas and again in the spring.  The show – which was the first scripted television program to be shot on 35 mm film in front of a studio audience, by cinematographer Karl Freund – won five Emmy Awards and received many nominations and honors. It was the first show to feature an ensemble cast. As such, it is often regarded as both one of the greatest and most influential sitcoms in history. In 2012, it was voted the 'Best TV Show of All Time' in a survey conducted by ABC News and "People" magazine.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP]  After Cousins retired as executive director, Kay Wilson (born September 21, 1939) took over as executive officer (the title changed, but her position still functioned as executive director) from October 1991 until her death in June 2003, of cancer.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP]  When Kay Wilson died in 2003, the national council reviewed the position of executive officer and decided to split the position's function into two positions: "rector" (a new position with broader outreach and strategic planning functions) and "executive officer" (the position with office management functions that had been in place since the beginning). A search began in 2003, and Virginia Andreoli Mathie, PhD, who had been a professor of psychology at James Madison University (Virginia), was hired as the first executive director in the newly created position. She began on July 1, 2004, and served until June 30, 2008. Dr. Mathie was responsible for coordinating with other psychological organizations, long-term strategic planning, and assisting universities applying for a Psi Chi chapter.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP]  Larry David Paciotti (born November 8, 1959) is an American director of pornographic films. He appears as the drag-diva persona Chi Chi LaRue, and has also been credited as director under the names "Lawrence David" and "Taylor Hudson".
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] Andrew Chi-Fai CHAN (1977) - Head of Shaw College (2010–present) ; Kin-Man CHAN (1983) - associate professor, one of the founders of Occupy Central ; Norman Tak-Lam CHAN (1976)  – chief  executive of the Hong Kong Monetary Authority (2009–present) ; Pamela Wong-Shui CHAN (1968) – chief executive of the Hong Kong Consumer Council (1985–2007) ; Victor Wai-Kwong CHAN (1983) - former Head of Chung Chi College (2014-2015) ; Yiu-Nam CHAN (1962) - former professor of Chinese Language and Literature ; Yuk-Shee CHAN (1975) - former President of Lingnan University (2007-2012) ; Man-Yee CHEUNG (1968) - former Director of Broadcasting in Hong
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP]  Ruth Hubbard Cousins (born May 21, 1920) was one of the society's most famous executive directors, serving for more than 33 years (December 1958 – October 1991). She died on January 11, 2007.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] Chang Tso-chi  Chang Tso-chi (; born 26 December 1961) is a Taiwanese film director. His 2002 film "The Best Of Times" was entered into the 59th Venice International Film Festival. His films won Golden Horse Award for Best Feature Film two times, for "The Best of Times" (2002) and "" (2010).  Chang was arrested and charged with rape in Taiwan in May 2013. He was found guilty in June 2014, was sentenced to 3 years and 10 months in prison. He was released on parole on August 17, 2017. He served a total of 2 years, 4 months and 7 days in prison.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] The Chi  The Chi ( ) is an American drama television series created by Lena Waithe about life in a neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago. The pilot was directed by Rick Famuyiwa.
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] Destin Daniel Cretton  Destin Daniel Cretton is an American filmmaker. He is best known for his films "Short Term 12" (2013), "The Glass Castle" (2017), "Just Mercy" (2019) and the Marvel Studios film "Shang-Chi and the Legend of the Ten Rings" (2021). He has also been tapped to direct Marvel Studios' "" (2025).
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] Chi Chi LaRue  Larry David Paciotti (born November 8, 1959) is an American director of pornographic films. He appears as the drag-diva persona Chi Chi LaRue (), and has been credited as director under the names "Lawrence David" and "Taylor Hudson".
Who was the director of Chi? [SEP] Lena Waithe  Lena Waithe (born May 17, 1984) is an American actress, producer, and screenwriter. She is the creator of the Showtime drama series "The Chi" (2018–present) and the BET comedy series "Boomerang" (2019–20) and "Twenties" (2020–present). She also wrote and produced the crime film "Queen & Slim" (2020) and is the executive producer of the horror anthology series "Them" (2021–present).  Waithe gained recognition for her role in the Netflix comedy-drama series "Master of None" (2015–present) and became the first African-American woman to win the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series in 2017 for writing the show's "Thanksgiving" episode, which was loosely based on her personal experience of coming out to her mother. She has also appeared in Steven Spielberg's 2018 adventure film "Ready Player One" and the HBO series "Westworld".  Waithe was included in "Time" magazine's "100 Most Influential People of 2018" and on Fast Company's Queer 50 list in 2021 and 2022.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]  The Happy Family is a 1952 British comedy film directed by Muriel Box and starring Stanley Holloway, Kathleen Harrison and Naunton Wayne. The plot of the film centres on resistance by a family to the disruption caused by the construction of the Festival of Britain. It is also known in the U.S. by the alternative title Mr. Lord Says No. It was an adaptation of a play The Happy Family by Michael Clayton Hutton.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]  Happy Family is a 2010 Italian comedy film directed by Gabriele Salvatores. It was inspired by Luigi Pirandello's Six Characters in Search of an Author. The film won the Best Editing award at the 2010 Nastro d'Argento ceremony.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]  Come On, Get Happy: The Partridge Family Story is a 1999 American made-for-television biographical film about the 1970–1974 television series The Partridge Family, focusing on star David Cassidy and co-star Danny Bonaduce through the four years the show was on. Directed by David Burton Morris and written by Jacqueline Feather, the 90-minute film premiered on November 13, 1999 at 8:00pm on ABC.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]  Monster Family (also known as Happy Family) is a 2017 computer animated horror comedy film directed and produced by Holger Tappe, and co-written by David Safier. It is based on David Safier's children's book Happy Family. The film stars Emily Watson, Nick Frost, Jessica Brown Findlay, Celia Imrie, Catherine Tate, and Jason Isaacs. The film was both a critical and financial failure: it was unanimously panned by critics, who criticized its voice acting, animation, writing and humor. It was also a box office bomb, only grossing $26.4 million against a $30 million budget. A sequel, Monster Family 2, was released in 2021.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]  Garry Kent Marshall (November 13, 1934 – July 19, 2016) was an American screenwriter, actor, film director and producer. He started his career in the 1960s writing for I Love Lucy, and The Dick Van Dyke Show before he developed Neil Simon's 1965 play The Odd Couple for television in 1970. He gained fame for creating Happy Days (1974-1984), Laverne and Shirley (1976-1983), and Mork and Mindy (1978-1982). He is also known for directing Overboard (1987), Beaches (1988), Pretty Woman (1990), Runaway Bride (1999) and the family films The Princess Diaries (2001), and The Princess Diaries 2: Royal Engagement (2004). He also directed the romantic comedy ensemble films Valentine's Day (2010), New Year's Eve (2011), Mother's Day (2016).
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP] My Happy Family  My Happy Family (Georgian ჩემი ბედნიერი ოჯახი) is a 2017 Georgian drama film directed by Nana Ekvtimishvili and Simon Groß. It was screened in the World Cinema Dramatic Competition section of the 2017 Sundance Film Festival and had its world premiere in the Forum section at the 67th Berlin International Film Festival. Ekvtimishvili and Groß were awarded Best Director at the Sofia International Film Festival, where their film was entered in the International Competition section.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP] Happy Family (2002 film)  Happy Family is a 2002 Hong Kong romantic comedy film directed by Herman Yau and starring Nick Cheung, Candy Lo and Kenny Bee.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP] Happy Valley (TV series)  Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series filmed and set in the Calder Valley, West Yorkshire, in Northern England. The series, starring Sarah Lancashire and Siobhan Finneran, is written and created by Sally Wainwright, and directed by Wainwright, Euros Lyn, and Tim Fywell. The first series debuted on BBC One on 29 April 2014, the second series debuted on 9 February 2016, and the third series will debut on 1 January 2023. In May 2015, "Happy Valley" won the BAFTA Award for Best Drama Series.
Who was the director of The Happy Family? [SEP] Happy Camp (TV series)  Happy Camp was a Chinese variety show produced by Hunan Broadcasting System. The series debuted on 7 July 1997, and was off air on 25 September 2021. The show was hosted by the Happy Family: He Jiong, Li Weijia, Xie Na, Du Haitao and Wu Xin.  Happy Camp was one of China's most popular shows, consistently achieving record high ratings and viewership in its episodes, with a minimum active viewership of tens of millions. The show was broadcast every Saturday, with each of its episodes featuring celebrities and famous figures from all over the world, including musicians, singers, actors, sports players and more. Guests and hosts of the show participated in various activities which include performances, games, interviews, parodies and more.  Because of its tremendous popularity and success, Happy Camp won many awards across Asia and received several international recognitions, while serving as a stage opportunity for many celebrities to showcase their talents or to promote themselves. As the show became so well known, many singers and actors advertised their productions and works, including movies, books and music, on the show. Over the years, the "Happy Camp Family" has produced numerous music albums and movies.  After the last episode was broadcast on 25 September 2021, the official Weibo account of "Happy Camp" announced that a new variety show, "Hello Saturday", will take its place, marking the end of its 24-year run.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP]  The Only Woman is a 1924 American silent drama film produced by Joseph M. Schenck for Norma Talmadge Productions and distributed by First National. It was directed by Sidney Olcott with Norma Talmadge as the leading woman.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP]  by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. They also directed International Sweethearts of Rhythm (1986), about African American women musicians performing in the 1930s to 1940s; Tiny & Ruby: Hell Divin' Women (1988), and Paris Was a Woman (1996). Paris Was a Woman, about creative lesbians in 1920s Paris, was a labor of love for the two filmmakers, taking 5 years to produce and breaking house records. Schiller directed Maxine Sullivan: Love to Be In Love (1990), Woman of the Wolf (1994),  The Man Who Drove With Mandela (1998), I Live At Ground Zero (2002), and The Marion Lake Story: Defeating the Mighty Phragmite (2014). She produced and directed No Dinosaurs in Heaven (2010), about the problem of creationists infiltrating science education.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP]  director: Sarah Polley ; 2006 Marie Antoinette, starring Kirsten Dunst; director: Sofia Coppola ; 2007 Feminine, Masculine (2007), director: Sadaf Foroughi ; 2007 Across the Universe; director: Julie Taymor ; 2007 The Savages; director: Tamara Jenkins ; 2007 Never Forever; director: Gina Kim ; 2008 Frozen River; director: Courtney Hunt ; 2008 The Headless Woman; director: Lucrecia Martel ; 2008 The Beaches of Agnes; director: Agnes Varda ; 2008 Wendy and Lucy; director: Kelly Reichardt ; 2009 The Hurt Locker; director: Kathryn Bigelow The first female to win an Oscar for direction. ; 2009 Bright Star; director: Jane Campion ; 2009 Fish Tank; director: Andrea Arnold ; 2009 White Material; director: Claire Denis
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP]  As a television director, her credits include Dynasty, Emerald Point N.A.S., Trapper John, M.D., Fame, Falcon Crest, Homefront, Dr. Quinn, Medicine Woman, Babylon 5, Northern Exposure, Lois & Clark: The New Adventures of Superman, Picket Fences and The Sopranos. She is the only woman who ever directed any episode of "The Sopranos." From 1978 to 1982, she was an assistant director on a few television films and the series Knots Landing, making her head directorial debut on that series. From 1996 to 2005, she directed a number of television films, beginning with Our Son, the Matchmaker. In 2006, she released her first theatrical film Paradise, Texas. The following year, she released the film Americanizing Shelley, her last credit to date.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP]  In 1983, Debra Zimmerman became the executive director of WMM.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP] Golden Globe Award for Best Director  The Golden Globe Award for Best Director – Motion Picture is a Golden Globe Award that has been presented annually by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, an organization composed of journalists who cover the United States film industry for publications based outside North America, since 1943.  Having won all four of his nominations, Elia Kazan has been honored most often in this category. Clint Eastwood, Miloš Forman, David Lean, Martin Scorsese, and Oliver Stone tie for second place with three wins each. Steven Spielberg has had the most nominations (thirteen) and has received the award twice. Barbra Streisand, Chloé Zhao and Jane Campion are the three only women to have won the award.  In the following lists, the first names, listed in bold type against a blue background, are the winners, and the following names are the remaining nominees. The years given are those in which the films under consideration were released, not the year of the ceremony, which takes place in January of the following year.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP] Jane Campion  Dame Elizabeth Jane Campion (born 30 April 1954) is a New Zealand filmmaker. She is best known for writing and directing the critically acclaimed films "The Piano" (1993) and "The Power of the Dog" (2021), for which she has received a total of two Academy Awards (including Best Director for the latter), two BAFTA Awards, and two Golden Globe Awards. Campion was appointed a Dame Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit (DNZM) in the 2016 New Year Honours, for services to film.  Campion is known as a groundbreaking female director and is currently the only woman to be nominated twice for Academy Award for Best Director (winning once), and is the first female filmmaker to receive the Palme d'Or (for "The Piano", which also won her the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay). She also made history at the 94th Academy Awards when she won Best Director for "The Power of the Dog" (2021), making her the oldest female director to win, the first woman to win Academy Awards for both directing and screenwriting in her different films, and the first woman not to win Best Picture after winning Best Director. She broke the same barrier at the 78th Venice International Film Festival when she won the Silver Lion award. She is the third woman to win the Directors Guild of America Award for Feature Film.   Campion is also known for directing the films "An Angel at My Table" (1990), "The Portrait of a Lady" (1996), "Holy Smoke!" (1998), and "Bright Star" (2009). She also co-created the television series "Top of the Lake" (2013) and received three Primetime Emmy Award nominations.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP] Dorothy Arzner  Dorothy Emma Arzner Additionally, she was one of a very few women able to establish a successful and long career in Hollywood as a film director until the 1970s. Arzner made a total of twenty films between 1927 and 1943 and launched the careers of a number of Hollywood actresses, including Katharine Hepburn, Rosalind Russell, and Lucille Ball. Additionally, Arzner was the first woman to join the Directors Guild of America and the first woman to direct a sound film.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP] Kathryn Bigelow  Kathryn Ann Bigelow (; born November 27, 1951) is an American filmmaker. Covering a wide range of genres, her films include "Near Dark" (1987), "Point Break" (1991), "Strange Days" (1995), "" (2002), "The Hurt Locker" (2008), "Zero Dark Thirty" (2012), and "Detroit" (2017).  Bigelow was the first woman to win the Academy Award for Best Director with "The Hurt Locker", the Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directing, and the BAFTA Award for Best Direction. She was also the first woman to win the Saturn Award for Best Director, with "Strange Days".  In addition, "Time" magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010.
Who was the director of The Only Woman? [SEP] Only Girl (In the World)  "Only Girl (In the World)" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna from her fifth album, "Loud" (2010). Serving as the album's lead single, it was released on September 10, 2010. Crystal Johnson wrote the song in collaboration with producers Stargate and Sandy Vee. Rihanna contacted Stargate before "Loud" production and asked them to create lively, uptempo music. "Only Girl (In the World)" was the first song composed for the album, and the singer decided to include it on the track list before she recorded her vocals. Backed by strong bass and synthesizer, it is a dance-pop and Eurodance song that has an electronic composition. Its lyrics describe Rihanna demanding physical attention from her lover.  Critical response to "Only Girl (In the World)" was positive; a number of critics praised its composition and Rihanna's decision to move away from the dark themes of her previous album, "Rated R" (2009). The song reached number one on the United States' "Billboard" Hot 100 chart two weeks after "Loud" second single, "What's My Name?", peaked at number one. It was the first time in the chart's history that an album's lead single reached number one after its second single. In the United Kingdom the song spent two weeks at number one and is the 19th-bestselling single of all time by a female artist, with over a million copies sold. The song peaked at number one in Australia, Austria, New Zealand, Canada and Ireland, and reached the top five in France, Germany and Switzerland.  Rihanna performed "Only Girl (In the World)" on "Saturday Night Live" in the United States, "The X Factor" in the United Kingdom and a shortened version at the 31st Brit Awards. Anthony Mandler directed the song's music video, in which Rihanna is alone in an open natural landscape. The video suggests that she is the only female in the world, echoing the song's title and lyrics, and critics praised its bright, colorful theme. "Only Girl (In the World)" won the Grammy Award for Best Dance/Electronic Recording at the 53rd Annual Grammy Awards in 2011.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]  The Gamblers is a 1970 American drama film directed by Ron Winston and starring Suzy Kendall, Don Gordon and Pierre Olaf. Its plot involves a confidence trickster who goes for a trip of a luxury cruise liner, where he is himself conned out of his money. It is loosely based on Fyodor Dostoyevsky's 1866 novel The Gambler. Its alternative title was Kockari.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]  The Gambler is a 1974 American crime drama film written by James Toback and directed by Karel Reisz. It stars James Caan, Paul Sorvino and Lauren Hutton. Caan's performance was widely lauded and was nominated for a Golden Globe.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]  The Gamble (originally titled La partita) is a 1988 Italian comedy film directed by Carlo Vanzina. It was shot in Rome and Venice. The film is based on the novel with the same name written by Alberto Ongaro. It was generally panned by critics.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]  In August 2011, Paramount Pictures announced a remake of the 1974 film The Gambler with the original producers, Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff. Intended as a new directorial project for Martin Scorsese, it was reported that Leonardo DiCaprio was attached as the star and William Monahan would write the screenplay. In a 2011 interview, screenwriter James Toback gave the story of the original film's autobiographical background and development, and criticized the announcement of the remake. Scorsese left the project and filmmaker Todd Phillips was in talks to take over as of August 2012. In September 2013, Mark Wahlberg and director Rupert Wyatt expressed interest in remaking the film. The film was released on December 25, 2014.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]  Eleanor Acheson McCulloch Gamble (March 2, 1868 – August 30, 1933) was an influential American psychologist from the late 19th century through the early 20th century. Gamble published most of her work on audition and memory influenced by Georg Elias Müller, Edward B. Titchener, Mary Whiton Calkins, and Ernst Heinrich Weber. Despite her chronic eye conditions she was successful in editing volumes of textbooks, her own papers, and directing many master's degree students. She earned her undergraduate degree from Wellesley College in 1889. She went on to obtain her doctorate from Cornell University in 1898. She held several teaching positions over the course of her career and was a member of several influential organizations including the American Psychological Association (APA). Gamble was a distinguished and well-liked professor at Wellesley College for more than two decades, and by 1930 she was the head of the Department of Philosophy and Psychology following the death of Mary Whiton Calkins. At the time of her death she was professor of psychology and director of the psychological laboratory at Wellesley College.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP] National Economic Council (United States)  The National Economic Council (NEC) is the principal forum used by the president of the United States for the consideration of domestic and international economic policy matters with senior policymaking and Cabinet officials, and forms part of the Office of Policy Development which is within the Executive Office of the President of the United States.   Since the creation of the National Economic Council on January 25, 1993, its purpose is to coordinate domestic and international economic policy-making decisions; to advise the president on economic policy, with respect to domestic and international economic policy matters; to coordinate with various agencies across the federal government to establish consistent policy with the president's stated goals; and monitor the implementation of the economic agenda of the president.   The National Economic Council differs from the Domestic Policy Council, as it considers economic policy matters, while the Domestic Policy Council may consider anything which is related to domestic matters, with the exception of economic policy matters. It also differs from the Council of Economic Advisers, which provides research for the White House based on data, research, and evidence. The Council is also the principal arm of the president when coordinating his economic policies and goals among various other agencies.  The National Economic Council is headed by the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director of the National Economic Council. Since January 20, 2021, that position has been held by Brian Deese.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP] Estelle v. Gamble  Estelle v. Gamble, 429 U.S. 97 (1976), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States established the standard of what a prisoner must plead in order to claim a violation of Eighth Amendment rights under 42 U.S.C. § 1983. Specifically, the Court held that a prisoner must allege acts or omissions sufficiently harmful to evidence deliberate indifference to serious medical needs. Though the Court credited Gamble's complaint that doctors had failed to provide appropriate care, it held that medical malpractice did not rise to the level of "cruel and unusual punishment" simply because the victim is a prisoner.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP] You (TV series)  You is an American psychological thriller television series based on the books by Caroline Kepnes, developed by Greg Berlanti and Sera Gamble, and produced by Berlanti Productions, Alloy Entertainment, and A+E Studios in association with Warner Horizon Television, now Warner Bros. Television.  The first season, which is based on the novel "You", premiered on Lifetime in September 2018, and follows Joe Goldberg, a bookstore manager and serial killer who falls in love and develops an extreme obsession. The season stars Penn Badgley, Elizabeth Lail, Luca Padovan, Zach Cherry, and Shay Mitchell. Lifetime announced in July 2018 that "You" had been renewed for a second season, based on Kepnes' follow-up novel "Hidden Bodies". The series later moved to Netflix and the second season was released in December 2019. The season follows Joe as he moves to Los Angeles and falls in love with local heiress Love Quinn. For the second season, Ambyr Childers was upgraded to a series regular, joining newly cast Victoria Pedretti, James Scully, Jenna Ortega, and Carmela Zumbado.  In January 2020, the series was renewed for a third season by Netflix, which was released on October 15, 2021. In the third season, Saffron Burrows was upgraded to a series regular, joining newly cast Travis Van Winkle, Shalita Grant, Tati Gabrielle, and Dylan Arnold. In October 2021, ahead of the third season premiere, the series was renewed for a fourth season. The first part of the fourth season is scheduled to premiere on February 9, 2023, with the second part scheduled for release on March 9.
Who was the director of The Gamble? [SEP] Allen O. Gamble  Allen Owen Gamble (8 February 1910 – 24 April 2001) was an American industrial psychologist. As the associate director of personnel for manpower at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), he oversaw that organization's expansion from 8,000 in the late 1950s to 40,000 in the early 1960s. His activities also included the selection of the Mercury Seven astronauts.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]  Savage was named the executive director for the Senior Bowl in May 2012 where he served until May 2018. During that time he worked as the color analysis for the Crimson Tide Sports Network.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]  young filmmakers from the UCLA and University of Southern California film schools to spend the 1999/2000 school year filming. After 9 months, production was completed on graduation day in June 2000, and the result was Senior Year, a 13-part series, which was first broadcast in the U.S. on PBS in January 2002. It was also shown in Europe on Planète+ and was a premiere series on the U.S. English/Spanish cable network Sí TV in 2004. Entertainment Weekly commented, "Others have tried to document high school life, but this 13-part series succeeds where those drier efforts failed. High school is a time for experimentation, and finally, a truly experimental filmmaker is there."
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]  The Hugh T. Pendleton award of excellence continues to be awarded at the annual end-of-year awards ceremonies, given by the faculty to the most outstanding senior. Pendleton was succeeded by then-middle school principal C. Benjamin Arthur, who held the job from 1997 until his retirement in 2002. E. Denton Sisk replaced Arthur in 2002 after serving as an assistant principal, and the school's next principal, Clayton F. Stanley, took over from him in 2011, serving until 2017. Among his other previous positions, Stanley was a teacher and assistant football coach at RHS during the 1990s. Clayton Stanley was promoted to Director of Personnel in 2017, and Amy Hale took over. Amy Hale was an assistant principal at Rustburg before taking the role as Principal.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]  The Senior Chorus consisted of every pupil from Fourth Form to Upper Sixth; they performed choral works at some events throughout the year. The last performance of the Senior Chorus was at the 2014 Easter Concert, after which it was dissolved. The Chorus' duties have since been taken over by the smaller Senior Choir. This tradition had been established over many years. When Henry Willis was Director of Music at Methody from 1957–66, large scale choral works were undertaken by the Senior School, which continued under William McCay. Dr Joe McKee OBE was Director of Music from 1991 to 2002, and he arranged for the Senior Chorus to sing in public performances outside the College. With the Director of Music, Ruth McCartney MBE, the Senior Chorus learned one large-scale choral work each year, starting
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]  In 2010, as Senior Year was being made, the ABS CBN News Channel tapped Tarog to be part of AmBisyon 2010, a series in which directors would use short films to narratively present the various problems that would face whoever won the Presidency in the Philippine Presidential Election of 2010. Tarog's entry, covering the area of "education", was the short film "Faculty", subtitled "A prequel to Senior Year." The Ms. Joan character from Senior Year makes her first appearance in this short, which explains why the character, who used to be a College teacher, had become a high school teacher by the time she was shown in Senior Year. Faculty became a viral hit on various social networks, and the popularity of the short film became part of the marketing for its longer, more fleshed-out sequel.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP] Senior Year (2022 film)  Senior Year is a 2022 American comedy film directed by Alex Hardcastle (in his feature film directorial debut) from a screenplay by Andrew Knauer, Arthur Pielli, and Brandon Scott Jones. The film stars Rebel Wilson (who also produced) as a 37-year-old woman who awakens from a 20-year coma and decides to go back to high school to earn her diploma. Sam Richardson, Zoë Chao, Mary Holland, Justin Hartley, Chris Parnell, Angourie Rice, Michael Cimino, Jeremy Ray Taylor, Jones, and Alicia Silverstone also star. The film was released on May 13, 2022, by Netflix, and was the No.1 Netflix Global movie for two weeks in a row and remained in the Netflix Top 10 movie for six weeks, accumulating over 167,600,000 hours of viewership during this time.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP] High School Musical 3: Senior Year  High School Musical 3: Senior Year is a 2008 American musical film written by Peter Barsocchini and directed by Kenny Ortega. The sequel to "High School Musical 2" (2007) and the third installment of the "High School Musical" film series, the film follows Troy Bolton (Zac Efron), Gabriella Montez (Vanessa Hudgens), Sharpay Evans (Ashley Tisdale), her twin brother Ryan Evans (Lucas Grabeel), Chad Danforth (Corbin Bleu), and Taylor McKessie (Monique Coleman), who are in their final year of high school and face the daunting prospect of being separated as they go off to college. Joined by the rest of their East High classmates, they stage their last spring musical, reflecting their experiences, hopes, and fears about the future.  "High School Musical 3: Senior Year" was developed immediately following the success of its predecessor. Production returned to Utah for which Disney received a $2 million tax-break incentive, the largest the state has ever given to a film. Principal photography began in May 2008, and Walt Disney Pictures diverted a larger production and marketing budget to accommodate a theatrical release. The production returned to previous filming locations East High School and Murray High School, while additional scenes were filmed in Los Angeles.  "High School Musical 3: Senior Year" premiered in London on October 17, 2008, and was theatrically released in the United States one week later, making it the only theatrical release in the franchise. Upon release, the film proved to be a critical success, with critics noting it as an improvement over the previous two installments due to the more emotional tone and themes, as well as the higher production values. The film was also a commercial success, as it grossed over $90 million worldwide in its first three days of release, setting a new record for the largest opening weekend for a musical film. Overall, the film grossed $252 million worldwide. The film's was also successful, debuting and peaking at number two on the "Billboard" 200 in the United States. A spin-off film, "Sharpay's Fabulous Adventure" (2011), was released direct-to-video and on television.
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP]
Who was the director of Senior Year? [SEP] Senior Year (2010 film)  Senior Year is a 2010 Philippine coming-of-age film written, scored, edited and directed by Jerrold Tarog. It follows ten students of a private Catholic school in Manila, as they go through the many transitions that come with their final year in high school.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  A list of all of the Victory offices with their accompanying field director.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Victory Fund from his position as the director of the Gay & Lesbian Leadership Council at the Democratic National Committee from to rebuild the nearly-bankrupt organization. He is credited by Tammy Baldwin with helping grow the visibility and size of the organization. He stepped down in 2003. Former Victory Fund board member Chuck Wolfe was named executive director in 2003. Under his leadership, the organization's budgets grew exponentially. In 2008, 80 of the group's 111 endorsed candidates won their elections. In 2009, Victory Fund donated $40000 to the election of Annise Parker as mayor of Houston. In electing an out lesbian as its chief
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Chay Yew was named Artistic Director in 2011. In February 2012, Yew granted the original Playwrights Ensemble 'alumni' status and introduced a new ensemble of playwrights. Yew announced his departure from Victory Gardens in December 2019. On May 5, 2020, then-executive director Erica Daniels was named Victory Gardens' executive artistic director. The Playwrights Ensemble announced their collective resignation in protest on May 22, citing a lack of transparency in Victory Gardens' search for a new Artistic Director. On June 8, in response to the resulting community backlash and the ongoing George Floyd protests, Daniels stepped down from her positions as Executive Director and Executive Artistic Director. The board of directors' chairman Steve Miller also stepped down from his position, but remained on the board. The current Acting Managing Director of Victory Gardens is Roxanna Conner, and the current Board Chair is Charles E. Harris, II.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Victory Pictures Corporation was a California-based film production and distribution company that operated from 1935–39. It was owned by Sam Katzman and specialised in making low-budget movies, predominantly Westerns. It made two serials and 30 films, including some of the Western series of Bob Steele and Tim McCoy. It also made eight films based on the works of Peter B. Kyne. The studio plant caught fire in 1937, causing $50,000 worth of damage.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Twenty years later, Cromwell filmed his screen version, Victory (1940), for Paramount with Fredrick March as the recluse Hendrik Heyst and Betty Field as Alma, and Cedric Hardwicke as the pathological Mr. Jones (also serving as narrator). Cromwell’s professional relationship with March had commenced on Broadway in 1925 when he directed March in Kay Horton’s Harvest. Cromwell was dissatisfied with some of the casting in Victory, particularly with that of British actor Cedric Hardwicke : "Then [there was] Mr. Hardwicke, whom I knew—or thought I knew—pretty well. I don’t know what the hell happened to him. He just conked out on me entirely, and I felt he gave no indication what the part
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Victory Gardens Theater  Victory Gardens Theater is a theater company in Chicago, Illinois dedicated to the development and production of new plays and playwrights. The theater company was founded in 1974 when eight Chicago artists, Cecil O'Neal, Warren Casey, Stuart Gordon, Cordis Heard, Roberta Maguire, Mac McGuinnes, June Pyskaček, and David Rasche each fronted $1,000 to start a company outside the Chicago Loop and Gordon donated the light board of his Organic Theater Company. The theater's first production, "The Velvet Rose", by Stacy Myatt premiered on October 9, 1974.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] LGBTQ Victory Fund  The LGBTQ Victory Fund (formerly the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund), commonly shortened to Victory Fund, is an American political action committee dedicated to increasing the number of openly LGBTQ public officials in the United States. Victory Fund is the largest LGBTQ political action committee in the United States and one of the nation’s largest non-connected PACs.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Victory (2009 film)  Victory is a 2009 Indian cricket-based sports film starring Harman Baweja, Amrita Rao and Anupam Kher. It is Harman Baweja's second release after his debut film "Love Story 2050", which performed very badly at the box office. The movie was filmed in Australia and India. "Victory" tells the story of a struggling cricketer who defies all odds to realise an almost impossible dream.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Escape to Victory  Escape to Victory (stylized as Victory) is a 1981 American-British-Italian sports war film directed by John Huston and starring Sylvester Stallone, Michael Caine, Max von Sydow and Pelé. The film is about Allied prisoners of war who are interned in a German prison camp during the Second World War who play an exhibition match of football against a German team.  The film received great attention upon its theatrical release, as it also starred professional footballers Bobby Moore, Osvaldo Ardiles, Kazimierz Deyna, Paul Van Himst, Mike Summerbee, Hallvar Thoresen, Werner Roth and Pelé. Numerous Ipswich Town players were also in the film, including John Wark, Russell Osman, Laurie Sivell, Robin Turner and Kevin O'Callaghan. Other Ipswich Town players stood in for actors in the football scenes – Kevin Beattie for Michael Caine, and Paul Cooper for Sylvester Stallone. Yabo Yablonsky wrote the script and the film was entered into the 12th Moscow International Film Festival.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Mobile Suit Victory Gundam  , is a 1993 Japanese science fiction anime television series. It consists of 51 episodes, and was directed by Gundam creator Yoshiyuki Tomino. The series was first broadcast on TV Asahi (and its ANN stations). It is the fourth TV anime installment in the "Gundam" franchise, first series in the franchise released in Japan's Heisei period, and the final full series to be set in the Universal Century calendar.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP]  Me First (Primero yo) is a 1964 Argentine drama film directed by Fernando Ayala, and written by Héctor Olivera and Luis Pico Estrada. It was entered into the 1964 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP]  Me First is the first album by indie band The Elected, released in 2004 via Sub Pop. It is a mix between indie and country.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP]  Service), stunt coordinator David R. Ellis (Final Destination 2), and Frank Marshall, who directed second unit for Steven Spielberg whilst also working as producer, on Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Empire of the Sun, and The Color Purple. Some who became directors may return to working predominantly as second unit directors for the remainder of their career. Notable examples include Yakima Canutt (Ben-Hur, 1959) and Michael D. Moore, who worked on more than sixty films, including Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969), Patton (1970), and the first three Indiana Jones films in the 1980s. It is common for certain personnel involved with a production in another capacity to also
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP]  The current co-directors of May First/People Link are Alfredo Lopez and Jamie McClelland. Founding members and other members of MF/PL leadership are represented by organizations including The Praxis Project, NACLA, Progressive Technology Project, and The Brecht Forum.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Me (1975) ; Sugar (2004) ; The Archer (2005)
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Despicable Me (film)  Despicable Me is a 2010 American computer-animated comedy film produced by Illumination Entertainment (as its debut film) and distributed by Universal Pictures. The film was directed by Chris Renaud and Pierre Coffin (in their feature directorial debuts) and produced by Chris Meledandri, Janet Healy, and John Cohen, from a screenplay written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio, based on an original story by Sergio Pablos. The film stars the voices of Steve Carell, Jason Segel, Russell Brand, Miranda Cosgrove, Kristen Wiig, Will Arnett, and Julie Andrews. The film follows a supervillain named Gru as he formulates a plan to steal the Moon, while adopting three orphan girls.  "Despicable Me" debuted at the Annecy International Animated Film Festival on June 9, 2010, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 9, by Universal Pictures. The film received positive reviews and earned $543.2 million worldwide, becoming the ninth-highest-grossing film of 2010. It was nominated for Best Animated Feature Film at the Golden Globe Awards, BAFTA Awards and Annie Awards. "Despicable Me" is the first entry in what would become the franchise of the same name, which includes five more films—"Despicable Me 2" (2013), "Minions" (2015), "Despicable Me 3" (2017), "" (2022), and "Despicable Me 4" (2024).
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Kiss Me First (TV series)  Kiss Me First is a British cyber-thriller drama series created by Bryan Elsley for Channel 4 and Netflix. It began airing on 2 April 2018 on Channel 4 and was made available on Netflix worldwide on 29 June 2018.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Dead to Me (TV series)  Dead to Me is an American black comedy television series created by Liz Feldman and executively produced by Feldman, Will Ferrell, Adam McKay, and Jessica Elbaum. The series premiered on May 3, 2019, on Netflix and stars Christina Applegate and Linda Cardellini as two grieving women who bond during therapy. The first season received positive reviews. In June 2019, Netflix renewed the series for a second season which was released on May 8, 2020.  In July 2020, the series was renewed for a third and final season.<ref name="S3Renewal"/> Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, production of the third season was delayed until mid-2021, and was then further delayed by Applegate's multiple sclerosis diagnosis. The third and final season was released on November 17, 2022.<ref name="S3Premiere"/>  At the 72nd Primetime Emmy Awards, the show received four nominations including Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Comedy Series and two Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actress in a Comedy Series for Applegate and Cardellini.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Super Size Me  Super Size Me is a 2004 American documentary film directed by and starring Morgan Spurlock, an American independent filmmaker. Spurlock's film follows a 30-day period from February 1 to March 2, 2003, during which he ate only McDonald's food. The film documents the drastic effect on Spurlock's physical and psychological health and well-being. It also explores the fast food industry's corporate influence, including how it encourages poor nutrition for its own profit and gain.  Spurlock ate at McDonald's restaurants three times a day, eating every item on the chain's menu at least once. Spurlock consumed an average of 20.9 megajoules or 5,000 kcal (the equivalent of 9.26 Big Macs) per day during the experiment. He also walked about 2 kilometers (1.5 miles) a day. An intake of around 2,500 kcal within a healthy balanced diet is more generally recommended for a man to maintain his weight. As a result, the then-32-year-old Spurlock gained , a 13% body mass increase, increased his cholesterol to 230 mg/dL (6.0 mmol/L), and experienced mood swings, sexual dysfunction, and fat accumulation in his liver. It took Spurlock fourteen months to lose all the weight gained from his experiment using a vegan diet supervised by his then-girlfriend, a chef who specializes in gourmet vegan dishes.  The reason for Spurlock's investigation was the increasing spread of obesity throughout U.S. society, which the Surgeon General has declared an "epidemic", and the corresponding lawsuit brought against McDonald's on behalf of two overweight girls, who, it was alleged, became obese as a result of eating McDonald's food "(Pelman v. McDonald's Corp., 237 F. Supp. 2d 512)". Spurlock argued that, although the lawsuit against McDonald's failed (and subsequently many state legislatures have legislated against product liability actions against producers and distributors of "fast food") as well as the McLibel case, much of the same criticism leveled against the tobacco companies applies to fast food franchises whose product is both physiologically addictive and physically harmful.  The documentary was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature and won Best Documentary Screenplay from the Writers Guild of America. A comic book related to the movie has been made with Dark Horse Comics as the publisher containing stories based on numerous cases of fast food health scares.  Spurlock released a sequel, "", in 2017.
Who was the director of Me First? [SEP] Despicable Me  Despicable Me is a computer-animated media franchise centering on Gru, a reformed super-villain (who later becomes a father, husband, and secret agent), and his yellow-colored Minions. It is produced by Illumination and distributed by its parent company Universal Pictures.  The franchise began with the 2010 film of the same name, which was followed by two sequels, "Despicable Me 2" (2013) and "Despicable Me 3" (2017), with a future sequel, "Despicable Me 4," expected in 2024; and by two spin-off prequels, "Minions" (2015) and "" (2022). The franchise also includes many short films, a television special, several video games, and a theme park attraction. It is the highest-grossing animated film franchise and the 15th highest-grossing film franchise of all time, having grossed over $4.4 billion globally.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the series premiere of the 2009 reimagining of the 1983 miniseries V created by Kenneth Johnson. The episode's teleplay was written by Scott Peters, with story credit going to Johnson and Peters. Yves Simoneau directed the episode, which originally aired in the United States on ABC on November 3, 2009. The episode sees spaceships appear over 29 of the world's major cities. Though the alien "Visitors" claim to come in peace, it transpires that they have been infiltrating the planet for decades, and are planning on enslaving the human species. Parallels have been drawn between the Visitors and US Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, though Peters and co-producer Jeffrey Bell refute that they were intentional. Bell feels that while the original series
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  The Pilot (also known as Danger in the Skies) is a 1980 American action-drama film by director and star Cliff Robertson and is based on the novel of the same name by Robert P. Davis.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  Pilots is a 2000 Indian Malayalam-language drama film written and directed by Rajiv Anchal and produced by Menaka under Revathy Kalamandhir. Starring Suresh Gopi, Sreenivasan, and Praveena.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  of season 4 of American television series, believed to be directed by Joseph L. Scanlan. ; Riviera, 1987 ABC-TV movie intended as pilot, directed by John Frankenheimer. ; MacGyver, "Pilot", directed by Jerrold Freedman, and "The Heist", director unknown (1985). ; Moonlight, TV movie and pilot for an unsold series (1982) (not to be confused with the later CBS vampire series), directed by Jackie Cooper and Rod Holcomb. ; The Owl, 1991 television film credited to director Tom Holland when originally broadcast. Holland approved of the 46-minute television cut but disliked the extended 84-minute home video cut and credited it to "Alan Smithee".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the period drama television series The Americans. It originally aired on FX in the United States on January 30, 2013. The episode was written by series creator Joe Weisberg and directed by Gavin O'Connor. In 1981, shortly after the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings (Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell) are undercover Soviet intelligence agents from the secretive Directorate S of the KGB sent to the U.S. 15 years ago to work deep cover in Washington, D.C. Their assumed identities are a married couple who run a travel agency, and even their own children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati) do not know their secret. Reviews for the episode were largely positive. Critics commented on the lead performances of Russell, Rhys, and Noah Emmerich. In the United States, the series premiere achieved a viewership of 3.22 million.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] David Nutter  David Nutter (born 1960) is an American television and film director and television producer. He is best known for directing pilot episodes for television. In 2015, he received a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series, for his work on the HBO series "Game of Thrones".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Flight director (aeronautics)  In aviation, a flight director (FD) is a flight instrument that is overlaid on the attitude indicator that shows the pilot of an aircraft the attitude required to execute the desired flight path. Flight directors are mostly commonly used during approach and landing. They can be used with or without autopilot systems.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] The Pilot (Seinfeld)  "The Pilot" is the two-part season finale episode of season four of "Seinfeld", comprising the season's 23rd and 24th episodes (63rd and 64th episodes in the series). It first aired on May 20, 1993.  This two-part episode aired at an earlier time, 8:00 PM, to leave room for the two-hour finale of "Cheers", whose timeslot was subsequently claimed by "Seinfeld" at the start of the new fall season.   About 32 million people watched both parts of "The Pilot" when it initially aired. An additional 2 million watched the first part but not the second, and 3 million more watched the second part but not the first.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Howard Hughes  Howard Robard Hughes Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976) was an American business magnate, record-setting pilot, engineer, film producer, and philanthropist, known during his lifetime as one of the most influential and richest people in the world. He first became prominent as a film producer, and then as an important figure in the aviation industry. Later in life, he became known for his eccentric behavior and reclusive lifestyle—oddities that were caused in part by his worsening obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), chronic pain from a near-fatal plane crash, and increasing deafness.  As a film tycoon, Hughes gained fame in Hollywood beginning in the late 1920s, when he produced big-budget and often controversial films such as "The Racket" (1928), "Hell's Angels" (1930), and "Scarface" (1932). He later acquired the RKO Pictures film studio in 1948, recognized then as one of the Big Five studios of Hollywood's Golden Age, although the production company struggled under his control and ultimately ceased operations in 1957.  Through his interest in aviation and aerospace travel, Hughes formed the Hughes Aircraft Company in 1932, hiring numerous engineers, designers, and defense contractors.  During his final years, Hughes extended his financial empire to include several major businesses in Las Vegas, such as real estate, hotels, casinos, and media outlets. Known at the time as one of the most powerful men in the state of Nevada, he is largely credited with transforming Vegas into a more refined cosmopolitan city. After years of mental and physical decline, Hughes died of kidney failure in 1976. His legacy is maintained through the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Howard Hughes Corporation.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP]  Paolo Reni was an Italian art director.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP]  (1971). His film L'oro di Roma (1961) examined events around the final deportation of the Jews of Rome and the Roman roundup, grande razzia, of October 1943. For his 1968 film Bandits in Milan he won a David di Donatello award as best director and a Nastro d'Argento award for best screenplay. Lizzani worked frequently for Italian television in the 1980s and supervised the Venice International Film Festival for four editions, from 1979 to 1982. In 1994 Lizzani was a member of the jury at the Berlin Film Festival. For his 1996 film Celluloide, which deals with the making of Rome, Open City,
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP]  La renzoni is a 1916 Dutch silent drama film directed by Maurits Binger.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP]  .
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP]  Renzo Marignano (26 March 1923 - 25 November 1987), sometimes credited as Renzo Marignani, was an Italian actor and film director. Born in Genoa, after World War II Marignano was one of the founders of Cimofilm, a production company specialized in documentaries, some of which he also directed. In 1958 he moved to Rome where he started a career as character actor, appearing in a large number of films. He also was assistant director for several films by Pietro Germi and Mario Monicelli.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP] La renzoni  La renzoni is a 1916 Dutch silent drama film directed by Maurits Binger.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP] Ernst Winar  Ernst Winar (3 September 1894 – 28 June 1978) was a Dutch actor and film director. He appeared in 34 films between 1916 and 1955. He also directed 14 films between 1922 and 1955. In 1920 he published "Peccavi...???", a then-scandalous novel with a gay protagonist, co-written with fellow actor Adolphe Engers.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP] Maurits Binger  Maurits Binger (5 April 1868 – 9 April 1923) was a Dutch film director, producer and screenwriter of the silent era. He directed 39 films between 1913 and 1922 and is considered one of the pioneers of fictional films in the Netherlands. Binger's studio and base of operations was in Haarlem, North Holland. Between 1919 and 1923 he was managing director of Anglo-Hollandia an attempt to break into the larger British market. There is a film institute in the Netherlands in his name. He is sometimes referred to as Maurice Binger.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP] Paula de Waart  Paula de Waart (1 January 1876 – 2 December 1938) was a Dutch film actress of the silent era. She appeared in 24 films between 1915 and 1935.
Who was the director of La renzoni? [SEP] Conejo Formation  The Conejo Formation (, KC, Kscn) is a fossiliferous geological formation of the Altiplano Cundiboyacense, Eastern Ranges of the Colombian Andes. The uppermost unit of the Villeta Group, a sequence of shales and sandstones dates to the Late Cretaceous period; Turonian, Coniacian and Santonian epochs, and has a maximum thickness of .
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP]  the music director of RTE's The Late Late Show and The Irish Tenors. Leading international TV director, Bill Cosel, was hired to direct the TV coverage. RTÉ hired Paula Farrell, the Eurovision set designer, to design the set. Joe Canavan was hired as lighting designer. The Executive Producer for RTÉ was Peter Feeney. The RTÉ used its largest outside broadcast unit in filming this event. The event cost IR£1.4 million (or about US$2 million) to stage and also featured a spectacular light and sound extravaganza. The production was a labor of love for the three producers, McNamara, Kearns and Bennett, who between them personally contributed a substantial portion of the budget. John Kearns, a director of Messiah
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] Director of Photography: Sadegh Mianji ; Sound: Seyed Jalal Hosseini ; Set & Costume Designer: Ahmad Soleimani-Nia ; Make-up Designer: Morteza Zarrabi ; Executive Producer: Abdollah Saeedi ; Production Assistant: Saeed Kazemi ; Photographer: Saeed Sourati ; Music: Loris Tjeknavorian
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP]  Messiah  is an American thriller streaming television series created by Michael Petroni. The first season consists of ten episodes, which were released on Netflix on January 1, 2020. The series stars Mehdi Dehbi, Tomer Sisley, Michelle Monaghan, John Ortiz, Melinda Page Hamilton, Stefania LaVie Owen, Jane Adams, Sayyid El Alami, Fares Landoulsi, and Wil Traval. In March 2020, the series was canceled after one season.
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP]  Savage Messiah is a 1972 British biographical film of the life of French sculptor Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, made by Russ-Arts and distributed by MGM. It was directed and produced by Ken Russell, with Harry Benn as associate producer, from a screenplay by Christopher Logue, based on the book Savage Messiah by H. S. Ede. Much of the content of Ede's book came from letters sent between Henri Gaudier-Brzeska and his lover Sophie Brzeska. The musical score was by Michael Garrett &ndash; though music by Claude Debussy, Alexander Scriabin, and Sergei Prokofiev was also used &ndash; and the cinematography by Dick Bush. The sets were designed by Derek Jarman.
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP]  Nowrasteh directed the biblical drama The Young Messiah, which was released on 11 March 2016. The story was adapted by Cyrus and Betsy Giffen Nowrasteh from Anne Rice's Christ the Lord, and was produced by 1492 Pictures and Ocean Blue Entertainment in association with CJ E&M Film Division. The film was distributed by Focus Features. The project had a jump start in early 2013 but was shut down in preproduction and was seemingly dead. Then in late 2014, the project was resurrected thanks to the efforts of Tracy K. Price and Bill Andrew, along with Italian producer Enzo Sisti. Filmed in Matera and Rome, Italy, the plot follows Jesus Christ at age seven, when he returns to Nazareth and learns about his true place as the son of God. On 10 December 2015, Nowrasteh was interviewed on EWTN by Raymond Arroyo. Nowrasteh said of the film: "This is really a movie about a family and we take you inside the Holy Family."
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] Messiah (American TV series)  Messiah is an American thriller streaming television series created by Michael Petroni. The first season consists of ten episodes, The series stars Mehdi Dehbi, Tomer Sisley, Michelle Monaghan, John Ortiz, Melinda Page Hamilton, Stefania LaVie Owen, Jane Adams, Sayyid El Alami, Fares Landoulsi, and Wil Traval. In March 2020, the series was canceled after one season.<ref name="Cancelled"/>
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] Judas and the Black Messiah  Judas and the Black Messiah is a 2021 biographical crime drama film about the betrayal of Fred Hampton (played by Daniel Kaluuya), chairman of the Illinois chapter of the Black Panther Party in late-1960s Chicago, by William O'Neal (played by LaKeith Stanfield), an FBI informant. Jesse Plemons, Dominique Fishback, Ashton Sanders, Darrell Britt-Gibson, Lil Rel Howery, Algee Smith, Dominique Thorne, and Martin Sheen also star. The film is directed and produced by Shaka King, who wrote the screenplay with Will Berson, based on a story by the pair and Kenny and Keith Lucas.  A Fred Hampton biopic had been in the works for several years, with both the Lucas brothers and Will Berson writing and shopping screenplays individually since 2014. Berson's version almost got made with F. Gary Gray directing, but, when that fell through, King was hired to direct. The cast joined in 2019, with the blessings of Hampton's family, with filming beginning that fall in Ohio.  "Judas and the Black Messiah" premiered at the 2021 Sundance Film Festival on February 1, 2021, and was released in the United States by Warner Bros. Pictures on February 12, simultaneously in theaters and digitally on HBO Max. The film was lauded by critics, who praised King's direction, the performances (particularly Kaluuya's and Stanfield's), and its timely themes. The film earned six Oscar nominations at the 93rd Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor for both Kaluuya and Stanfield, and won Best Supporting Actor for Kaluuya and Best Original Song ("Fight for You"). For his performance, Kaluuya also won Best Supporting Actor at the Golden Globes, Critics' Choice Awards, Screen Actors Guild Awards, and BAFTA Awards.  Released in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, the film grossed $7 million worldwide against a budget of $26 million.
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] The Young Messiah  The Young Messiah is a 2016 American biblical drama film directed by Cyrus Nowrasteh and co-written by Betsy and Cyrus Nowrasteh, based on the novel "" by Anne Rice. The film stars Adam Greaves-Neal, Sean Bean, David Bradley, Lee Boardman, Jonathan Bailey, and David Burke. The film revolves around a fictional interpretation of a seven-year-old Jesus, who tries to discover the truth about his life when he returns to Nazareth from Egypt.  Nowrasteh acquired the film rights in 2011, and wrote the script along with his wife Betsy Giffen.<ref name="Time"/> Chris Columbus developed the film through his 1492 Pictures banner and helped the film financing by Ocean Blue Entertainment. FilmDistrict acquired the US distribution rights in 2013, which were later transferred to Focus Features in 2014. Filming began on September 15, 2014, in Matera and Rome, Italy.  Although the film was known throughout production as "Christ the Lord", Focus Features announced on September 1, 2015, that it would now be called "The Young Messiah". Nowrasteh said in a press release, "This new title better conveys how our film seeks to present a realistic portrait of Jesus as a child both grounded in faith and consistent with the adult Jesus revealed in the Bible."  The film was released on March 11, 2016, by Focus Features. Reviews were mixed, and the film proved to be a box office bomb, grossing only $7 million against a budget of $18.5 million.
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] The Young Messiah (musical)  The Young Messiah is a 1982 musical production of a modern adaptation of George Frideric Handel's 1741 oratorio "Messiah", It was arranged by Tom Parker, and featured vocals by Labi Siffre, Madeline Bell and Vicki Brown. A later version was produced and arranged by Frank McNamara, who also conducted the orchestra and chorus. The cast included Gladys Knight, Chaka Khan, Roger Daltrey, Jeffrey Osborne, the Irish Philharmonic Orchestra & Choir and the Visual Ministry Gospel Choir. The production included a narration, "Beware of False Prophets", which was written by Frank McGuinness and performed by Aidan Quinn. The music integrates gospel, rock and soul sounds.
Who was the director of Messiah? [SEP] Jesus (1979 film)  Jesus (also known as The Jesus Film) is a 1979 American Biblical drama film directed by Peter Sykes and John Krish, and produced by John Heyman. In "Jesus", the life of Jesus Christ is depicted, primarily using the Gospel of Luke as the main basis for the story. A voice-over narration is featured sporadically throughout the film, providing background information on characters and events.<ref name="AFI CATALOG OF FEATURE FILMS"/>  Shot on location in Israel, the film was financed primarily by Campus Crusade for Christ with a budget of $6 million, and was released without production or cast credits, as producer John Heyman declared that the creators of this picture were “simply being translators” of the New Testament's Gospel of Luke, “so nobody will know who produced or directed the film.” The end of the film states that the Good News Bible (Today's English Version) was used during filming, and instead of telling a parallel story or embellishing the Biblical account like other Biblical films, the filmmakers chose to adhere to the Gospel of Luke as closely as possible.  "Jesus" is sometimes described as the most-watched motion picture of all time, in addition to being the most translated film of all time.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP]  The Homecoming is a 1973 British-American drama film directed by Peter Hall based on the play of the same name by Harold Pinter. The film was produced by Ely Landau for the American Film Theatre, which presented thirteen film adaptations of plays in the United States from 1973 to 1975. The film was screened at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival, but was not entered into the main competition.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP]  “Homecoming” is the pilot episode of the ABC television series Miss Guided. It was the series premiere of the show, and was written by Caroline Williams and directed by Todd Holland It aired March 18, 2008.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP]  Homecoming was directed by Maryann Lombardi and it starred Lauren Weedman. This show is based on true stories from her life.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP]  Homecoming is a 2009 American independent horror-thriller film, directed by Morgan J. Freeman and written by Katie L. Fetting, Jake Goldberger and Frank Hannah. The film follows a student couple, Mike (Matt Long) and Elizabeth (Jessica Stroup), on their homecoming. Elizabeth is taken home by Mike's ex-girlfriend Shelby (Mischa Barton) after a road accident. Shelby is soon revealed to be fixated on Mike and subsequently treats Elizabeth in a cruel and deranged manner.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP]  performed at the Trafalgar Studios, London, starring John Macmillan, Keith Allen, John Simm, Gemma Chan, Ron Cook and Gary Kemp. Directed by Jamie Lloyd. Design by Soutra Gilmour. Lighting by Richard Howell. Sound by George Dennis. Others Other productions of The Homecoming have at times been listed on the home page of Pinter's official website and through its lefthand menu of links to the "Calendar" ("Worldwide Calendar"). A film with the same name was made in the UK in 1973, featuring several actors from the London premiere. The play was chosen by Lusaka Theatre Club as its entry for the 1967 Zambia Drama Festival, and was awarded prizes for best production and best actor (Norman Williams as Lenny). The director was Trevor Eastwood.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP] Spider-Man: Homecoming  Spider-Man: Homecoming is a 2017 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, co-produced by Columbia Pictures and Marvel Studios, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is the second Spider-Man film reboot and the 16th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Jon Watts, from a screenplay by the writing teams of Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley, Watts and Christopher Ford, and Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers. Tom Holland stars as Peter Parker / Spider-Man, alongside Michael Keaton, Jon Favreau, Gwyneth Paltrow, Zendaya, Donald Glover, Jacob Batalon, Laura Harrier, Tony Revolori, Bokeem Woodbine, Tyne Daly, Marisa Tomei, and Robert Downey Jr. In the film, Peter Parker tries to balance high school life with being Spider-Man while facing the Vulture (Keaton).  In February 2015, Marvel Studios and Sony reached a deal to share the film rights for Spider-Man, integrating the character into the established MCU. The following June, Holland was cast as the title character, and Watts was hired to direct. This was followed shortly by the hiring of Daley and Goldstein. In April 2016, the film's title was revealed, along with additional cast, including Downey in his MCU role of Tony Stark / Iron Man. Principal photography began in June 2016 at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia, and continued in Atlanta, Los Angeles, and New York City. The other screenwriters were revealed during filming, which concluded in Berlin in October 2016. The production team made efforts to differentiate the film from previous Spider-Man films.  "Spider-Man: Homecoming" premiered in Hollywood on June 28, 2017, and was released in the United States on July 7, as part of of the MCU. "Homecoming" grossed over $880million worldwide, becoming the second-most-successful Spider-Man film and the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2017. It received praise for the light tone, its focus on Parker's high school life, and the performances, particularly of Holland and Keaton. Two sequels have been released: "" (2019) and "" (2021). A new trilogy of live-action films from Sony and Marvel Studios is in development.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP] Homecoming (TV series)  Homecoming is an American psychological thriller television series based on the Gimlet Media podcast of the same name. Created by Eli Horowitz and Micah Bloomberg, the series premiered November 2, 2018, on Amazon Prime Video. Horowitz and Bloomberg also serve as writers and executive producers alongside Sam Esmail, Chad Hamilton, Julia Roberts, Alex Blumberg, Matt Lieber, and Chris Giliberti. Esmail also directed every episode of the first season, which stars Roberts, Bobby Cannavale, Stephan James, Shea Whigham, Alex Karpovsky, and Sissy Spacek.  The series was given an initial series order for two seasons. The second season deviates from the podcast and features a new story and characters. The second season was directed by Kyle Patrick Alvarez and stars Janelle Monáe, Chris Cooper and Joan Cusack with Stephan James and Hong Chau returning from the first season. The second season premiered on May 22, 2020.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP] All American: Homecoming  All American: Homecoming is an American sports drama television series created by Nkechi Okoro Carroll that premiered on The CW on February 21, 2022. It is a spin-off of "All American".<ref name="SeriesPickUp"/><ref name="SeriesPremiere"/> In May 2022, the series was renewed for a second season which premiered on October 10, 2022.<ref name="S2Renewal"/><ref name="S2Premiere"/>
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP] Homecoming (2019 American film)  Homecoming (stylized as HΘMΣCΘMING; subtitled: "A Film by Beyoncé") is a 2019 concert film about American singer Beyoncé and her performance at the 2018 Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, written, executive produced and directed by Beyoncé herself. It was released on April 17, 2019 by Netflix.  The film is an "intimate, in-depth look" at the performance, revealing "the emotional road from creative concept to a cultural movement".  "Homecoming" was released to widespread critical acclaim, with several publications naming it one of the greatest concert films of all time. The film won Best Music Film at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards and Best Music Documentary at the IDA Documentary Awards 2019.
Who was the director of Homecoming? [SEP] Wendy Wu: Homecoming Warrior  Wendy Wu: Homecoming Warrior is a 2006 Disney Channel Original Movie (DCOM) starring Brenda Song and Shin Koyamada. The voice of Hadley Hudson is also featured. Koyamada plays a Chinese monk who visits the title character. Wendy is an American teenager played by Song, claimed to be the reincarnation of a powerful female warrior. She is also the only person who can prevent a spirit of an ancient and evil Chinese dragon named Yan-Lo, voiced by Hudson, from destroying the world.  This film had more than 5.7 million viewers on the night of its premiere making "Wendy Wu: Homecoming Warrior" the fifth highest viewed DCOM at the time. It also received the highest rating in the history of Disney Channel Japan. The film also broke records in the United Kingdom and Europe, making Disney Channel the highest rated kids’ channel in Europe.  The film was shot almost entirely in Auckland, New Zealand. "Wendy Wu: Homecoming Warrior" was the second DCOM to be added on the iTunes Store. Disney released several products to promote the film. A sequel was scheduled to begin filming in early 2008, but was eventually cancelled.
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP]  Thank You, Madame (German title:Opernring) is a 1936 Austrian musical film directed by Carmine Gallone and starring Jan Kiepura, Friedl Czepa and Luli Deste. It is also known by the alternative title In the Sunshine (Im Sonnenschein). The film's sets were designed by Julius von Borsody.
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP]  Vieux de la vieille (directed by Gilles Grangier) - Louise, la patronne du bistrot ; 1960: L'Ours (directed by Edmond Séchan) - Madame Médard ; 1960: La Mort de Belle (directed by Edouard Molinaro) - Alice, la secrétaire du juge ; 1962: War of the Buttons (directed by Yves Robert) - Mme Lebrac ; 1963: Le Jour et l'Heure (directed by René Clément) - La caissière de la pharmacie ; 1963: Thank You, Natercia (directed by Pierre Kast) - (uncredited) ; 1963: Graduation Year (directed by José-André Lacour) - Mme cachou ; 1964: Les Yeux cernés (directed by Robert Hossein) - L'hôtelière ; 1964: Mata Hari, agent H21 (directed by
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP] Elliott Nugent - director ; Benjamin Glazer - producer ; Gladys Lehman - screenplay ; Charles Brackett - screenplay ; Nathaniel Finston - musical direction ; Travis Banton - costume design ; Theodor Sparkuhl - photography ; William C. Mellor - photography ; Ernst Fegté - art director
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP]  Moise was an actress who became a theatrical and film director. She was both an actress and director with the Jessie Bonstelle company in Detroit. In 1914, she gave a dramatic reading for the Ebell Club in Los Angeles. In 1917 she was named the first professional director of the Provincetown Players. "Tactful handling of temperaments on Nina's part pulled the whole bill through to success," recalled Edna Kenton. She directed seventeen productions, collaborating with playwrights Floyd Dell, Eugene O'Neill, Neith Boyce, and Susan Glaspell, among others, before she left the Provincetown Players in May 1918. Later in 1918, during World War I, she was head of the educational department
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP]  ; Mister Taxi (Monsieur Taxi, 1952) - Tante Louise ; A Mother's Secret (1952) - Rosa ; Crazy for Love (Le Trou normand, 1952) - Augustine Lemoine, la tante ; Companions of the Night (Les Compagnes de la nuit, 1953) - Madame Anita ; Captain Pantoufle (Capitaine Pantoufle, 1953) - Madame Cauchard ; Maternité clandestine (1953) - La tante de Jacques ; Leguignon guérisseur (1954) - Mme Leguignon ; Chiens perdus sans collier (1955) - La déléguée ; Tant qu'il y aura des femmes (1955) ; Marie Antoinette Queen of France (1956) - Mme Victoire ; Pity for the Vamps (1956) - Mme Edith ; And God Created Woman (1956) - Madame
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP] Thank You, Madame  Thank You, Madame (German title:Opernring) is a 1936 Austrian musical film directed by Carmine Gallone and starring Jan Kiepura, Friedl Czepa and Luli Deste. It is also known by the alternative title In the Sunshine (Im Sonnenschein). The film's sets were designed by Julius von Borsody.
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP] Thank You (Duran Duran album)  Thank You is the eighth studio album by English new wave band Duran Duran. It was released on 4 April 1995 by Parlophone. Consisting of cover versions, the album performed moderately on the charts, reaching number 12 on the UK Albums Chart and number 19 on the US "Billboard" 200, but received negative reviews from critics.  The title track, ("Thank You", originally by Led Zeppelin) originally appeared in an edited form (5:06) on the soundtrack to the 1994 film "With Honors". A still shorter edit (4:32) later appeared on "", a month before the full version was included on this album.
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP]
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP] Thank You, Mr. Moto (film)  Thank You, Mr. Moto is a 1937 film directed by Norman Foster. It is the second in a series of eight films starring Peter Lorre as Mr. Moto. It was based on the novel of the same name by the detective's creator, John P. Marquand. Mr. Moto battles murderous treasure hunters for priceless ancient scrolls which reveal the location of the long-lost tomb of Genghis Khan.
Who was the director of Thank You, Madame? [SEP] Thank U, Next (song)  "Thank U, Next" (stylized in all lowercase) is a song by American singer Ariana Grande. It was surprise released on November 3, 2018, through Republic Records, as the lead single from her fifth studio album of the same name (2019). Written by Grande, Tayla Parx and Victoria Monét, along with its producers Tommy Brown, Charles Anderson, and Michael Foster, "Thank U, Next" is a celebratory ode to Grande's failed relationships, following her highly publicized breakup with then-fiancé Pete Davidson. Considered a modern cultural phenomenon, the song's title and its lyrics spawned several catch phrases and online memes.  Grande originally wrote the song while engaged to Davidson, during a tumultuous point in their relationship. Several versions of the song were recorded due to the uncertainty of her relationship with Davidson at the time, as well as hesitation from Parx regarding whether Grande should list the names of her exes in the song's lyrics. Upon release, "Thank U, Next" was met with critical acclaim; critics praised its catchiness and positive message. It has been listed as one of the 100 songs that defined the 2010s decade by "Billboard", and was featured in several year-end and decade-end rankings. The song was also included in "Rolling Stone"'s 2021 revision of their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.  "Thank U, Next" was an international commercial success. It debuted atop the "Billboard" Hot 100 in the United States and spent seven weeks at the top of the chart, earning Grande her first number one single. Reaching number one in 20 other countries, "Thank U, Next" also broke numerous streaming records, including the record for the most streams received by a song in a single day for a female artist on Spotify, and the largest on-demand streaming week for a female artist ever recorded in the US. The song has been certified five-times platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  Its music video, directed by Hannah Lux Davis, was released on November 30, 2018. The music video referenced the early 2000s' cult classic films "Bring It On", "Legally Blonde", "Mean Girls" and "13 Going on 30", and featured several celebrity cameos. Following its release, it shattered many viewership records on YouTube, including the record for the most-watched music video in YouTube within 24 hours, with over 55.4 million views, and the largest YouTube Premiere at the time, with 829,000 viewers watching and participating in its live stream. The music video received widespread critical acclaim and has been noted by journalists as a pioneering release for pop culture in 2018. It was nominated for Video of the Year at the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP]  All The Way Up is a 1970 British comedy film directed by James MacTaggart based on Semi-Detached, a 1962 play by Midlands dramatist David Turner. It stars Warren Mitchell, Pat Heywood, Kenneth Cranham, Richard Briers, Adrienne Posta and Elaine Taylor. The film is rated M in New Zealand for sex scenes and sexual references.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP]  A social climbing father uses everything from poison pen letters to blackmail in order to gain promotion and wealth for his children through marriages.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] Warren Mitchell - Fred Midway ; Pat Heywood - Hilda Midway ; Elaine Taylor - Eileen Midway ; Kenneth Cranham - Tom Midway ; Vanessa Howard - Avril Hadfield ; Richard Briers - Nigel Hadfield ; Adrienne Posta - Daphne Dunmore ; Bill Fraser - Arnold Makepiece ; Terence Alexander - Bob Chickman ; Maggie Rennie - Mrs. Chickman ; Frank Thornton - Mr. Driver
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP]  Which Way is Up? is a 1977 American comedy film starring Richard Pryor and directed by Michael Schultz. It is a remake of the 1972 Italian comedy film The Seduction of Mimi. Richard Pryor plays three roles: an orange picker who has two women at the same time, the orange picker's father, and a reverend who gets the orange picker's wife pregnant.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP]  A television film based on the play starring Cranston, written by Schenkkan, and directed by Jay Roach premiered on HBO on May 21, 2016.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] All the Way Up (film)  All The Way Up is a 1970 British comedy film directed by James MacTaggart based on "Semi-Detached", a 1962 play by Midlands dramatist David Turner. It stars Warren Mitchell, Pat Heywood, Kenneth Cranham, Richard Briers, Adrienne Posta and Elaine Taylor.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] Long Way Up  Long Way Up is a British television series which debuted 18 September 2020, documenting a motorcycle journey undertaken in 2019 by Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman, from Ushuaia in Argentina through South and Central America to Los Angeles in the United States. It is a follow-up to 2004's "Long Way Round" where the pair rode from London to New York and then again in 2007 "Long Way Down", when they rode south from John o' Groats in Scotland through eighteen countries in Europe and Africa to Cape Town in South Africa.  The first three episodes of "Long Way Up" premiered globally on Apple TV+ on Friday, 18 September 2020, and eight further episodes aired weekly through to 13 November 2020.<ref name="AppleInsider 2020" />
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] All the Way Up (Fat Joe and Remy Ma song)  "All the Way Up" is a hip hop song by American rappers Fat Joe and Remy Ma, featuring American rappers French Montana and Infared. It was released on March 2, 2016 by RNG (Rap's New Generation) and EMPIRE, as the first single from their collaborative album "Plata O Plomo". The song was produced by Edsclusive and Cool & Dre and recorded at Diamond District Studios by Dwayne Shippy iLL Wayno in New York City, New York. At the 59th Grammy Awards, it was nominated for Best Rap Performance and Best Rap Song.
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] Long Way Down  Long Way Down is a television series and book documenting a motorcycle journey undertaken in 2007 by Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman, from John o' Groats in Scotland through eighteen countries in Europe and Africa to Cape Town in South Africa. It is a follow-up to the "Long Way Round" of 2004, when the pair rode east from London to New York via Eurasia and North America.  The journey started on 12 May and finished on 4 August 2007. They were accompanied by the same key team members from "Long Way Round", including cameraman and director of photography Claudio Von Planta and cameraman Jimmy Simak (who also oversaw music supervision and soundtrack production), and producers Russ Malkin and David Alexanian. They also decided to travel with medic Dai Jones, cameraman and security officer Jim Foster, and various "fixers"—local guides and interpreters. They rode the BMW R1200GS Adventure, the successor to the R1150GS Adventure bikes in "Long Way Round".  As with their previous trip, and Boorman's "Race to Dakar", Russ Malkin's company Big Earth produced the series. The television series began broadcast on BBC Two on 28 October 2007, with clips also shown online. The series was added to Apple TV+ on 18 September 2020 along with the first iteration "Long Way Round" (2004) and sequel "Long Way Up" (2020).
Who was the director of All the Way Up? [SEP] Turtles All the Way Down (film)  Turtles All the Way Down is an upcoming American romantic drama film directed by Hannah Marks and starring Isabela Merced. It is written by Isaac Aptaker and Elizabeth Berger, based on the 2017 novel of the same name by John Green.  "Turtles All the Way Down" will be the fifth film or television adaptation of a novel by Green, after "The Fault in Our Stars" (2014), "Paper Towns" (2015), "Let It Snow" (2019), and "Looking for Alaska" (2019).
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP]   Zonnetje is a 1919 Dutch silent film directed by Maurits Binger.
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP]  Carla Marja Olga Van Zon (born 20 January 1952) is a New Zealand retired artistic director. She worked on international opportunities for New Zealand artists at Creative New Zealand, before becoming artistic director of the New Zealand International Festival of the Arts in Wellington in 1996. From 2013 she was the Artistic Director of the Auckland Arts Festival, where she was responsible for commissioning works such as the opera The Bone Feeders. Van Zon has been responsible for supporting the careers of many New Zealand artists. She retired from the Auckland Arts Festival in 2017, following a diagnosis of kidney disease in 2016.
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP]  Zonnehuis, a home for children with disabilities, in Bosch in Duin. The Zonnehuis was later relocated to Zeist and, in the course of its expansion its name was changed to the Zonnehuizen Veldheim Steinia te Zeist. Lievegoed was the director of this institution from its founding until 1954. In 1932 Lievegoed helped to found the Vrije School (free Waldorf school) of Zeist. In 1939 he did a higher doctorate (promotion) with a thesis about the therapeutic use of music. In 1946 he published the first of a number of books, Ontwikkelingsfasen van het kind; this was translated into eight
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP]  Helena van der Meulen studied philosophy and film at the University of Amsterdam. During her studies, van der Meulen wrote film reviews for the Dutch film magazine Skrien. In September 1991, she was the head of publicity at the Dutch Film Museum. During an interview, director Heddy Honigmann asked van der Meulen to collaborate on her next screenplay, Tot Ziens (1995). The film was critically acclaimed and won prestigious awards. Tot Ziens’ success opened the door to van der Meulen’s screenwriting career. In the late nineties, van der Meulen was granted a stipend from the Dutch Media Fund to develop original material, including Zoenzucht (1999)
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP]  Van Zon's career in arts administration began in Creative New Zealand, where she worked to improve international opportunities for New Zealand artists. She managed New Zealand's entry to the 2009 Venice Biennale. She was involved with the New Zealand International Festival of the Arts in Wellington from 1989, and from 1996 she was Executive Director, and was appointed as Artistic Director in 2000. Van Zon helped the festival turn a profit for the first time, and during her time it won four national tourism awards and the Dominion Gold Award for outstanding contribution to the Wellington economy. From 2013 to 2017 she was
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP] B. E. Doxat-Pratt  Bernard Edwin Doxat-Pratt (born 1886 in London) was a British film director who worked for Anglo-Hollandia and Granger-Binger.<ref name=eye />
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP] Adelqui Migliar  Adelqui Migliar (5 August 1891 – 6 August 1956), also known as Adelqui Millar, was a Chilean film actor, director, writer and producer. He appeared in 31 silent films between 1916 and 1928. He also directed 24 films between 1922 and 1954. He was born in Concepción, Chile, and lived and worked in the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. He died in Santiago, Chile.
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP] Maurits Binger  Maurits Binger (5 April 1868 – 9 April 1923) was a Dutch film director, producer and screenwriter of the silent era. He directed 39 films between 1913 and 1922 and is considered one of the pioneers of fictional films in the Netherlands. Binger's studio and base of operations was in Haarlem, North Holland. Between 1919 and 1923 he was managing director of Anglo-Hollandia an attempt to break into the larger British market. There is a film institute in the Netherlands in his name. He is sometimes referred to as Maurice Binger.
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP] Liane den Haan  Natalia Liane den Haan (born 24 August 1967) is a Dutch politician and former nonprofit director, who has been a member of the House of Representatives since 2021.  She was the managing director of LGBT rights organization COC Nederland from 2001 to 2004 and subsequently filled that same position at senior advocacy group ANBO. Den Haan left the latter organization after she had been chosen in October 2020 to lead the pensioners' party 50PLUS in the 2021 general election. She succeeded Henk Krol and was elected to the House of Representatives. Following an internal conflict within 50PLUS, she left the party in May 2021 while keeping her seat. Den Haan founded her own party, Goud Nederland (Gold Netherlands), the following year.  Den Haan has also held a seat in the Social and Economic Council (SER) and in the Woerden municipal council for four years as a member of Democrats 66 and the Labour Party.
Who was the director of Zonnetje? [SEP] Steve Rutter (footballer, born 1962)  Stephen L. "Steve" Rutter (born 14 October 1962) is an English former football player and current assistant manager at GSL club Panetolikos.
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  an administrative staff that included Executive Dean Dr. Stuart McComb who had been Superintendent of the Pico Rivera School District, Dean of Instruction Dr. Gerhard Ehmann who had been president of Glendale Community College, Finance Officer Jack Lyons from the San Francisco State College Foundation, Dean of Students Dr. Earnest A. Becker from Pasadena City College, and Librarian Dr. Earnest Toy, Jr. from Riverside City College. At the time the state colleges in California were under the nominal control of the California state department of education and the Superintendent of Public Instruction. However, in practice, the individual state colleges enjoyed a considerable degree of
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  John Eaton was the college's initial president; he served from 1967 to 1983. William M. Anderson was the college's second president, serving from 1983 to 1998. Afterward in 2001, Governor John Engler appointed Anderson the founding director of the Michigan Department of History, Arts and Libraries. Governor Jennifer Granholm reappointed Dr. Anderson to her cabinet, where he continued to serve as the director of HAL until 2009. Charles T. Dillon served as West Shore Community College's third president from 1998 to 2014. He was succeeded by Kenneth Urban (2015–2017).
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  After graduation, he became an assistant to Pomona president James Blaisdell. When the Claremont Colleges were established in 1925, he was appointed secretary under Blaisdell. He became administrative director in 1942; his title changed to managing director in 1944 and president in 1959.
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  Aybar served as director of the state of Florida's Latin American and Caribbean Basin Scholarship Program. He subsequently worked at the James F. Byrnes International Center at the University of South Carolina. Later, at Colorado Mountain College (CMC), he served as dean of the Vail/Eagle Valley campus. In addition to his administrative work at CMC, he led a great books discussion group for local residents. Aybar joined the administration of the City Colleges of Chicago in 2003, after completing his contract at CMC. From late 2003 to 2009, he served as Associate Vice Chancellor for Arts and Sciences. In this capacity he became the first in the City Colleges system to receive the "Administrator of the Year" award in 2004. Aybar was appointed president of Daley College in August 2009,
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  Geoffrey Hubbard was appointed as Director in June 1969. He was previously an engineer and then a civil servant at the Ministry of Technology. He successfully steered the Council through its sometimes difficult relationship with government. He retired in 1986 but continued his role as Chairman of the National Extension College.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Daniels (directors)  Daniel Kwan () and Daniel Scheinert, known collectively as Daniels, are a duo of film directors and screenwriters. They began their career as directors of music videos, including the popular DJ Snake & Lil Jon music video for the single "Turn Down for What" (2013). They have since ventured into film, having written and directed the surreal comedy-drama "Swiss Army Man" (2016) and the science-fiction action comedy "Everything Everywhere All at Once" (2022). The latter became A24's highest-grossing film of all time.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Residence hall director  A Residence Hall Director is college or university employee generally responsible for the management and daily operations of campus residence halls. While the term Residence Hall Director is the common title used for this position in the United States, they are also known at different schools as Area Coordinators (ACs), Area Directors (ADs), Hall Coordinators (HCs), Community Directors (CDs), Hall Directors (HDs), Resident or Residence Directors (RDs), Resident Deans (RDs), Residence Hall Coordinators (RHCs), or Residence Life Coordinators (RLCs). While different titles are used by different colleges and universities, the positions generally have similar job requirements, dependent upon the size of the institution and scope of the position's overarching department.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Chancellor (education)  A chancellor is a leader of a college or university, usually either the executive or ceremonial head of the university or of a university campus within a university system.  In most Commonwealth and former Commonwealth nations, the chancellor is usually a ceremonial non-resident head of the university. In such institutions, the chief executive of a university is the vice-chancellor, who may carry an additional title such as "president" (e.g. "president & vice-chancellor"). The chancellor may serve as chairperson of the governing body; if not, this duty is often held by a chairperson who may be known as a pro-chancellor.  In many countries, the administrative and educational head of the university is known as the president, principal or rector. In the United States, the head of a university is most commonly a university president. In U.S., university systems that have more than one affiliated university or campus, the executive head of a specific campus may have the title of chancellor and report to the overall system's president, or vice versa.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Matt Groh  Matthew "Matt" Groh (born 1981) is an American football executive who is the director of player personnel for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). Groh began his NFL career as a scouting assistant with the Patriots before working as a scout and executive since 2011.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Sports information director  A sports information director is a type of public relations worker who provides statistics, team and player notes and other information about a college or university's sports teams to the news media and general public. Abbreviated "SID," sports information directors often have varying titles, such as media relations director, director of athletics communications, and communications director.  SIDs are generally responsible for a number of external publicity efforts by an athletics department. This ranges from updating and maintaining the content on the school's athletics website and social media accounts to statistics management to historical records keeping. SIDs also are often responsible for the production of official publications, most notably media guides, game notes and game programs. Media guides are used both as a resource for the news media and as a recruiting piece for the individual teams.  The College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) provides an organizational structure for SIDs at all collegiate levels in the United States and Canada. The organization has named Academic All-Americans since 1952. CoSIDA also provides career resources for potential SIDs such as job postings and résumé exchanges.  Some schools offer academic programming aimed at training future sports information directors. Duquesne University, for example, offers a major and a minor in "Sports Information and Media."
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP]  Practical Jokers is a 1938 Our Gang short comedy film directed by George Sidney. It was the 174th Our Gang short (175th episode, 86th talking short, 87th talking episode, and sixth MGM produced episode) that was released.
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP] Darla Hood as Darla ; Eugene Lee as Porky ; George McFarland as Spanky ; Carl Switzer as Alfalfa ; Billie Thomas as Buckwheat
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP]  "The Practical Joker" is the third episode of the second season of the American animated science fiction television series Star Trek, the 19th episode overall. It first aired in the NBC Saturday morning lineup on September 21, 1974, and was written by American television writers Chuck Menville and Len Janson who together also wrote the first season episode "Once Upon a Planet". The "Rec Room" in this episode is the forerunner of the Holodeck, which plays a significant part in numerous episodes of the subsequent spin-off Star Trek series. Set in the 23rd century, the series follows the adventures of Captain James T. Kirk (voiced by William Shatner) and the crew of the Starfleet starship Enterprise. In this episode, after the Enterprise passes through an unusual cloud the ship's computer starts playing practical jokes on the crew.
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP]  practical joker working in the fictional town of Andreas. Jonathan Wheats (Weaving) and his wife, Beth (Byrnes), a kindergarten teacher, host a party involving their friends Margaret and Michael. As a gift, Michael gives Jonathan and Beth two tickets to La Bohème. The next night, while Jonathan is at the opera house, Beth, forgetting about the show as she was supposed to meet Jonathan at the opera house immediately after work, comes home to find the house trashed. She finds a burglar stealing a set of silver Georgian cutlery and trying to escape, and he pursues her with a knife. In defense, Beth fires a
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP]  TruTV and Built Games developed a mobile game called Impractical Jokers: Wheel of Doom, released in 2018. Wilder Games developed a party game series including Impractical Jokers: Box of Challenges and Impractical Jokers: Ultimate Challenge Pack that were released in 2020. The Official Practical Jokers Podcast started in 2017, hosted by producers Casey Jost and James McCarthy. Episodes are usually released the day after new episodes have broadcast. Assistant director and producer Chá DeBerry joined the podcast as a host in 2021.
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP] Impractical Jokers  Impractical Jokers is an American hidden camera reality show with improvisational elements. Produced by NorthSouth Productions, "Impractical Jokers" premiered on truTV on December 15, 2011 starring the members of The Tenderloins: James "Murr" Murray, Brian "Q" Quinn, Sal Vulcano, and Joe Gatto (until his departure partway through season nine after 17 episodes into the season). It also occasionally airs on TBS.   "Impractical Jokers" ninth season premiered on February 4, 2021. The series has been renewed for a 26-episode tenth season featuring a rotating group of guest comedians instead of Gatto. began production in April 2018 and was theatrically released on February 21, 2020.
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP] The Practical Joker  "The Practical Joker" is the third episode of the second season of the American animated science fiction television series "", the 19th episode overall. It first aired in the NBC Saturday morning lineup on September 21, 1974, and was written by American television writers Chuck Menville and Len Janson who together also wrote the episode "Once Upon a Planet". The "Rec Room" in this episode is the forerunner of the Holodeck, which plays a significant part in numerous episodes of the subsequent spin-off "Star Trek" series.  Set in the 23rd century, the series follows the adventures of Captain James T. Kirk (voiced by William Shatner) and the crew of the Starfleet starship "Enterprise". In this episode, after the "Enterprise" passes through an unusual cloud the ship's computer starts playing practical jokes on the crew.
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP]
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP] Practical joke  A practical joke, or prank, is a mischievous trick played on someone, generally causing the victim to experience embarrassment, perplexity, confusion, or discomfort. A person who performs a practical joke is called a "practical joker" or "prankster".<ref name="dictionary.reference.com" /> Other terms for practical jokes include gag, rib, jape, or shenanigan.  Practical jokes differ from confidence tricks or hoaxes in that the victim finds out, or is let in on the joke, rather than being talked into handing over money or other valuables. Practical jokes are generally lighthearted and without lasting effect; they aim to make the victim feel humbled or foolish, but not victimized or humiliated. Thus most practical jokes are affectionate gestures of humour and designed to encourage laughter. However, practical jokes performed with cruelty can constitute bullying, whose intent is to harass or exclude rather than reinforce social bonds through ritual humbling.  Some countries in Western culture traditionally emphasize the carrying out of practical jokes on April Fools' Day and Mischief Night.<ref name="EconJape"> </ref>
Who was the director of Practical Jokers? [SEP] Impractical Jokers: The Movie  Impractical Jokers: The Movie is a 2020 American reality comedy film directed by Chris Henchy, based on the truTV television series "Impractical Jokers". The film stars Brian Quinn, James Murray, Sal Vulcano, and Joe Gatto, also known as The Tenderloins. It was theatrically released on February 21, 2020. The film received generally mixed reviews and was a box office success, grossing $10 million against a budget of $3 million.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP]  The Tree was written and directed by Julie Bertuccelli, it is based on the screenplay by Elizabeth J. Mars, produced by Sue Taylor of Taylor Media, Yael Fogiel and Laetitia Gonzalez of Les Films du Poisson, and is a co-production between Australia and France. It came to be a co-production when Julie Bertuccelli was given the book Our Father Who Art in the Tree by a close friend. When she looked into getting the rights for the film she found that Australian producer Sue Taylor already had them, however she did not have a director. It just so happened that Julie is a director, and from there the co-production was born. The tree used in the film is Teviotville Tree, located in the small town of Teviotville in the state of Queensland. It has a 34 m spread, 20 m height and 2.31 m diameter at 1 m above ground, which is the narrowest point. The tree has low branches which have not been pruned off, and when they are laden with fruit they reach the ground. It is very rare to find this in a Moreton Bay Fig tree. It is estimated that it was planted in 1880.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP]  From 1986 to 2014 the theatre ran a trainee director scheme, each year appointing two young assistant directors. Graduates of this scheme included Rachel Kavanaugh, Timothy Sheader, Sean Holmes, Dominic Hill, and Anthony Clark. This was replaced by a Resident Director position in 2014/15. The Orange Tree currently runs an MA in Theatre Directing with St Mary's University, Twickenham which started in 2016–17.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP]  The Tree is a 1969 American film that was written, produced, and directed, by Robert Guenette. A psychological drama revolving around the kidnapping of a young child, the film stars Jordan Christopher, Eileen Heckart, Alan Landers, Gale Dixon, James Broderick, Kathy Ryan, Ruth Ford, and George Rose.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP]  The Tree is a 1993 short film that Todd Field created while a fellow at the AFI Conservatory. It is a non-verbal dramatic piece following the life of a boy born at the turn of the century. The single setting, an apple tree set high on a rural ridge, is where we glimpse the boy mature, fall in love, go to war, return with his own son, and finally pay his last respects as a very old man who has seen much change. The set was designed using the tree as a scale foreground visual anchor and employing forced perspective for other items appearing in frame, including distant mountains, a train, and a town in transition. The scene changes from season to season and year to year all achieved practically using trompe-l'œil. The film is loosely based upon and inspired by the story The Giving Tree by Shel Silverstein.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP]  The Tree is a French-Australian 2010 film co-produced between Australia and France. It was filmed in the small town of Boonah in Queensland, Australia, and follows the lives of Dawn (Charlotte Gainsbourg) and her four children after the unexpected death of her husband Peter (Aden Young). The film is an adaptation of the 2002 debut novel Our Father Who Art in the Tree by Australian writer and performer Judy Pascoe. The film closed the Cannes Film Festival on 23 May 2010 following the Awards Ceremony and received a seven-minute standing ovation. In addition, The Tree premiered at the 2010 Sydney Film Festival. The film is distributed in the US by Zeitgeist Films, opening on 15 July 2011 in New York, on 22 July in Los Angeles, Boston and Washington, D.C., and throughout the country over the summer.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP] Mark Schwahn  Mark Schwahn (born July 5, 1966) is an American former screenwriter, director, and producer. He is best known as the creator of the WB/CW teen drama series "One Tree Hill". His career largely ended in 2018 following widespread sexual harassment accusations.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP] Silver Tree  Silver Tree is a TV and Film writer, producer and director, from Petaluma, California
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP] The Tree of Life (film)  The Tree of Life is a 2011 American experimental coming-of-age drama film written and directed by Terrence Malick and featuring a cast of Brad Pitt, Sean Penn, Hunter McCracken, Laramie Eppler, Jessica Chastain, and Tye Sheridan in his debut feature film role. The film chronicles the origins and meaning of life by way of a middle-aged man's childhood memories of his family living in 1950s Texas, interspersed with imagery of the origins of the known universe and the inception of life on Earth.  After several years in development and missing its planned 2009 and 2010 release dates, "The Tree of Life" premiered in competition at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where it was awarded the Palme d'Or. It ranked number one on review aggregator Metacritic's "Top Ten List of 2011", and made more critics' year-end lists for 2011 than any other film. It appeared in the 2012 "Sight & Sound" critics' poll of the world's top 250 films as well as BBC's poll of the greatest American films, one of the few 21st-century works to be included in either. The film was also later named the seventh-greatest film since 2000 in a BBC poll of 177 critics. In December 2019, "The Tree of Life" topped The Associated Press' list of the best films of the 2010s. "The Tree of Life" received three Oscar nominations: Best Picture, Best Director and Best Cinematography.
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP] Lemon Tree (film)  Lemon Tree (; ) is a 2008 Israeli drama film directed by Eran Riklis and co-directed by his cousin Ira Riklis. It stars Hiam Abbass, Ali Suliman, Danny Leshman, Rona Lipaz-Michael, Tarik Kopty, Amos Lavi, Lana Zreik and Amnon Wolf.<ref name=meta/> The film describes the legal efforts of a Palestinian widow to stop the Israeli Defense Minister, her next door neighbor, from destroying the lemon trees in her family farm. At the same time, she develops a human bond with the minister's wife.<ref name=grove/>  It was released in Israel on 27 March 2008, and it received a tepid response from Israeli audiences.<ref name="sf"/><ref name= "sweet"/> It was released internationally through IFC Films on 17 April 2009.<ref name=meta/> From there, the film has achieved critical success and it has received nominations for several awards such as Best Actress and Best Screenwriter at the 21st European Film Awards.<ref name="sf"/><ref name=sweet/><ref name="award"/>
Who was the director of The Tree? [SEP] Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research  The Laboratory of Tree-Ring Research (LTRR) was established in 1937 by A.E. Douglass, founder of the modern science of dendrochronology. The LTRR is a research unit in the College of Science at the University of Arizona in Tucson. Since its founding, visiting scholars and faculty at the lab have done notable work in the areas of climate change, fire history, ecology, archeology and hydrology.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]  Driven is a 2018 biographical comedy thriller film directed by Nick Hamm and written by Colin Bateman. The film stars Jason Sudeikis, Lee Pace, Judy Greer, Isabel Arraiza, Michael Cudlitz, Erin Moriarty, Iddo Goldberg, Tara Summers, Justin Bartha, and Corey Stoll. The film premiered at the 75th Venice International Film Festival on September 8, 2018, and subsequently screened at the 2018 Toronto International Film Festival. It was released in the United States on August 16, 2019, by Universal Pictures Home Entertainment Content Group and in the United Kingdom on November 8, 2019, by Vertigo Releasing.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]  the director, a first in his career. The actor chose Danish filmmaker Nicolas Winding Refn, whose work he admired. He said, "It had to be [him]. There was no other choice." When Refn read the first screenplay for Drive, he was more intrigued by the concept of a man having a split personality, being a stuntman by day and a getaway driver at night, than the plot of the story. Believing that the director might be intimidated by the script, as it was unlike anything he had done before, Gosling had concerns about whether Refn wanted to participate. Refn took on the project without hesitation.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]  Driven (2008) was the second annual Driven professional wrestling pay-per-view event produced by Ring of Honor. It aired on pay-per-view on November 14, 2008 and took place at Boston University's Case Gym in Boston, Massachusetts.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]  Driven is a 1923 American silent romance film produced and distributed by Universal Pictures. The director of the film was Charles Brabin. This film appears to be lost. The film was adapted from "The Flower of the Flock", a short story by Jay Gelzer.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]  In 1971, Drive, He Said, was made into a movie directed by Jack Nicholson, who collaborated with Larner on the screenplay. This film constituted Nicholson's directorial debut and is available as part of the Criterion edition "America Lost and Found: The BBS Story."
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP] Nicolas Winding Refn  Nicolas Winding Refn (; born 29 September 1970), also known as Jang, is a Danish film director, screenwriter, and producer. He is known for his collaborations with Mads Mikkelsen, Tom Hardy and Ryan Gosling.   He gained great success early in his career directing the "Pusher" trilogy (1996–2005), the crime drama "Bronson" (2008), and the adventure film "Valhalla Rising" (2009). In 2011 he gained newfound stardom directing the action drama film "Drive" (2011) for which he won the Cannes Film Festival Award for Best Director. He was also nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Direction. Refn's next films were the stylistically driven action film "Only God Forgives" (2013), and the psychological horror film "The Neon Demon" (2016). In 2019, he directed his first television series "Too Old to Die Young" (2019) which premiered on Amazon Prime.  In 2008, Refn co-founded the Copenhagen-based production company Space Rocket Nation.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP] Drive (2011 film)  Drive is a 2011 American action drama film directed by Nicolas Winding Refn. The screenplay, written by Hossein Amini, is based on James Sallis's 2005 novel of the same name. The film stars Ryan Gosling as an unnamed Hollywood stunt driver who moonlights as a getaway driver. He quickly grows fond of his neighbor, Irene (Carey Mulligan), and her young son, Benicio. When her debt-ridden husband, Standard (Oscar Isaac), is released from prison, the two men take part in what turns out to be a botched million-dollar heist that endangers the lives of everyone involved. The film co-stars Bryan Cranston, Christina Hendricks, Ron Perlman, and Albert Brooks.  Producers Marc Platt and Adam Siegel optioned the source novel after Siegel read a review from "Publishers Weekly". Adapting the book proved to be challenging for Amini, as it had a nonlinear narrative. Gosling, one of Platt's top casting choices, eventually signed on for the lead, as he wanted to star in an action-oriented project. Gosling played a pivotal role in the film's production, which included hiring Refn as director and Beth Mickle as production designer. Newton Thomas Sigel oversaw the principal photography, which started on September 25, 2010, was shot on location in various parts of Los Angeles, and ended on November 12.  Before its September 2011 release, "Drive" had been shown at a number of film festivals, including the 2011 Cannes Film Festival, where it received a standing ovation. Refn won the festival's Best Director Award. The film was praised for its direction, cinematography, performances (particularly Gosling and Brooks'), visuals, action sequences, and musical score; however, some critics were appalled by its graphic violence and found that potentially detrimental to the film's box office success. Nonetheless, the film was still a commercial success, grossing $81 million against a production budget of $15 million. Several critics listed "Drive" as one of the best films of 2011, including the National Board of Review. Its honors include a nomination for Best Sound Editing at the 84th Academy Awards.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP]
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP] Mulholland Drive (film)  Mulholland Drive (stylized as Mulholland Dr.) is a 2001 surrealist neo-noir mystery film written and directed by David Lynch and starring Naomi Watts, Laura Harring, Justin Theroux, Ann Miller, Mark Pellegrino, and Robert Forster. It tells the story of an aspiring actress named Betty Elms (Watts), newly arrived in Los Angeles, who meets and befriends an amnesiac woman (Harring) recovering from a car accident. The story follows several other vignettes and characters, including a Hollywood film director (Theroux).  The American-French co-production was originally conceived as a television pilot, and a large portion of the film was shot in 1999 with Lynch's plan to keep it open-ended for a potential series. After viewing Lynch's cut, however, television executives rejected it. Lynch then provided an ending to the project, making it a feature film. The half-pilot, half-feature result, along with Lynch's characteristic surrealist style, has left the general meaning of the film's events open to interpretation. Lynch has declined to offer an explanation of his intentions for the narrative, leaving audiences, critics, and cast members to speculate on what transpires. He gave the film the tagline "A love story in the city of dreams".  Categorized as a psychological thriller, "Mulholland Drive" earned Lynch the "Prix de la mise en scène" (Best Director Award) at the 2001 Cannes Film Festival, sharing the prize with Joel Coen for "The Man Who Wasn't There". Lynch also earned an Academy Award nomination for Best Director. The film boosted Watts' Hollywood profile considerably, and was the last feature film to star veteran Hollywood actress Ann Miller.  "Mulholland Drive" is often regarded as one of Lynch's finest works and as one of the greatest films of all time. It was ranked 8th in the 2022 "Sight & Sound" critics' poll of the best films ever made and topped a 2016 BBC poll of the best films since 2000.
Who was the director of Driven? [SEP] Driving Miss Daisy  The story defines Daisy and her point of view through a network of relationships and emotions by focusing on her home life, synagogue, friends, family, fears, and concerns over a twenty-five-year period.  "Driving Miss Daisy" was a critical and commercial success upon its release and at the 62nd Academy Awards received nine nominations, and won four: Best Picture, Best Actress (for Tandy), Best Makeup, and Best Adapted Screenplay. , it is the most recent PG-rated film to have won Best Picture.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP]  Son contento (I'm Happy) is a 1983 Italian drama comedy film directed by Maurizio Ponzi. For his performance Carlo Giuffré won the David di Donatello for best supporting actor.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP]  Son is a 2008 short film starring Natalie Press. Financed and commissioned by Sony Vaio it was a branded content short that would become Viao's first branded content film. It went on to win multiple awards including Best Film at Edinburgh International Film Festival and Best Film at Slamdance Film Festival, becoming both a commercial hit and critical success for Sony Vaio.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP]  Sony Vaio commissioned three artists: musicians Plan B, DJ Norman Jay and filmmaker Daniel Mulloy to each create branded pieces of content for Sony Vaio. Son was commissioned as a marketing tool for the Sony Vaio computer and actress Natalie Press was cast in the lead role. In the filmmaker's hands a narrative was created in which the relationship with Sony Vaio became more subliminal to audiences than traditional product placement. After winning Slamdance Film Festival Son was invited to become one of the first short films to feature on YouTube's newly opened Screening Room. Son's subsequent success led YouTube to promote Son on its US home-page as a featured video.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP] Francesco Nuti: Francesco ; Barbara De Rossi: Paola ; Carlo Giuffré: Falcone ; Novello Novelli: Manager ; Ricky Tognazzi: Postman
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP]  In 2003 Hernández Cordón directed the short film Km 31 and five years later, Gasolina (2008), his first feature film, premiered. The film, about three teenagers who steal gasoline to go out at night and drive around in their mom's car, won the Industry, Casa de América and CICAE Awards at the San Sebastián International Film Festival. While reviewing the film, Variety stated that the director "prominently displays his pitifully scarce resources in the guise of minimalism". His second film, was the documentary Las Marimbas del Infierno (2010), about Don Alfonso, a marimbero extorted by the mara, and Blacko, a doctor who plays
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP] Son contento  Son contento ("I'm Happy") is a 1983 Italian drama comedy film directed by Maurizio Ponzi.  For his performance Carlo Giuffré won the David di Donatello for best supporting actor.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP] Pietro Castellitto  Pietro Contento Castellitto (born 16 December 1991) is an Italian actor, film director, and screenwriter, son of actor and director Sergio Castellitto and writer Margaret Mazzantini.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP] Maurizio Ponzi  Maurizio Ponzi (born 8 May 1939) is an Italian film director, screenwriter and cinema critic.  Born in Rome, he wrote cinema reviews in several Italian magazines during the early 1960s. He worked as assistant director in Pier Paolo Pasolini's episode in "Amore e rabbia" and directed a series of documentaries in 1967–1968.  He has directed 22 films between 1968 (his debut film "I visionari" won a prize in the Locarno Festival) and 2004. His film "The Pool Hustlers" ("Io, Chiara e lo Scuro", one of three featuring Francesco Nuti that Ponzi directed in the early 1980s) was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1983 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP] Francesco Nuti  Francesco Nuti (born 17 May 1955) is an Italian actor, film director and screenwriter.
Who was the director of Son contento? [SEP]
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP]  The Midnight Taxi is a 1928 American early part-talkie thriller picture from Warner Bros. directed by John G. Adolfi and starring Antonio Moreno, Helen Costello, and Myrna Loy. According to the Library of Congress, it has a completed copy of the film and found at British Film Institute's National Film and Television Archive..
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP]  Taxi at Midnight (German: Die Mitternachtstaxe) is a 1929 German silent thriller film directed by Harry Piel and starring Piel, Betty Bird and Philipp Manning. The film's art direction was by Fritz Maurischat and Max Knaake.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP]  A federal agent poses as a taxi driver to infiltrate a gang of counterfeiters.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP]  Midnight Taxi is a 1937 American crime film directed by Eugene Forde and starring Brian Donlevy, Frances Drake and Alan Dinehart.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] Brian Donlevy as Charles 'Chick' Gardner ; Frances Drake as Gilda Lee ; Alan Dinehart as Philip Strickland ; Sig Ruman as John B. Rudd ; Gilbert Roland as Flash Dillon ; Harold Huber as Walter 'Lucky' Todd ; Paul Stanon as Agent J. W. McNeary ; Lon Chaney Jr. as Detective Erickson ; Russell Hicks as Barney Flagg ; Regis Toomey as Hilton ; Agnes Ayres as Society Woman ; Joseph E. Bernard as Copy Reader ; Edgar Dearing as Officer Murray ; John Dilson as Doc Wilson ; James Flavin as Detective McCormick ; Creighton Hale as G-Man ; Sherry Hall as Monte ; Eddie Hart as Detective Morton ; Otto Hoffman as Louie the Tailor ; Frank Marlowe as Sailor ; Paul McVey as Robert Powers ; Frank Mills as Gas Station Attendant ; Frank O'Connor as FBI Agent ; Lee Phelps as Chief of Detectives ; Arthur Rankin as Sailor ; Pedro Regas as Dazetta ; Jeffrey Sayre as Buck ; Harry Semels as Joe, Counterman ; Harry Strang as FBI Agent ; Zeffie Tilbury as Mrs. Lane ; Hughey White as Newspaper Vendor ; Norman Willis as Jefferson
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] Midnight in Paris  Midnight in Paris is a 2011 fantasy comedy film written and directed by Woody Allen. Set in Paris, the film follows Gil Pender (Owen Wilson), a screenwriter, who is forced to confront the shortcomings of his relationship with his materialistic fiancée (Rachel McAdams) and their divergent goals, which become increasingly exaggerated as he travels back in time each night at midnight.  Produced by the Spanish group Mediapro and Allen's US-based Gravier Productions, the film stars Wilson, McAdams, Kathy Bates, Adrien Brody, Carla Bruni, Tom Hiddleston, Marion Cotillard, and Michael Sheen. It premiered at the 2011 Cannes Film Festival and was released in the United States on May 20, 2011. The film opened to critical acclaim and is considered one of Allen's best films in recent years. In 2012, it won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay and the Golden Globe Award for Best Screenplay. It was nominated for three other Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Director and Best Art Direction.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] Midnight Taxi (song)
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] Midnight Taxi (1937 film)  Midnight Taxi is a 1937 American crime film directed by Eugene Forde and starring Brian Donlevy, Frances Drake and Alan Dinehart.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] The Midnight Taxi  The Midnight Taxi is a 1928 American early part-talkie thriller picture from Warner Bros. directed by John G. Adolfi and starring Antonio Moreno, Helen Costello, and Myrna Loy. According to the Library of Congress, it has a completed copy of the film and found at British Film Institute's National Film and Television Archive.
Who was the director of Taxi at Midnight? [SEP] Midnight Cowboy  Midnight Cowboy is a 1969 American drama film, based on the 1965 novel of the same name by James Leo Herlihy. The film was written by Waldo Salt, directed by John Schlesinger, and stars Dustin Hoffman and Jon Voight, with notable smaller roles being filled by Sylvia Miles, John McGiver, Brenda Vaccaro, Bob Balaban, Jennifer Salt, and Barnard Hughes. Set in New York City, "Midnight Cowboy" depicts the unlikely friendship between two hustlers: naïve sex worker Joe Buck (Voight), and ailing con man Enrico "Ratso" Rizzo (Hoffman).  At the 42nd Academy Awards, the film won three awards: Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. "Midnight Cowboy" is the only X-rated film ever to win Best Picture. It has since been placed 36th on the American Film Institute's list of the 100 greatest American films of all time, and 43rd on its 2007 updated version.  In 1994, "Midnight Cowboy" was deemed "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress and selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry.
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP]  C. Lozano was Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of USA Freedom Corps from September 11, 2007 until July 25, 2008. He was preceded by Desiree Thompson Sayle and succeeded by Alison T. Young. The first director of the program was John Bridgeland, previously director of the Domestic Policy Council on George W. Bush's White House staff. The USA Freedom Corps also announced it has begun to work "with educators and others to help increase civic awareness and participation" across the United States and hosted a White House Summit on American History, Civics and Service, resulting in new initiatives to support civic education at the National
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP]  Anthony Romero became executive director in September 2001, just before the September 11, 2001 attacks. He is the first openly gay man and the first Hispanic director of the civil liberties institution. After the September 11th attacks, Romero launched a national campaign called "Keep America Safe and Free" to protect American civil liberties and basic freedoms during a time of crisis in the United States. The campaign successfully targeted the Patriot Act, achieving a number of court victories, and uncovered hundreds of thousands of documents detailing the illegal torture and abuse of detainees in U.S. custody in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Guantanamo. As a result of their successful
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP]  British producer and religious minister George Hargreaves premiered Freedom on stage in Europe in August 2017. It was staged at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in Scotland and the Bernie Grant Arts Centre in London between August 15-26th that same year.
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP]  Henry Lozano (born August 24, 1948) is a non-profit executive and grassroots organizer. His years of public service culminated in his post at the White House as Deputy Assistant to the President and Director of USA Freedom Corps. On August 10, 2011, he was appointed to serve as the Director of Los Angeles County Teen Challenge and Urban Ministries Initiatives. On September 11, 2007, President George W. Bush asked Lozano to step into the job of Deputy Assistant to the President and director of USA Freedom Corps. In this role, he advanced the "Call to Service" initiative launched by President George W. Bush in his 2002 "State of the Union" address. President George W. Bush created USA Freedom Corps to build on the countless acts of service, sacrifice and generosity that followed the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks. As director, Lozano coordinated service
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP]  trainer, working with Staughton Lynd in his capacity as orientation director, as well as Vincent Harding. In Mississippi, Simmons was sent to the city of Laurel in Jones County, an area notorious for Klan violence. In this environment, Simmons feared for her life, regularly encountering hostility and police harassment. When her project director, Lester McKinney, was sent to jail, Simmons was appointed to replace him, despite her lack of field organizing experience. She thus became one of only seven female Freedom Summer project directors. Under Simmons' direction, Freedom Summer volunteers operated a Freedom School, opened a day care, registered voters, and established a library.
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP] Freedom Writers  Freedom Writers is a 2007 American drama film written and directed by Richard LaGravenese and starring Hilary Swank, Scott Glenn, Imelda Staunton, Patrick Dempsey and Mario.  It is based on the 1999 book "The Freedom Writers Diary" by teacher Erin Gruwell and students who compiled the book out of real diary entries about their lives that they wrote in their English class at Woodrow Wilson Classical High School in Long Beach, California. The movie is also based on the DC program called City at Peace. The title of the movie and book is a play on the term "Freedom Riders", referring to the multiracial civil rights activists who tested the U.S. Supreme Court decision ordering the desegregation of interstate buses in 1961.  The idea for the film came from journalist Tracey Durning, who made a documentary about Erin Gruwell for the ABC News program "Primetime Live". Durning served as co-executive producer of the film. The film was dedicated to the memory of Armand Jones, who was killed after filming "Freedom Writers." He was fatally shot at age 18 in Anaheim, California after a confrontation with a man who robbed Jones of a necklace in a Denny's restaurant.
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP] Sound of Freedom (film)  Sound of Freedom is an unreleased American biographical action drama film directed by Alejandro Monteverde. It stars Jim Caviezel, Mira Sorvino, and Bill Camp. Caviezel plays Tim Ballard, a self-styled anti-human trafficking activist and founder of the organization Operation Underground Railroad.
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP] Freedom! '90  "Freedom! '90" (also known simply as "Freedom!") is a song written, produced, and performed by George Michael, and released on Columbia Records in 1990. The "'90" added to the end of the title is to prevent confusion with a hit by Michael's former band Wham!, also entitled "Freedom". The song's backing beat is a sample from James Brown's song "Funky Drummer".  It was the third single taken from "Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1" (1990), though released as the second single from the album in the US and Australia. "Freedom! '90" was one of a few uptempo songs on this album. It was a major hit and peaked at No. 8 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. The song refers to Michael's past success with Wham!, yet also shows a new side of himself as a new man, who is more cynical about the music business than he had been before.   Michael refused to appear in the music video for the song and cast a group of supermodels to appear instead. It went into heavy rotation on MTV and was remastered for the 2017 documentary, "George Michael: Freedom". On 30 October 2020 it premiered on YouTube in 4K for its 30th anniversary. Michael performed this song, alongside his 2012 single "White Light", during the of the 2012 London Olympics. In 2021, "Rolling Stone" placed "Freedom! '90" at number 126 in their list of "500 Best Songs of All Time".
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP] Nancy Caroline  Nancy Lee Caroline, (June 27, 1944 – December 12, 2002), was an American physician and writer who worked in emergency medical services (EMS). She was a Medical Director of Freedom House, an emergency ambulance service that assisted underserved populations in Pittsburgh in the 1960s and 1970s. She was also the first medical director of Magen David Adom, Israel's Red Cross Society, and was later called by colleagues, "Israel's Mother Teresa".
Who was the director of Freedom? [SEP] Freedom House Ambulance Service  Freedom House Ambulance Service was the first emergency medical service in the United States to be staffed by paramedics with medical training beyond basic first aid. Founded in 1967 to serve the predominantly black Hill District of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, the majority of its staff were Black American. Freedom House Ambulance Service broke medical ground by training its personnel to previously unheard-of standards of emergency medical care for patients en route to hospitals. The paramedic training and ambulance design standards pioneered in the Freedom House Ambulance Service would set the standard for emergency care nationally and even internationally. Despite its successes, the ambulance service was closed eight years after it began operating.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] Georgi Georgiev-Getz as the screenwriter ; Plamena Getova as Elena ; Konstantin Kotsev as the film director ; Katerina Evro as Maria ; Pavel Popandov as Milko ; Vania Tzvetkova as the actress Vania ; Stefan Danailov as the actor ; Nevena Simeonova as Elena's mother ; Luchezar Stoyanov as the cameraman ; Ivan Dzhambazov as the chief of the production ; Maria Stefanova as the screenwriter's wife ; Stefan Ilyev as the friend of the Maria's father
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP]  Though elected to a ninth term in 1992, Panetta left the House at the beginning of 1993, after President-elect Bill Clinton selected him to serve as Director of the United States Office of Management and Budget. In that role he developed the budget package that would eventually result in the balanced budget of 1998.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP]  Balance was born Geoffrey Laurence Burton. He took the surname 'Rushton' from his stepfather. During his teens, Balance became acquainted with Christopherson as a fan of the latter's group Throbbing Gristle. The duo were both members of Psychic TV, Christopherson's next project after Throbbing Gristle. They eventually quit Psychic TV to form Coil. Balance was extremely active as a youth and in his early twenties. Apart from his early musical releases and involvement in bands before Coil, he published seven issues of a fanzine, Stabmental, and was a tireless correspondent with members of the alternative musical and cultural scene in the UK and also abroad. He also released three compilation albums of music by bands and artists about which he was enthusiastic: Endzeit, Bethel and The Men with the Deadly Dreams. The compilations are today collector’s items and fetch high prices. Also from his youth, Balance was an avid occultist, maintaining a lifelong interest in the likes of Aleister Crowley and Austin Osman Spare.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP]  Balance died on 13 November 2004 after losing his balance and falling from a two-story balcony at his home. Peter Christopherson announced Balance's death on the Threshold House website, and provided details surrounding the accident. Balance's memorial service was held near Bristol on 23 November, and was attended by approximately 100 people. November 2014 saw the publication of a retrospective volume of his art called "Bright Lights and Cats with no Mouths" by Edition Timeless.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP]  Creating Equilibrium, an environmental summit in Lake Tahoe, CA in 2017, was founded by Steven Kotler, Gabrielle Hull, Matt Reardon and Antony Randall. Steven was creator, writer, Co-producer and Key Note speaker of Visions.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] International Monetary Fund  The International Monetary Fund (IMF) is a major financial agency of the United Nations, and an international financial institution, headquartered in Washington, D.C., consisting of 190 countries. Its stated mission is "working to foster global monetary cooperation, secure financial stability, facilitate international trade, promote high employment and sustainable economic growth, and reduce poverty around the world." Formed in 1944, started on 27 December 1945, it came into formal existence in 1945 with 29 member countries and the goal of reconstructing the international monetary system. It now plays a central role in the management of balance of payments difficulties and international financial crises. The IMF is regarded as the global lender of last resort.  Through the fund and other activities such as the gathering of statistics and analysis, surveillance of its members' economies, and the demand for particular policies, the IMF works to influence the economies of its member countries. The organization's objectives stated in the Articles of Agreement are: to promote international monetary co-operation, international trade, high employment, exchange-rate stability, sustainable economic growth, and making resources available to member countries in financial difficulty. IMF funds come from two major sources: quotas and loans. Quotas, which are pooled funds of member nations, generate most IMF funds. The size of a member's quota depends on its economic and financial importance in the world. Nations with greater economic significance have larger quotas. The quotas are increased periodically as a means of boosting the IMF's resources in the form of special drawing rights.  The current managing director (MD) and Chairwoman of the IMF is Bulgarian economist Kristalina Georgieva, who has held the post since October 1, 2019. Indian-American economist Gita Gopinath, who previously served as Chief Economist, was appointed as First Deputy Managing Director, effective January 21, 2022. Pierre-Olivier Gourinchas replaced Gopinath as Chief Economist on January 24, 2022.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] Light Balance  Light Balance are a Ukrainian LED dance troupe formed in 2012 and based in Dnipro, Ukraine. They are best known for television appearances in competition shows.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] New Balance  New Balance Athletics, Inc. (NB), best known as simply New Balance, is one of the world's major sports footwear and apparel manufacturers. Based in Boston, Massachusetts, the multinational corporation was founded in 1906 as the New Balance Arch Support Company.  New Balance maintains a manufacturing presence in the United States, as well as in the United Kingdom for the European market, where they produce some of their popular models. New Balance claims to differentiate their products with technical features, such as blended gel inserts, heel counters and a greater selection of sizes, particularly for very narrow or very wide widths. The company is privately held and totaled $4.4 billion in revenue in 2021.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] La Balance  La Balance (U.S. title: "The Nark"; literal translation : "The Informer") is a 1982 French film directed by Bob Swaim. It stars Nathalie Baye, Philippe Léotard, Tchéky Karyo, Maurice Ronet and Jean-Paul Comart. It won the César Award for Best Film, Best Actor and Best Actress, and was nominated for Most Promising Actor (twice), Best Director, Best Writing – Original and Best Editing. The film had a total of 4,192,189 admissions in France becoming the 5th highest-grossing film of the year.
Who was the director of Balance? [SEP] Koyaanisqatsi  Koyaanisqatsi (  The film consists primarily of slow motion and time-lapse footage of cities and many natural landscapes across the United States. The visual tone poem contains neither dialogue nor a vocalized narration: its tone is set by the juxtaposition of images and music. Reggio explained the lack of dialogue by stating "it's not for lack of love of the language that these films have no words. It's because, from my point of view, our language is in a state of vast humiliation. It no longer describes the world in which we live." In the Hopi language, the word means "life out of balance".  The film is the first in the "Qatsi" film trilogy: it is succeeded by "Powaqqatsi" (1988) and "Naqoyqatsi" (2002). The trilogy depicts different aspects of the relationship between humans, nature and technology. "Koyaanisqatsi" is the best known of the trilogy and is considered a cult film. However, because of copyright issues, the film was out of print for most of the 1990s. In 2000, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress for being "culturally, aesthetically, or historically significant".
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] John Broadhurst (to 2010); left when he became a Roman Catholic in 2010 ; Jonathan Baker (2010 to 2014) ; Tony Robinson (2014 to 2018) Stephen Parkinson (1993 to 2012) ; Colin Podmore (2013 to 2020) ; Thomas Middleton (from 2020) Chairman Director
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP]  Following the election of President Donald Trump, the office remained without a director; the website was no longer available. In May 2018, Trump started the Faith and Opportunity Initiative, a new White House office to help faith-based organizations get equal access to government funding.
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP]  As a director, Barton has helmed the following Los Angeles stage productions: ABOUT FAITH (2001), I MAKE YOU LAUGHING (2004), PINK DOT (2005), BURN THIS (2006), THE LAST FIVE YEARS (2007), RABBIT HOLE (2008), THE REAL THING (2009), ENGAGEMENT (2010), and Project X presentations of THE HEIDI CHRONICLES (2012), OLEANNA (2013), SPEED-THE-PLOW (2014), and GRUESOME PLAYGROUND INJURIES (2016).
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP]  Dr. Michael D. Moore is the Senior Pastor. As the Executive Director, Dr. Moore heads up a committee of various FCCC Administrators. This team consists of full-time employees that manage different departments and ministries within FCCC.
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] Episcopal Diocese of Washington – Howard serves as executive director of FaithX under an extension of ministry from the Diocese. ; Datastory – Howard acts as Subject Matter Expert (SME) and FaithX has an affiliate relation. ; Esri – FaithX is an Esri Partner organization.
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP]
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] Melissa Rogers  Melissa Rogers is an American church-state lawyer and non-resident senior fellow in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution. She previously served as special assistant to President Barack Obama and executive director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships. On February 14, 2021, President Joe Biden designated Rogers as executive director of the reestablished Office under his administration.
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] Dallas Jenkins  Dallas Jenkins (born July 25, 1975) is an American film and television director, writer and film producer. He is best known as the creator, director and co-writer of "The Chosen", the first multi-season series about the life of Jesus of Nazareth, and the most successful media crowd-fund of all time.  Jenkins's career is focused on faith-based media. In an interview with the "Chicago Sun Times", Jenkins said, "We feel like if people can binge watch and have watch parties all over the world for shows like "Game of Thrones" and "Stranger Things", there's no reason not to binge watch a show about Jesus. The term binge means to, you know, kind of have an obsession with something, and if we figure out how to have an obsession with Jesus, we might as well encourage that."
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] Joey Soloway  Joey Soloway (previously Jill Soloway; born September 26, 1965) is an American television creator, showrunner, director and writer. Soloway is known for creating, writing, executive producing and directing the Amazon original series "Transparent", winning two Emmys for the show; directing and writing the film "Afternoon Delight", winning the Best Director award at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival; and producing "Six Feet Under".  Soloway identifies as non-binary and gender non-conforming, and uses they/them pronouns. In 2020, Soloway announced a name change to Joey.
Who was the director of Faith? [SEP] Joshua DuBois  Joshua DuBois (born 1982) is an executive and former government official who served as the head of the Office of Faith Based and Neighborhood Partnerships in the Executive Office of the President of the United States from 2009 to 2013. In February 2013 he stepped down to write a book of devotionals based on the ones he sends Obama, start a consulting firm, and become the weekly religion and community solutions columnist for "Newsweek" and "The Daily Beast". DuBois has been included among "The Root 100" and Ebony Magazine's "Power 150" lists of the most influential African Americans in the country. He also appeared on the cover of "Christianity Today" magazine as one of the 33 most influential Christian leaders under 33. In September 2017 it was announced that DuBois would become a CNN Contributor.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP]  On the Run is Bruno de Almeida's 1998 feature film debut. It stars Michael Imperioli and John Ventimiglia (both of The Sopranos) and is written by Joe Minion (After Hours) based on a story by Bruno de Almeida and Jonathan Berman It won the award for best film at the 1999 Ourense Film Festival in Spain. On the Run was nominated for a Critic's award at the Paris Film Festival and for an Open Palm at the Gotham Awards in New York in 2000. It was released theatrically and broadcast in Europe and in the US. It had its cable debut on The Independent Film Channel in 2001, and was released on DVD in 2002, becoming a cult classic.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP]  On the Run is a 1958 British drama film directed by Ernest Morris and starring Neil McCallum, Susan Beaumont and William Hartnell. The screenplay concerns a boxer who becomes romantically involved with a woman.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP]  Arthur J. Berkhard, co-writer and co-director of this film, had a background in theatre, having staged 14 Broadway productions beginning with the hit play Another Language, written by Rose Franken, in 1932. Girl on the Run would be his only film directorial credit.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP]  Love on the Run (L'amour en fuite) is a 1979 French comedy-drama film directed by François Truffaut, his fifth and final film about the character Antoine Doinel. Told in non-linear fashion, with frequent flashbacks to the four previous films, it stars Jean-Pierre Léaud, Claude Jade, Marie-France Pisier, Dorothée, and Dani. It was entered into the 29th Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Michael Imperioli as Albert de Santis ; John Ventimiglia as Louis Salazer ; Drena De Niro as Rita ; Nick Sandow as Jack ; Joaquim de Almeida as Ignácio ; Victor Argo as Man shaving ; Sharon Angela as Tina ; John Frey as George ; Anthony Zaccaro as Cop ; Paul Lazar as Cabbie ; Arthur Nascarella as Irwin ; Joseph Gannascoli as Tony ; Tom Gilroy as Tom ; Anna Kohler as Anna ; Agnês Jaoui as Kirstin ; Suzanne Shepherd as Travel Agent ; Bronson Dudley as Doctor Shapiro ; Dwight Ewell as Rasta
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Run BTS  Run BTS (; also stylized as Run BTS!) is a South Korean variety web series starring boy band BTS. The series broadcasts weekly and has been offered for free viewing on V Live since 2015 and Weverse since 2020. In each episode, the band members play games or participate in a variety of activities that require them to complete challenges, and sometimes carry out secret missions, in order to earn prizes or receive punishments.  Three seasons of the show, comprising 156 episodes, have been released since it premiered on August 1, 2015, with new episodes airing every Tuesday. On August 16, 2022, a special episode—the first new episode following a 10-month-long hiatus after season three ended in October 2021—was released, and later uploaded to BTS' official YouTube channel. Since then, all episodes—new and old—have been made available on the platform.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Run (2020 American film)  Run is a 2020 American psychological horror thriller film directed by Aneesh Chaganty and written by Chaganty and Sev Ohanian. The film stars Kiera Allen as Chloe Sherman, a disabled homeschooled teenager who begins to suspect that her mother Diane (Sarah Paulson) is keeping a dark secret about her upbringing.  The film was announced in June 2018, with Paulson being cast that October and Allen that December. Principal photography also occurred in that time frame, with filming primarily taking place on location in Winnipeg, Manitoba.  "Run" was released on November 20, 2020, by Hulu, theatrically in other territories by Lionsgate, and was released internationally on April 2, 2021, by Netflix. The film received generally positive reviews. It became Hulu's most successful original film upon its release.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Run (2002 film)  Run is a 2002 Indian Tamil-language action film written and directed by N. Linguswamy starring Madhavan and Meera Jasmine (in her Tamil debut). The film also features Vivek, Sunil (in the Telugu version), Atul Kulkarni, Raghuvaran and Anu Hasan in supporting roles, while Vidyasagar composed the film's music. The film released on 5 September 2002 and won positive reviews from critics, prompting the film to be partially reshot in Telugu and remade in Hindi under the same name by the cinematographer, Jeeva.
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Roman Polanski  Raymond Roman Thierry Polański (né Liebling; 18 August 1933) is a French-Polish<ref name="auto3"/> film director, producer, screenwriter, and actor. He is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, two British Academy Film Awards, nine César Awards, two Golden Globe Awards,  as well as the Golden Bear and a Palme d'Or.  His Polish–Jewish parents moved the family from his birthplace in Paris back to Kraków in 1937. Two years later, the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany started World War II, and the family found themselves trapped in the Kraków Ghetto. After his mother and father were taken in raids, Polanski spent his formative years in foster homes, surviving the Holocaust by adopting a false identity and concealing his Jewish heritage. Polanski's first feature-length film, "Knife in the Water" (1962), was made in Poland and was nominated for the United States Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.<ref name="california" /> After living in France for a few years, he moved to the United Kingdom, where he directed his first three English-language feature-length films: "Repulsion" (1965), "Cul-de-sac" (1966), and "The Fearless Vampire Killers" (1967). In 1968, he moved to the United States and cemented his status in the film industry by directing the horror film "Rosemary's Baby" (1968).  Polanski's life changed in 1969 when his pregnant wife, actress Sharon Tate, and four friends were murdered by members of the Manson Family.<ref name="Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired" /><ref name="USAToday"/> He made "Macbeth" (1971) in England and "Chinatown" (1974) back in Hollywood. In 1977, Polanski was arrested and charged with drugging and raping a 13-year-old girl. As a result of a plea bargain, he pleaded guilty to the lesser offence of unlawful sex with a minor. In 1978, upon learning that the judge planned to reject his plea deal and impose a prison term instead of probation, he fled to Paris. As a result, Polanski is a fugitive from the U.S. criminal justice system. After fleeing to Europe, Polanski continued directing. His other critically acclaimed films include "Tess" (1979), "The Pianist" (2002), "The Ghost Writer" (2010), "Venus in Fur" (2013), and "An Officer and a Spy" (2019).
Who was the director of On the Run? [SEP] Sujeeth  Sujeeth Reddy is an Indian film director and writer. He made his directorial debut in Telugu Cinema with the romantic comedy thriller film "Run Raja Run" at the age of 23. Prior to films, Sujeeth started to study to be a chartered accountant, but eventually quit to pursue his passion for filmmaking. He received SIIMA Award for Best Debut Director (Telugu) in 2015 for the film "Run Raja Run".
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]  Variety is a 1983 American independent film directed by Bette Gordon with a screenplay by Kathy Acker from a story by Gordon. The film stars Sandy McLeod, Will Patton, and Richard M. Davidson. The film follows a young woman who takes a job at a New York City pornographic theater and becomes increasingly obsessed with a wealthy patron who may or may not be involved with the mafia.
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]  After meeting Kathy Acker, Bette Gordon asked her to collaborate on a screenplay for a new film. Gordon also collaborated with the burgeoning New York film scene: "The film is a sort of Who’s Who of downtown street cred: music by John Lurie, cinematography by frequent Jarmusch collaborator Tom de Cillo, script by former sex worker and Pushcart Prize-winning feminist novelist Kathy Acker, and roles played by Spalding Gray, Luis Guzman, Mark Boone Junior and photographer Nan Goldin (who also took production stills)." The film was produced with an initial $80,000 budget, provided by ZDF West German Television, Great Britain's Channel 4, and the New York State Council. It played at the 1983 Toronto Film Festival and the 1984 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]  McCarthy joined Daily Variety in 1979 and worked there as a reporter and film critic until 1989. In 1990, McCarthy wrote the PBS documentary Preston Sturges: The Rise and Fall of an American Dreamer which won him an Emmy Award. He directed four documentaries about film: Visions of Light (1992), Claudia Jennings (1995), Forever Hollywood (1999), and Man of Cinema: Pierre Rissient (2007). Visions of Light was named the Best Documentary of the Year award by the National Society of Film Critics and the New York Film Critics Circle. Forever Hollywood has been played at Grauman's Egyptian Theatre for more than a decade. In 1991 he joined Variety as film review editor of Variety and Daily Variety. He wrote about the producer/director Howard
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]  the principal film critic from December 1964 until October 1978. ; Pry - Thomas M. Pryor, editor of Daily Variety from 1959 until his retirement in 1988. ; Rush - Alfred Greason ; Sid or Skig - Sidne Silverman, Variety publisher and Sime's son. ; Sime - Sime Silverman, founder of Variety and the first to write a film review for the paper. ; Sisk - Robert Sisk, formerly a writer of "news letters" for The Sun in Baltimore, Maryland. ; Syd - Syd Silverman, Sime's grandson ; The Skirt - Hattie Silverman, Sime's wife ; Ung - Arthur Ungar, first Daily Variety editor ; Whit - Whitney Williams On January 19, 1907, Variety published what is considered the first film
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]  The German director Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck cites being unexpectedly exposed to the film as a child of four as the start of his interest in the medium. This film is believed to contain the first documentation of unicycle hockey – it features a short sequence showing two people playing the game.
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP]
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP] Shin Won-ho (director)  Shin Won-ho (; born August 28, 1975) is a South Korean director and television producer. He is known for producing and directing the acclaimed anthology series "Reply".
Who was the director of Variety? [SEP] Na Yeong-seok  Na Yeong-seok (, born April 15, 1976), often known by his nickname Na PD, is a South Korean television producer and director. Na is best known for producing the popular variety-reality shows "2 Days & 1 Night", "New Journey to the West", "Grandpas Over Flowers", "Three Meals a Day", "Youn's Kitchen", "Youn's Stay" and their spin-offs.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP]  The Night Riders is a 1939 American "Three Mesquiteers" Western film starring John Wayne, Ray "Crash" Corrigan, and Max Terhune. Wayne played the lead in eight of the fifty-one Three Mesquiteer films. The director was George Sherman. The villain of the film was based on a real-life character in the Old West, James Reavis, who was also known as The Baron of Arizona.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP]  The Night Riders is a 1920 British silent western film directed by Alexander Butler and starring Maudie Dunham, Albert Ray and Alexander Butler. It was one of several films made by the British producer G.B. Samuelson at Universal City in California.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP]  Riders of the Night is a 1918 American silent drama film directed by John H. Collins and starred his wife Viola Dana. It was produced and distributed by the Metro Pictures company. A print is held at EYE Institute, Amsterdam aka Filmmuseum Amsterdam.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] John Wayne as Stony Brooke ; Ray Corrigan as Tucson Smith ; Max Terhune as Lullaby Joslin ; Elmer as Elmer (Lullaby Joslin's Ventriloquist Dummy) (uncredited) ; Doreen McKay as Soledad ; Ruth Rogers as Susan Randall ; George Douglas as Talbot Pierce, aka Don Luis de Serrano ; Tom Tyler as Henchman Jackson ; Kermit Maynard as Sheriff Pratt ; Sammy McKim as Tim Randall ; Walter Wills as Hazleton (the Forger) ; Ethan Laidlaw as Henchman Andrews ; Edward Peil Sr. as Rancher ; Tom London as Rancher ; Jack Ingram as Henchman Wilkins ; Bill Nestell as Brawler ; Hank Worden as Rancher (uncredited) ; Horace Murphy as Riverboat Captain Asa Beckett (uncredited) ; Yakima Canutt as Mob Member at Gate (uncredited) ; Bob Card as Rancher (uncredited) ; Allan Cavan as Judge (uncredited) ; Dick Dickinson as Henchman Rent Collector (uncredited
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP]  A Cornish emigrant to Canada battles against cattle rustlers in Alberta.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] The Night Riders (1939 film)  The Night Riders is a 1939 American "Three Mesquiteers" Western film starring John Wayne, Ray "Crash" Corrigan, and Max Terhune. Wayne played the lead in eight of the fifty-one Three Mesquiteer films. The director was George Sherman. The villain of the film was based on a real-life character in the Old West, James Reavis, who was also known as The Baron of Arizona.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] Kolkata Knight Riders  Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) are a franchise cricket team representing the city of Kolkata in the Indian Premier League. The franchise is owned by Bollywood actor Shah Rukh Khan, actress Juhi Chawla and her spouse Jay Mehta. The Knight Riders play at the Eden Gardens stadium.  The franchise, which has gained immense popularity due to its association with celebrity owners, qualified for the IPL playoffs for the first time in 2011. They became the IPL champions in 2012, by defeating Chennai Super Kings in the final. They repeated the feat in 2014, defeating Kings XI Punjab. The Knight Riders hold the record for the longest winning streak by any Indian team in T20s (14).  The side's all-time leading run-scorer is Gautam Gambhir, while their leading wicket-taker is Sunil Narine. The official theme of the team is "Korbo, Lorbo, Jeetbo Re" ("we will perform, fight, and win!") and the official colours are purple and gold.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] Knightriders  Knightriders is a 1981 American drama film written and directed by George A. Romero and starring Ed Harris, Gary Lahti, Tom Savini, Amy Ingersoll, Patricia Tallman, and Christine Forrest. It was filmed entirely on location in the Pittsburgh metro area, including Fawn Township and Natrona during the summer of 1980.  The film represents a change of pace for Romero, known primarily for his horror films; it is a personal drama about a traveling renaissance fair troupe.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] The Chase (Garth Brooks album)  The Chase is the fourth studio album by American country music artist Garth Brooks. It was released on September 14, 1992, through Liberty Records and sold 403,000 copies in its first week,<ref name="variety"/> "The Chase" debuted at number one on the "Billboard" 200 chart and Top Country Albums chart and has been certified diamond by the RIAA. It was also successful internationally, reaching number one on the UK country albums chart and remained in the top ten for many months.  "Dixie Chicken" is a cover of the classic Little Feat song off of their 1973 album of the same name, while "Night Rider's Lament" is a classic cowboy song that had been previously recorded by Jerry Jeff Walker and Chris LeDoux.
Who was the director of The Night Riders? [SEP] Venky Mysore  Venky Mysore is the CEO of Red Chillies Entertainment and CEO and managing director of the Indian Premier League team Kolkata Knight Riders.<ref>
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP]  You and Me is a 1975 American film directed by David Carradine in his directorial debut and starring Carradine, Bobbi Shaw, Barbara Hershey, and Gary Busey as well as Carradine's brothers Keith Carradine and Robert Carradine.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP]  Festival at Lincoln Center. Mandel went on to become a successful film director, as well as a television series director, having directed Lost, Nash Bridges and The Practice. He was the director of the pilot for The X-Files and the sixth episode of Prison Break. Mandel was the original director hired on for what was then titled Carrie 2: Say You're Sorry but quickly left the production over "creative differences." Katt Shea took over as director for the film, which was eventually released as The Rage: Carrie 2. Mandel was the dean of AFI Conservatory for nine years from 2005 to 2014. He was the first alumnus of the program to be selected a dean.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP]  You And I has been pushed-back severely, but was eventually announced for releases. The film premiered at the 61st Cannes Film Festival in May 2008. On 25 January 2011 You And I premiered in Moscow, Russia. Mischa Barton, the lead actress of the film, decided to show up alongside t.A.T.u. to promote the film. The other lead, Shantel VanSanten, was reported to have been too busy to make an appearance at the premiere. On 16 October 2007, the official t.A.T.u. blog released a preview featuring clips from the film. On 31 January 2012, You and I was released direct-to-dvd in the United States. Then in June 2012, You and I was released on DVD in Australia and New Zealand.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP]  The film tells about two doctors who have not completed their work. One of them realized that he had done wrong and decided to change his life.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP]  the role of Ted Mosby in the show How I Met Your Mother. He made his directorial debut with the film Happythankyoumoreplease ; Tom Kalin – scriptwriter, director, producer, one of the most important representatives of the New Queer Cinema. He also teaches experimental film at European Graduate School in Saas-Fee. ; Colleen Atwood – American costume designer. She worked on such movies as: Edward Scissorhands, Ed Wood, Sweeny Todd, Chicago, Nine, Memoirs of a Geisha and Mars-Attacks! Michael Radford – British director and scriptwriter. He directed Nineteen Eighty-Four, based on George Orwell's novel and The Postman ; Margery Simkin – casting director. She cast such
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP] You (TV series)  You is an American psychological thriller television series based on the books by Caroline Kepnes, developed by Greg Berlanti and Sera Gamble, and produced by Berlanti Productions, Alloy Entertainment, and A+E Studios in association with Warner Horizon Television, now Warner Bros. Television.  The first season, which is based on the novel "You", premiered on Lifetime in September 2018, and follows Joe Goldberg, a bookstore manager and serial killer who falls in love and develops an extreme obsession. The season stars Penn Badgley, Elizabeth Lail, Luca Padovan, Zach Cherry, and Shay Mitchell. Lifetime announced in July 2018 that "You" had been renewed for a second season, based on Kepnes' follow-up novel "Hidden Bodies". The series later moved to Netflix and the second season was released in December 2019. The season follows Joe as he moves to Los Angeles and falls in love with local heiress Love Quinn. For the second season, Ambyr Childers was upgraded to a series regular, joining newly cast Victoria Pedretti, James Scully, Jenna Ortega, and Carmela Zumbado.  In January 2020, the series was renewed for a third season by Netflix, which was released on October 15, 2021. In the third season, Saffron Burrows was upgraded to a series regular, joining newly cast Travis Van Winkle, Shalita Grant, Tati Gabrielle, and Dylan Arnold. In October 2021, ahead of the third season premiere, the series was renewed for a fourth season. The first part of the fourth season is scheduled to premiere on February 9, 2023, with the second part scheduled for release on March 9.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP] Film director  A film director controls a film's artistic and dramatic aspects and visualizes the screenplay (or script) while guiding the film crew and actors in the fulfilment of that vision. The director has a key role in choosing the cast members, production design and all the creative aspects of filmmaking.  The film director gives direction to the cast and crew and creates an overall vision through which a film eventually becomes realized or noticed. Directors need to be able to mediate differences in creative visions and stay within the budget.  There are many pathways to becoming a film director. Some film directors started as screenwriters, cinematographers, producers, film editors or actors. Other film directors have attended a film school. Directors use different approaches. Some outline a general plotline and let the actors improvise dialogue, while others control every aspect and demand that the actors and crew follow instructions precisely. Some directors also write their own screenplays or collaborate on screenplays with long-standing writing partners. Other directors edit or appear in their films or compose the music score for their films.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP] I Know What You Did Last Summer  I Know What You Did Last Summer is a 1997 American slasher film directed by Jim Gillespie, written by Kevin Williamson, and starring Jennifer Love Hewitt, Sarah Michelle Gellar, Ryan Phillippe and Freddie Prinze Jr. It is loosely based on the 1973 novel of the same name by Lois Duncan and is the first installment in the "I Know What You Did Last Summer" franchise. The film centers on four young friends who are stalked by a hook-wielding killer one year after covering up a car accident in which they supposedly killed a man. The film also draws inspiration from the urban legend known as "The Hook" and the 1980s slasher films "Prom Night" (1980) and "The House on Sorority Row" (1982).  Prior to "Scream" Williamson was approached to adapt Duncan's source novel by producer Erik Feig. Where Williamson's screenplay for "Scream" contained prominent elements of satire and self-referentiality, his adaptation of "I Know What You Did Last Summer" reworked the novel's central plot to resemble a straightforward 1980s-era slasher film. After the success of "Scream", the film was rushed into production.  "I Know What You Did Last Summer" was released theatrically on October 17, 1997. It received mixed reviews from critics, but was commercially successful, grossing $125 million worldwide on a budget of $17 million, and remaining number 1 at the U.S. box office for three consecutive weeks. It was also nominated for and won multiple awards.  The film was followed by two sequels, "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer" (1998) and "I'll Always Know What You Did Last Summer" (2006). "I Know What You Did Last Summer" has also been parodied and referenced in popular culture, and credited alongside "Scream" with revitalizing the slasher genre in the 1990s.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP] You People  You People is an upcoming American buddy comedy film directed by Kenya Barris, which he co-wrote with Jonah Hill. The film features an ensemble cast that includes Eddie Murphy, Hill, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, Lauren London, Sam Jay, Molly Gordon, Mike Epps, Nia Long, Deon Cole, Rhea Perlman, and David Duchovny.  "You People" is scheduled to be released on January 27, 2023, by Netflix.
Who was the director of You and I? [SEP] Marcos Siega  Marcos Siega (born June 8, 1969, in New York City) is a film, television, commercial and music video director. He has also worked as a producer, a musician and an artist.  In the late 1980s, he helped to form the New York-based punk band Bad Trip, releasing two full-length records and numerous EPs. When he began directing music videos, many bands and musicians noted that Siega's background in rock music was beneficial. He has worked with bands such as Weezer, System of a Down, P.O.D., Papa Roach, Blink-182 and The All-American Rejects. His 2000 video for Blink-182's "All the Small Things" earned him three MTV Video Music Award nominations and he was nominated for a Grammy Award for his Papa Roach video "Broken Home". In 2001, he signed with the award-winning commercial production company Hungryman Films and moved into the spot world.  Siega went on to direct films and acclaimed television series such as "Dexter", "True Blood", "Cold Case" and "Veronica Mars". In 2008, he directed the pilot and co-executive produced "The Vampire Diaries" which ran for eights seasons on the CW Network. Siega also directed the pilots and was executive producer of "The Following," "Charlie's Angels", "Time after Time", "The Passage" and "God Friended Me".  "Pretty Persuasion", the 2005 film he directed, was nominated for a Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival and won the German Independence Award at the Oldenburg International Film Festival.  Siega married Lisa Goldsmith in 2001. They have three children and live in New York. The family also had a home in the Sunset Strip section of Los Angeles which was sold in November 2010.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]  La cruz is a 1997 Argentine drama film directed by Alejandro Agresti. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]  He was named director of the Argentine Actors' Association and "Action for Culture, Theatre and Visual Arts," a leading advocacy group for its field in Argentina. This work led to his appointment as National Theatres Director in 1995, a position he leveraged to help have Congress pass the "National Theatre Law" in 1998. The bill helped protect struggling stages against demolition and guaranteed annual subsidies for the art. Lito Cruz continued his work as head of the drama school that now bears his name, while having accepted more starring roles in film. Some of the most notable have been that of
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]  La cruz y la espada is a 1934 American Spanish language drama film directed by Frank Strayer, which stars José Mojica, Juan Torena, and Anita Campillo. The screenplay was written by Paul Schofield and William DuBois from a story by Miguel de Zárraga.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]  Lito Cruz (May 14, 1941 – December 19, 2017) was a prominent Argentine stage director and motion picture actor.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP] Norman Briski - Alfredo ; Mirta Busnelli - Eloisa ; Carlos Roffé - Pablo ; Laura Melillo - Claudia ; Harry Havilio ; Silvana Silveri ; Sebastián Polonski ; Silvana Ramírez ; Pascual Condito ; Alejandro Agresti
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP] Khavn De La Cruz  Khavn De La Cruz (also known as KHAVN) is a Filipino poet, singer, songwriter, pianist and filmmaker.  He is the founder and festival director of MOV International Film, Music and Literature Festival. Considered the father of Philippine digital filmmaking, Khavn has made 47 features and 112 short films since 1994. His 46th feature, "Ruined Heart", is lensed by Christopher Doyle and features Tadanobu Asano and Nathalia Acevedo. It premiered in official competition at the 27th Tokyo International Film Festival.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP] The Criminal Life of Archibaldo de la Cruz  The Criminal Life of Archibaldo de la Cruz (original Spanish title: Ensayo de un crimen, "Rehearsal for a Murder") is a 1955 Mexican crime film by Spanish-born writer-director Luis Buñuel. It focuses on a would-be serial killer whose plans, although elaborate, never result in an actual murder.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP] Zulema de la Cruz  Zulema de la Cruz Castillejo (born 9 March 1958) is a Spanish pianist and composer.
Who was the director of La cruz? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP]  The Nest is an 1988 American science-fiction horror film directed by Terence H. Winkless in his directorial debut. Based on the 1980 novel of the same name by Eli Cantor (published under the pseudonym Gregory A. Douglas), the film's screenplay was written by Robert King. The film was produced by Julie Corman and stars Robert Lansing, Lisa Langlois, Franc Luz, and Terri Treas. The Nest takes place in a small New England town that is overrun by genetically engineered killer cockroaches. The local sheriff (Luz) joins forces with his former girlfriend (Langlois) and a pest control agent (Stephen Davies) to defeat the insects. The film was released in the United States on May 13, 1988, by Concorde Pictures, and received mixed reviews from critics.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP]  Love Nest is a 1951 American comedy-drama film directed by Joseph Newman and starring June Haver, William Lundigan, Frank Fay, and Marilyn Monroe. The post-World War II comedy features an early supporting role for Monroe. It is one of the few films future Tonight Show host Jack Paar made prior to his television career, and the last film appearance by Fay, who had been a popular stage comedian in the 1920s and revived his career starring in the long-running Broadway comedy Harvey. It was also the last appearance by silent star Leatrice Joy. The film borrows its name from the song "Love Nest" with music by Louis Hirsch and lyrics by Otto A. Harbach. The song is sung by a chorus over the opening credits and was used as a theme song for The Burns and Allen Show on both radio and TV.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP] Gene Gerrard - George ; Camilla Horn - Fifi ; Nancy Burne - Angela ; Gus McNaughton - Fox ; Garry Marsh - Hugo ; Amy Veness - Ma ; Charles Paton - Pa ; Marian Dawson - Mrs. Drinkwater ; Judy Kelly - Girl
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP]  On the eve of his own marriage, a man offers shelter to a runaway wife with whom he strikes up an unexpected bond.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP]  In order to escape from his life and his lost love, Keaton sets off on his small boat, Cupid, but runs into the whaling ship, The Love Nest. The whaler's merciless captain (Joe Roberts) throws crew members overboard for even the slightest offense. After his steward accidentally pours hot tea over the captain's hand, the captain tosses him overboard and replaces him with Keaton. Despite a series of mishaps, Keaton manages to avoid the fate of other crewmen.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP] The Love Nest (1922 film)  The Love Nest () is a 1922 German silent film directed by Rudolf Walther-Fein and starring Paul Wegener, Reinhold Schünzel, and Lyda Salmonova. It was released in two parts.  The film's sets were designed by the art director Rochus Gliese.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP] One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (film)  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a 1975 American psychological comedy drama film directed by Miloš Forman, based on the 1962 novel of the same name by Ken Kesey. The film stars Jack Nicholson who plays a new patient at a mental institution alongside Louise Fletcher who plays an austere nurse. It also features a supporting cast of Will Sampson, Danny DeVito, Sydney Lassick, William Redfield, as well as Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif in their film debuts.  Filming began in January 1975 and lasted three months, taking place on location in Salem, Oregon, and the surrounding area, as well as Depoe Bay on the north Oregon coast. The producers decided to shoot the film in the Oregon State Hospital, an actual mental hospital, as this was also the setting of the novel. The hospital is still in operation (as of 2022), though the original buildings seen in the film have been demolished. The film released on November 19, 1975. Considered by many to be one of the greatest films ever made, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" is No. 33 on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.  The film was the second to win all five major Academy Awards (Best Picture, Actor in Lead Role, Actress in Lead Role, Director, and Screenplay) following "It Happened One Night" in 1934, an accomplishment not repeated until 1991 with "The Silence of the Lambs". It also won numerous Golden Globe and BAFTA Awards. In 1993, the film was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the United States Library of Congress, and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP] Too Many Clients  Too Many Clients is a Nero Wolfe detective novel by Rex Stout, published by the Viking Press in 1960, and later collected in the omnibus volume "Three Aces" (Viking 1971).
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP] Louis Hirsch  Louis Achille Hirsch, also known as Louis A. Hirsch and Lou Hirsch (November 28, 1887 – May 13, 1924), was an American composer of songs and musicals in the early 20th century.
Who was the director of The Love Nest? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP]  Resolved is a 2007 documentary film concerning the world of high school policy debate. The film was written and directed by Greg Whiteley of New York Doll fame. The film captured the "Audience Award" title at its debut on June 23, 2007 at the Los Angeles Film Festival. The film was produced by One Potato Productions. The film made its television debut on HBO in the summer of 2008 and subsequently received two Emmy nominations: one nomination for Best Documentary; the other for Editing for the 2009 Emmy Awards held in September 2009. In July 2009, it was released on DVD by Image Entertainment.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP]  Control was registered with The Charity Commission in London in 1981. In 1984, he became the director of the Institute for Negotiation and Conciliation, registered with The Charity Commission. Trustees included Sir Peter Blaker and General Sir Hugh Beach. From 1983 to 1988, he founded and served as director of The Foundation for International Conciliation, based in Geneva. He led confidential negotiations with political leaders in many parts of the world to resolve national and international conflicts. The foundation was registered in the Canton of Geneva. Foundation board members included Ambassador Olivier Long former Swiss Ambassador to London and Ambassador :Felix Schnyder former Swiss Ambassador to Washington and UN
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP]  Author and venture capital entrepreneur Mehrdad Baghai, a member of the Initiative, was short-listed as a finalist for the first Aspen Institute, John P. McNulty Prize in 2008, and ultimately was the winner of the award in 2018, the prize's eleventh year, citing extraordinary leadership. High Resolves won the 2015 Patrons Prize in the national Good Design Awards.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP]  the five-year rule as one way to help assemble his own team, just as Jack Vaughn had done when he became director in 1966. "The loudest and most outraged of political partisanship came in 1971 when Blatchford used an important Peace Corps policy, generally ignored by his predecessor, to terminate nearly one hundred staff members, including twenty-seven country directors. The rule was instituted to ensure that the agency would never suffer the fate of other government bureaucracies: premature calcification resulting from an aged and spent permanent staff." Author P. David Searles says that Shriver's concerns about finding "competent overseas directors" proved groundless.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP]  The Resolve is a 1915 American silent short drama film directed by Henry Otto starring Ed Coxen, Lizette Thorne, and Winifred Greenwood.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP] Tom Frieden  Thomas R. Frieden (born December 7, 1960) is an American infectious disease and public health physician. He serves as president and CEO of Resolve to Save Lives, a $225million, five-year initiative to prevent epidemics and cardiovascular disease.  He was the director of the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and he was the administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry from 2009 to 2017, appointed by President Barack Obama.  As a commissioner of the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene from 2002 to 2009 he came to some prominence for banning smoking in the city's restaurants as well as the serving of trans fat.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP] 1984 (advertisement)  "1984" is an American television commercial that introduced the Apple Macintosh personal computer. It was conceived by Steve Hayden, Brent Thomas and Lee Clow at Chiat/Day, produced by New York production company Fairbanks Films, and directed by Ridley Scott. English athlete Anya Major performed as the unnamed heroine and David Graham as Big Brother. In the US, it first aired in 10 local outlets, including Twin Falls, Idaho, where Chiat/Day ran the ad on December 31, 1983, at the last possible break before midnight on KMVT, so that the advertisement qualified for the 1984 Clio Awards. Its second televised airing, and only US national airing, was on January 22, 1984, during a break in the third quarter of the telecast of Super Bowl XVIII by CBS.  In one interpretation of the commercial, "1984" used the unnamed heroine to represent the coming of the Macintosh (indicated by her white tank top with a stylized line drawing of Apple’s Macintosh computer on it) as a means of saving humanity from "conformity" (Big Brother). These images were an allusion to George Orwell's noted 1949 novel, "Nineteen Eighty-Four", which described a dystopian future ruled by a televised "Big Brother". The estate of George Orwell and the television rightsholder to the novel "Nineteen Eighty-Four" considered the commercial to be a copyright infringement and sent a cease-and-desist letter to Apple and Chiat/Day in April 1984.  Originally a subject of contention within Apple, it has subsequently been called a watershed event and a masterpiece in advertising. In 1995, The Clio Awards added it to its Hall of Fame, and "Advertising Age" placed it on the top of its list of 50 greatest commercials.<ref name="nyt1995adage"/>  In January 1984, Apple also launched the inventé advertisement for Macintosh in France.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP] Tales of the Jedi (TV series)  Tales of the Jedi, also marketed as Star Wars: Tales of the Jedi, It is part of the "Star Wars" franchise, exploring different Jedi characters from the prequel trilogy era. The series was produced by Lucasfilm Animation, with Charles Murray as head writer and Filoni as supervising director, for the streaming service Disney+.  Filoni began writing the series while working on the "Star Wars" series "The Mandalorian", and revealed the first official details about it in May 2022. It consists of six episodes split into two "paths", one following the character Ahsoka Tano and the other depicting the character Count Dooku, with the final episode loosely adapting the events of the 2016 novel "" by E. K. Johnston. Ashley Eckstein, Corey Burton, Janina Gavankar, Micheál Richardson, TC Carson, Ian McDiarmid, Liam Neeson, Bryce Dallas Howard, Phil LaMarr, Clancy Brown, Matt Lanter, James Arnold Taylor, and Dee Bradley Baker provide voices for the series, which uses the same animation style as Filoni's previous series, "".  All episodes of "Tales of the Jedi" were released on Disney+ on October 26, 2022, to generally favorable reviews.
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP] The Glorious Resolve  The Glorious Resolve: Death Before Disgrace is a 2011 Pakistani documentary film made by the Inter-Services Public Relations department of the Pakistan Armed Forces. The film stars Hamza Ali Abbasi, Hassan Waqas Rana and Bilal Lashari in leading roles. The executive director was Brig Syed Mujtaba Tirmizi, whereas it was written by Irfan Aziz. It was created specifically to counter Taliban and al-Qaeda propaganda videos by depicting the army and the fight against terror in a positive light.  "Glorious Resolve" won Jury special award in the recently held International film festival "Eserciti-e-Popoli" held at Bracciano, Italy. The festival saw the participation of NATO and 24 other countries with 60 films produced by renowned film makers which were evaluated by qualified and reputed jury. "Glorious Resolve" received the medal from the Chairman of the Italian Senate with the citation "A technically outstanding and emotionally powerful dramatization of the story of courageous soldier under fire in combat situation".
Who was the director of The Resolve? [SEP] Director of the Joint Staff  The director of the Joint Staff (DJS) is a three-star officer who assists the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a cabinet of senior military officers within the United States Armed Forces who advise the secretary of defense and the president on military matters. The director assists the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in managing the Joint Staff and with the management and organization of the staff's members. The director also chairs meetings of the Operations Deputies, a subsidiary body comprising the director and a three-star delegate from each service who preview or resolve issues before they are escalated to the four-star level of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.  The director of the Joint Staff is selected by the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with the other members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and subject to the approval of the secretary of defense.<ref name=responsibility/> As with all three- and four-star positions, the director's appointment is subject to presidential nomination and Senate confirmation.  The position of Director is considered one of the most desirable three-star positions in the United States military establishment, for the position has historically served as a stepping stone to a four-star position. As of June 2022, 37 of the 48 past directors and one past acting director, have been promoted to four-star rank. Many of them have been promoted to four-star rank within a year of leaving the position.  The current director of the Joint Staff is Lieutenant General James J. Mingus.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP]  Out is the seventh film in Pixar's "SparkShorts" program. It was directed and written by Steven Clay Hunter, known for animation work on Finding Nemo and WALL-E, and produced by Max Sachar, known for his work on Coco and Toy Story 3.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP]  the next editor-in-chief. Despite editorial changes, the parent company and magazine were still rife with financial issues and frequent complaints from freelancers and contract employees. Picardi left Out in December 2019, announcing his abrupt departure via Twitter. In December 2018, Raquel Willis was appointed as executive editor, becoming the first trans woman to take on a leadership position at the publication. While at Out, Willis won a GLAAD Media Award for Outstanding Magazine Article for "The Trans Obituaries Project". In September 2020, David Artavia was appointed as the magazine's new editor-in-chief. In January 17, 2020 Diane-Anderson-Minshall was named CEO of Pride Media and later that year became the Editorial Director of OUT.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP]  Out is a 2002 Japanese film directed by Hideyuki Hirayama.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP]  In August 2018, Pride Media Inc. announced Picardi as the new editor-in-chief of Out. Picardi was let go from Out in December 2019, describing it as “the most complex chapter of my career so far”.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP]  finished in 1977, was on its surface a very simple idea answering the simple question, "Who Are We?" For the film, I, and the five other principle [sic] people I worked with spent a year doing research interviews on videotape of 250 lesbians and gay men all across the country. In the end, twenty-two were chosen to tell their stories in the film. Word Is Out took five years, over 200 interviews, and six co-directors to make. Documentary filmmaker Peter Adair came up with the idea for the film. According to Adair:   The directors of the film, collectively known as the Mariposa Film Group,
Who was the director of Out? [SEP] Scott Cooper (director)  Scott Cooper (born April 20, 1970) is an American director, screenwriter, producer and actor. He is known for writing and directing "Crazy Heart" (2009), "Out of the Furnace" (2013), "Black Mass" (2015), "Hostiles" (2017).
Who was the director of Out? [SEP] Jordan Peele  Jordan Haworth Peele (born February 21, 1979) is an American actor, comedian, and filmmaker. He is best known for his film and television work in the comedy and horror genres. Peele started his career in sketch comedy before transiting his career as a writer and director of psychological horror and satirical films. In 2017, Peele was included on the annual "Time" 100 list of the most influential people in the world.  Peele's breakout role came in 2003, when he was hired as a cast member on the Fox sketch comedy series "Mad TV", where he spent five seasons, leaving the show in 2008. In the following years, he and his frequent "Mad TV" collaborator, Keegan-Michael Key, created and starred in their own Comedy Central sketch comedy series "Key & Peele" (2012–2015). The series was critically acclaimed, winning two Primetime Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award. The two wrote, produced, and starred in the comedy film "Keanu" (2016) and appeared in various projects since.  His 2017 directorial debut, the horror film "Get Out", was a critical and box office success, for which he received numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, along with nominations for Best Picture and Best Director. Critics have frequently named "Get Out" as one of the best films of the 21st century. He received another Academy Award nomination for Best Picture for producing Spike Lee's drama "BlacKkKlansman" (2018). He directed, wrote, and produced the acclaimed films "Us" (2019) and "Nope" (2022). He founded the film and television production company Monkeypaw Productions in 2012. He wrote and produced "Candyman" (2021), and "Wendell and Wild" (2022).  Peele has also voice acted in the animated film "" (2017) and in the adult animated sitcom "Big Mouth" (2017–present). He co-created the TBS comedy series "The Last O.G." (2018–2022) and the YouTube Premium comedy series "Weird City" (2019). He also served as the host and producer of the CBS All Access revival of the anthology series "The Twilight Zone" (2019–2020).
Who was the director of Out? [SEP] Get Out  Get Out is a 2017 American psychological horror film written, co-produced, and directed by Jordan Peele in his directorial debut. It stars Daniel Kaluuya, Allison Williams, Lil Rel Howery, LaKeith Stanfield, Bradley Whitford, Caleb Landry Jones, Stephen Root, and Catherine Keener. The plot follows a young black man (Kaluuya), who uncovers shocking secrets when he meets the family of his white girlfriend (Williams).  Principal photography began in February 2016 in Fairhope, Alabama, then moved to Barton Academy and the Ashland Place Historic District in Mobile, Alabama. The entire film was shot in 23 days.  "Get Out" premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2017, and was theatrically released in the United States on February 24, 2017, by Universal Pictures. The film received critical acclaim for its screenplay, direction, acting, and social critiques. It was a major commercial success, grossing $255 million worldwide on a $4.5 million budget, with a net profit of $124.3 million, making it the tenth-most profitable film of 2017.  It was chosen by the National Board of Review, the American Film Institute, and "Time" as one of the top ten films of the year. Peele won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay at the 90th Academy Awards, with additional nominations for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor (Kaluuya). It also earned five nominations at the 23rd Critics' Choice Awards, two at the 75th Golden Globe Awards, and two at the 71st British Academy Film Awards.  "Get Out" has maintained a strong reputation since its release, and it is commonly cited by critics as one of the best films of the 21st century, featuring in multiple listings of the best films of the 2010s.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP] Out of Africa (film)  Out of Africa is a 1985 American epic romantic drama film directed and produced by Sydney Pollack, and starring Meryl Streep and Robert Redford. The film is based loosely on the 1937 autobiographical book "Out of Africa" written by Isak Dinesen (the pseudonym of Danish author Karen Blixen), with additional material from Dinesen's 1960 book "Shadows on the Grass" and other sources.  The book was adapted into a screenplay by the writer Kurt Luedtke, and filmed in 1984. Streep played Karen Blixen, Redford played Denys Finch Hatton, and Klaus Maria Brandauer played Baron Bror Blixen. Others in the film include Michael Kitchen as Berkeley Cole, Malick Bowens as Farah, Stephen Kinyanjui as the Chief, Michael Gough as Lord Delamere, Suzanna Hamilton as Felicity, and the model and actress Iman as Mariammo. The film received generally positive reviews from critics. It was also a commercial success and won seven Academy Awards including Best Picture and Best Director for Pollack.
Who was the director of Out? [SEP] Sydney Pollack  Sydney Irwin Pollack (July 1, 1934 – May 26, 2008) was an American film director, producer and actor. Pollack directed more than 20 films and 10 television shows, acted in over 30 movies or shows and produced over 44 films. For his film "Out of Africa" (1985), Pollack won the Academy Award for Best Director and Best Picture. He was also nominated for Best Director Oscars for "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?" (1969) and "Tootsie" (1982).  Some of his other best-known works include "Jeremiah Johnson" (1972), "The Way We Were" (1973), "Three Days of the Condor" (1975) and "Absence of Malice" (1981). His subsequent films included "Havana" (1990), "The Firm" (1993), "The Interpreter" (2005), and he produced and acted in "Michael Clayton" (2007). Pollack also made appearances in Robert Altman's Hollywood mystery "The Player" (1992), Woody Allen's relationship drama "Husbands and Wives" (1993), and Stanley Kubrick's erotic psychological drama "Eyes Wide Shut" (1999).
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] Produced by Marvin Holtzman ; Arranged and conducted by Ray Ellis
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP]  While There's War There's Hope (Finché c'è guerra c'è speranza) is a 1974 satirical Commedia all'italiana film written, directed and starring Alberto Sordi. A top-level tragicomedy, the movie was so successful in Italy that its title has become a proverb.
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] Double Jeopardy (1992) Producer/Director ; I Love My Friends (1985 Kris Kardashian music video) Director ; The Man Who Skied Down Everest (1975 documentary) USA Director ; Lenny (1974) Material supplier ; Soon There Will Be No More Me (1972 documentary) Producer/Director ; Lady Sings The Blues (1972) Titles/Still montage director ; The American Dreamer (1971 documentary) Producer/Co-Director/Writer ; The Lexington Experience (1971 documentary) Producer/Director ; Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969) Still montage director
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP]  Culture Against Time". "The Lambousa Kingdom" is a novel published by Destek Publishing House and it is available for sale with both e-book and paperback versions all over the world. "While There Is Time" - 2011: A novel about the reality of life and trade after World War II and also the story of two brothers, who created a commercial adventure for over 70 years, achieving success while going through hard periods of the history. "While There is Time" is a work of the author that you can find all of the details of the Flaubert School it represents, which have been started with the novel "Autumn" and showed itself
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP]  Figure banner executive produced, as well as a non-fiction book Rumspringa by Tom Shachtman (Farrar, Straus and Giroux, 2007). "American Masters: Willie Nelson: Still is Still Moving" (2004) – Director/Producer: An inside look at an American icon as he deals with two families, his relations and his nearly lifelong bandmates. What Remains (2005) Director/Producer: Studies a further project of Mann’s, a provocative photo series exploring the way in which nature assimilates the body once life has left it, directly confronting American attitudes towards death. The film screened first at The Sundance Film Festival in 2006 before premiering on HBO. loudQUIETloud (2006) Director/Producer: Follows the ups and downs of alternative music group The Pixies in
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] On the Beach (1959 film)  On the Beach is a 1959 American post-apocalyptic science fiction drama film from United Artists, produced and directed by Stanley Kramer, that stars Gregory Peck, Ava Gardner, Fred Astaire, and Anthony Perkins. This black-and-white film is based on Nevil Shute's 1957 novel of the same name depicting the aftermath of a nuclear war. Unlike in the novel, no one is assigned blame for starting the war; the film hints that global annihilation may have arisen from an accident or misjudgment.
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP]
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] SpongeBob SquarePants  SpongeBob SquarePants (or simply SpongeBob) is an American animated comedy television series created by marine science educator and animator Stephen Hillenburg for Nickelodeon. It chronicles the adventures of the title character and his aquatic friends in the fictional underwater city of Bikini Bottom. The fifth-longest-running American animated series, its high popularity has made it a media franchise. It is the highest rated Nickelodeon series and the most profitable property for Paramount Consumer Products, generating over $13 billion in merchandising revenue as of 2019.  Many of the series's ideas originated in "The Intertidal Zone", an unpublished educational comic book Hillenburg created in 1989 to teach his students about undersea life. He began developing "SpongeBob SquarePants" into a television series in 1996, and in 1997, a seven-minute pilot was pitched to Nickelodeon. The network's executives wanted SpongeBob to be a child in school, but Hillenburg preferred SpongeBob to be an adult character. He was prepared to abandon the series, but compromised by creating Mrs. Puff and her boating school so SpongeBob could attend school as an adult.  Nickelodeon aired a preview for the series in the United States on May 1, 1999, after the airing of the 1999 Kids' Choice Awards. The series officially premiered on July 17, 1999. It gained enormous popularity by its second season, and has subsequently received worldwide critical acclaim. The thirteenth season began in October 2020, and the series was renewed for a fourteenth season on March 24, 2022. It has inspired three feature films: "The SpongeBob SquarePants Movie" (2004), "" (2015), and "" (2020). Two spin-off series, "" and "The Patrick Star Show", premiered in 2021. As of February 2022, four additional films are planned: three character spinoff films for Paramount+, and a new theatrical "SpongeBob" film.  "SpongeBob SquarePants" has won a variety of awards including six Annie Awards, eight Golden Reel Awards, four Emmy Awards, 19 Kids' Choice Awards, and two BAFTA Children's Awards. A Broadway musical based on it opened in 2017 to critical acclaim.
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] Mark Felt  William Mark Felt Sr. (August 17, 1913 – December 18, 2008) was an American law enforcement officer who worked for the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) from 1942 to 1973 and was known for his role in the Watergate scandal. Felt was an FBI special agent who eventually rose to the position of Associate Director, the Bureau's second-highest-ranking post. Felt worked in several FBI field offices prior to his promotion to the Bureau's headquarters. In 1980, he was convicted of having violated the civil rights of people thought to be associated with members of the Weather Underground, by ordering FBI agents to break into their homes and search the premises as part of an attempt to prevent bombings. He was ordered to pay a fine, but was pardoned by President Ronald Reagan during his appeal.  In 2005, at age 91, Felt revealed to "Vanity Fair" magazine that during his tenure as associate director of the FBI he had been the notorious anonymous source known as "Deep Throat", who provided "The Washington Post" reporters Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein with critical information about the Watergate scandal, which ultimately led to the resignation of President Richard Nixon in 1974. Though Felt's identity as Deep Throat was suspected, including by Nixon himself, it had generally remained a secret for 30 years. Felt finally acknowledged that he was Deep Throat after being persuaded by his daughter to reveal his identity before his death.<ref name="i'm the guy" />  Felt published two memoirs: "The FBI Pyramid" in 1979 (updated in 2006) and "A G-Man's Life", written with John O'Connor in 2006. In 2012, the FBI released Felt's personnel file covering the period from 1941 to 1978. The agency also released files pertaining to an extortion threat made against Felt in 1956.
Who was the director of While There is Still Time? [SEP] There Will Be Blood  There Will Be Blood is a 2007 American period drama film written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson, loosely based on the 1927 novel "Oil!" by Upton Sinclair. It stars Daniel Day-Lewis as Daniel Plainview, a silver miner turned oilman on a ruthless quest for wealth during Southern California's oil boom of the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Paul Dano, Kevin J. O'Connor, Ciarán Hinds, and Dillon Freasier co-star.  The film was produced by Ghoulardi Film Company and distributed by Paramount Vantage and Miramax Films. At the 2008 Berlin International Film Festival it won the Silver Bear Award for Best Director and a Special Artistic Contribution Award for Jonny Greenwood's score. It grossed $76.2 million worldwide on a $25 million budget.  "There Will Be Blood" received acclaim for its cinematography, direction, screenplay, score, and the performances of Day-Lewis and Dano. Day-Lewis won the Academy Award, BAFTA, Golden Globe, Screen Actors Guild, NYFCC and IFTA Best Leading Actor awards for the role. It has been widely regarded by critics as one of the greatest films of the 21st century, and it appeared on many critics' "top ten" lists for 2007, including the American Film Institute, the National Society of Film Critics, the , and the Los Angeles Film Critics Association. At the 80th Academy Awards, the film was nominated for eight Oscars (tying with another Miramax/Paramount Vantage co-production "No Country for Old Men"). The nominations included Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay for Anderson. Along with Day-Lewis' Oscar for Best Actor, Robert Elswit won the award for Best Cinematography.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP]  Den store gavtyv is a 1956 Danish comedy film directed by Johan Jacobsen and starring Dirch Passer.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP]  Nils R. Müller (17 January 1921 &ndash; 6 March 2007) was a Norwegian film director. He was born in Shanghai. His debut was Så møtes vi imorgen (1946), and he broke through with the comedy Vi gifter oss (1951). Later films include Skøytekongen (1953), Kasserer Jensen (1954), Kvinnens plass (1956), Det store varpet (1960), Tonny (1962), Elskere (1963), Broder Gabrielsen (1966), and Min Marion (1975). Det store varpet was entered into the 2nd Moscow International Film Festival. He directed 21 films in total, and was awarded the Amanda Committee's Honorary Award in 1996. Nils R. Müller was the brother of the Stalag Luft III POW escapee Jens Müller.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Tatyana Dogileva as Nadezhda, shopgirl ; Andrey Mironov as Nikolay Gavrilovich Poryvaev, scientist-astronomer ; Mark Prudkin as Gavrila Maksimovich, Nikolay's father ; Yevgeniya Khanayeva as Tatyana Vasilyevna, Nikolay's mother ; Yelena Solovey as Regina, Nikolay's former bride ; Anatoly Slivnikov as Gena 'Crocodile', Nadezhda's brother ; Baadur Tsuladze as Rashid Rashidovich, head of meat department store ; Anatoly Ravikovich as store clerk ; Aleksei Zharkov as store clerk (voice by Yevgeny Kindinov) ; Pavel Kadochnikov as Ogurtsov, scientist-astronomer, Nikolay's chief (voice by Igor Efimov)
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP]  entitled 'The Department Store'. Produced by Richard Macer, it was about independent department stores and how they are surviving in the modern world in the face of stiff competition from chain stores. The first programme in the series, on Milners, was filmed by the BBC from September 2007 to April 2008. It was initially shown on BBC Four on 17 November 2008 and subsequently on BBC Two on 7 April 2009. David Milner, who was featured in the programme, has retired and even assisted with a charity expedition to the Gambia in January 2010. His daughter, Leonie, with her husband, Keith Garrard, are now Managing Directors of the store which continues to trade after 130 years of serving the Dales.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP]  the first season when presenting was Alan Badoev and Zhanna Badoeva, Synelnykov became the permanent director of the program. Later, Yevgen became the director of "Oryol i Reshka. Shopping". As a presenting Yevgen Synelnykov tried recently: the fall of the 2014, when he had to Bordeaux to replace in the frame is late to the plane Kolya Serga. February 2015, the show started the 10th season of the program "Oryol i Reshka", where Yevgen attended. August 2015 aired the second part of this season, where Yevgen was a co-presenter. December 2015 Yevgen went on a trip around the world with the TV show, which lasted 9 months.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Johan Jacobsen  Johan Jacobsen (born 14 March 1912 in Aarhus – died 7 July 1972 in Copenhagen) was a Danish film director. His parents were theatre manager Jacob Jørgen Jacobsen (1865-1955) and actress Christel Holch (1886-1968).  From the 1940s Jacobsen directed a number of both popular and critically acclaimed films for the film studio Palladium.  From 1947 onwards he was an independent director and producer. He produced his own films and those of his partner Annelise Hovmand (1924-2016) at his own film studio Flamingo.  In 1959 he was a member of the jury at the 9th Berlin International Film Festival.  His A Stranger Knocks (1959) was in competition at the San Francisco International Film Festival 1960. It was distributed in the US by Trans-Lux and played a major part in bringing down the American State Film Censorship system in 1965.  In his last years Jacobsen worked for tycoon Simon Spies (1921-1984) at his cinema Merkur Bio in Copenhagen.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Den store gavtyv  Den store gavtyv is a 1956 Danish comedy film directed by Johan Jacobsen and starring Dirch Passer.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Asbjørn Andersen  Asbjørn Andersen (30 August 1903 – 12 December 1978) was a Danish film actor and director. He appeared in more than 90 films between 1930 and 1976. He also directed nine films between 1946 and 1952.  He was born in Copenhagen, Denmark and died in Denmark.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Oscar Ljung  Oscar Ljung (6 September 1909 – 29 April 1999) was a Swedish film actor. He appeared in more than 40 films between 1935 and 1983. He was born in Landskrona, Sweden.
Who was the director of Den store gavtyv? [SEP] Henry Nielsen (actor)  Henry Nielsen (1 November 1890 – 12 May 1967) was a Danish stage and film actor.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP] The first medical director of the hospital was Dr. J. Berkely Gorden. He started at the inception of the hospital and retired in 1962. ; Dr. D. W. McCreight was acting director and appointed to fill the seat till a permanent medical director could be located following the retirement of Dr. Gorden. His tenure was from 1962 to 1963. ; He was replaced by Dr. Robert P, Nenno. Dr Nenno started as medical director in 1963 and was there till 1968. Prior to his appointment at Marlboro Hospital, he was a chairman of Medicine at Seton Hall College. ; Dr. Michael R. Simon was medical director from 1968 to 1973. ; Dr. Harold J. Knobb, took over as acting medical director at the resignation of Dr. Simon. He served from 1973 to 1974. ; Dr Herbert Saexinger became medical director in 1974
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP]  A medical director is a physician who provides guidance and leadership on the use of medicine in a healthcare organization. These include the emergency medical services, hospital departments, blood banks, clinical teaching services and others. A medical director devises the protocols and guidelines for the clinical staff and evaluates them while they are in use.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP]  of NHS England is to "turn taxpayers money into good clinical outcomes". Following the Lansley reforms of the NHS, he was appointed National Medical Director in NHS England from 2013, where he is responsible for promoting a focus on quality, clinical leadership and innovation. To facilitate these aims he was responsible for overseeing the establishment of Academic Health Science Networks, Strategic Clinical Networks and Clinical Senates. He put clinicians at the heart of NHS England through the Chief Pharmaceutical, Dental, Scientific and Allied Health Professions officers, a primary care deputy, a medical director for specialised commissioning, regional medical directors and pharmacists, area medical directors, over 20 expert national clinical
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP]  As medical director of the NHS (2007–13) he was a director general in the Department of Health where he led the Medical Directorate, which had oversight for clinical policy and strategy in the NHS. This included the work of the National Clinical Directors and their associated strategies such as those for coronary heart disease, stroke, cancer, respiratory disease, renal disease, liver disease, trauma, and transplantation. He established the Healthcare Quality Improvement Partnership (HQIP)a joint venture between the Academy of Medical Royal Colleges and the Royal College of Nursing to develop and run the national clinical audits. Keogh's role also included oversight of
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP]  1976. ; Dr. Charles Webber, became acting medical director in 1976 when Dr. Saexinger resigned and was in office till 1977 when a replacement was found. ; Roy S. Ettlinger - chief executive officer from 1977 to 1983. He left the job to become director of a hospital in Boston. ; Dr. David Sorensen was chief executive officer from 1984 to 1987, when he was removed from office following allegations of patient abuse, staff neglect and sexual assaults while he was in charge. ; Dr. Michael Ross was the acting chief executive officer at the hospital starting in 1987. Dr. Ross was the chief executive officer at Graystone Park Hospital prior to this post. ; Dr. Norbert Binkowski was the Clinical Director from 1978 to 1990. Given the length of the hospital's operation; the hospital saw a number of medical directors:
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP] Medical director  A medical director is a physician who provides guidance and leadership on the use of medicine in a healthcare organization. These include the emergency medical services, hospital departments, blood banks, clinical teaching services and others. A medical director devises the protocols and guidelines for the clinical staff and evaluates them while they are in use.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP] Francis Collins  Francis Sellers Collins (born April 14, 1950) is an American physician-geneticist who discovered the genes associated with a number of diseases and led the Human Genome Project. He is the former director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in Bethesda, Maryland, from 17 August 2009 to 19 December 2021, serving under three presidents, and for over 12 years.<ref name="hhs"/><ref name="WaPo" />  Before being appointed director of the NIH, Collins led the Human Genome Project and other genomics research initiatives as director of the National Human Genome Research Institute (NHGRI), one of the 27 institutes and centers at NIH. Before joining NHGRI, he earned a reputation as an LSU Fan at the University of Michigan. He has been elected to the Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences, and has received the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the National Medal of Science.  Collins also has written a number of books on science, medicine, and religion, including the "New York Times" bestseller, "". After leaving the directorship of NHGRI and before becoming director of the NIH, he founded and served as president of The BioLogos Foundation, which promotes discourse on the relationship between science and religion and advocates the perspective that belief in Christianity can be reconciled with acceptance of evolution and science, especially through the idea that the Creator brought about his plan through the processes of evolution. In 2009, Pope Benedict XVI appointed Collins to the Pontifical Academy of Sciences.  On October 5, 2021, Collins announced that he would resign as NIH director by the end of the year.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP] Anthony Fauci  Anthony Stephen Fauci ( ; born December 24, 1940) is an American physician-scientist and immunologist who served as the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID) from 1984 to 2022, and the chief medical advisor to the president from 2021 to 2022.  As a physician with the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Fauci has served the American public health sector in various capacities for more than fifty years and has acted as an advisor to every U.S. president since Ronald Reagan. He has been director of the NIAID since 1984 and has made contributions to HIV/AIDS research and other immunodeficiency diseases, both as a research scientist and as the head of the NIAID. In 2008, President George W. Bush awarded him the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States, for his work on the AIDS relief program PEPFAR.  During the COVID-19 pandemic, he served under President Donald Trump as one of the lead members of the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Fauci's advice was frequently contradicted by Trump, and Trump's supporters alleged that Fauci was trying to politically undermine Trump's run for reelection. After Joe Biden took office, Fauci began serving as one of the lead members of the White House COVID-19 Response Team and as Biden's chief medical advisor.  On August 22, 2022, Fauci announced he will be stepping down from government service in December. Fauci stepped down on December 31.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP] Rochelle Walensky  Rochelle Paula Walensky (née Bersoff; born April 5, 1969) is an American physician-scientist who is the director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the administrator of the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Prior to her appointment at the CDC, she was the Chief of the Division of Infectious Diseases at Massachusetts General Hospital and a professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School. Walensky is an expert on HIV/AIDS.
Who was the director of The Physician? [SEP]
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP]  El Último perro is a 1956 Argentine film directed by Lucas Demare. It was entered into the 1956 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] La rosa del desierto (1921) ; Almas tropicales (1924) ; El Cristo de oro (1926) ; Conspiración (1927) ; El coloso de mármol (1929) ; Águilas de América (1933) ; Judas (1936) ; The Tragic Circus (1939) ; La canción del huérfano (1940) ; La última aventura de Chaflán (1942) ; De Nueva York a Huipanguillo (1943) La insaciable (1947) ; Zorina (1949) ; La mujer que yo perdí (1949) ; Ultraje al amor (1956) ; Tizoc (1957) ; Pueblo en armas (1959) ; ¡Viva la soldadera! (1960) ; The Happy Musketeers (1961) ; La tórtola del Ajusco (1962) The Law of the North (1918) ; Rustling a Bride (1919) ; The Man Who Turned White (1919) ; Pinto (1920) ; A Double-Dyed Deceiver (1920) ; The Scuttlers (1920) As director:  As screenwriter:  As actor:
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP]  José Ulloa (born 1934) is a Spanish film director, screenwriter and actor. He is known for directing El refugio del miedo (1974), starring Patty Shepard, a science fiction film in which a matrimony exists in a fallout shelter. With Manuel Vázquez Montalbán he penned Tatuaje (1978). He also directed Juventud sin freno (1978), La amante ingenua (1977), Juventud sin freno (1978), and Andalucía chica (1989). He wrote the screenplay and was the assistant director of Tu fosa será la exacta... amigo (1972).
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP]  Antonio Isasi-Isasmendi Lasa (22 March 1927 – 28 September 2017) was a Spanish film director and producer. Isasi-Isasmendi began working in the production firm Emisora Films as an assistant manager, film editor, scriptwriter, lead producer, and finally director. In 1955 he founded his own production company, Producciones Isasi in Barcelona. He founded a second firm, Moon Films, in Madrid. In the mid-1960s he directed a series of action films designed for the wider European market including Scaramouche (The Adventures of Scaramouche) in 1963 and Estambul 65 (That Man in Istanbul) in 1965. He made some English-language films, most notably They Came to Rob Las Vegas. He abandoned directing for a decade after making El Perro (The Dog) in 1977 in favour of producing and distributing films before returning to the director's chair with El Aire de un Crimen (The Hint of a Crime) in 1987. He directed 13 feature films, wrote eleven and produced eight. In 1981, he was a member of the jury at the 31st Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] El perro, directed by Antonio Isasi-Isasmendi (1977, based on the novel El perro) ; Oro rojo, directed by Alberto Vázquez-Figueroa (1978) ; Ashanti, directed by Richard Fleischer (1979, based on the novel Ébano) ; Manaos, directed by Alberto Vázquez-Figueroa (1979, based on the novel Manaos) ; Last Harem, directed by Sergio Garrone (1981, based on the novel El último harén) ; Tuareg – The Desert Warrior, directed by Enzo G. Castellari (1984, based on the novel Tuareg) ; Crystal Heart, directed by Gil Bettman (1986) ; Iguana, directed by Monte Hellman (1988, based on the novel Iguana) ; Rottweiler, directed by Brian Yuzna (2004, based on the novel El perro)
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP]
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] A todo o nada  A todo o nada () was an Argentine game show, created by the production company Endemol presented by Guido Kaczka. It was first aired by Telefe with the name "El último pasajero" (Spanish: The Last Passenger), from 2005 to 2009, and from 2011 by El Trece, first with the name "Bariló, a todo o nada" (Spanish: Bariló, all or nothing) and the current name.  The show's format included participants of all ages, from children to the elderly, who played a wide range of games for numerous high-quality prizes.
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] Lucas Demare  Lucas Demare (July 14, 1910 – September 6, 1981) was an Argentine film director, screenwriter, and film producer prominent in the Cinema of Argentina in the 1940s, 1950s and 1960s.
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] Ana Casares  Ana Casares (1930 in Stanisławów, Poland – March 13, 2007 in Buenos Aires) was a Polish-Argentine film actress. She starred in 30 films between 1951 and 1980.  In 1933 she moved with her parents to Argentina. She studied acting skills at Heddy Krill. Since 1952 - on the stage. Since 1951, in the Argentine cinema. Casares made her debut in 1951 in the Juan Carlos Thorry film "El Complejo de Felipe" and in 1962 appeared in "Buscando a Mónica". Since 1962, she filmed in Europe, mainly in Spain. She also played at theaters in Madrid. At the beginning of the 1970s, she returned to Buenos Aires, where she continued her acting career. After 1980 she left the cinema and theatre. Ana Casares was called the Argentine "Brigitte Bardot".  She died on 13 March 2007, aged 77, and is buried in the cemetery of La Tablada in Buenos Aires.
Who was the director of El Último perro? [SEP] 1956 in Argentina  Events in the year 1956 in Argentina.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  The Easiest Way is a 1931 American pre-Code MGM drama film directed by Jack Conway. Adapted from the 1909 play of the same name written by Eugene Walter and directed by David Belasco, the film stars Constance Bennett, Adolphe Menjou, Robert Montgomery, Marjorie Rambeau, Anita Page, and Clark Gable
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  The Easy Way (Sans arme, ni haine, ni violence; ) is a 2008 French heist film directed by Jean-Paul Rouve, who also stars in the titular role as the real life thief Albert Spaggiari, who organized a break-in into a Société Générale bank in Nice, France in 1976. The original French title refers to the note Albert Spaggiari left in the bank after completing the robbery. Part of the movie was shot in Portugal at the Hotel Palácio Estoril, a 5-star hotel where some scenes of the James Bond film On Her Majesty's Secret Service were also shot.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Lynton Brent as Brockton Associate (uncredited) ; Jack Hanlon as Andy Murdock (uncredited) ; John Harron as Chris Swoboda, Laura's Suitor (uncredited) ; Dell Henderson as Bud Williams (uncredited) ; Hedda Hopper as Mrs. Clara Williams (uncredited) ; Charles Judels as Mr. Gensler (uncredited)
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  His Way is a 2011 television documentary film about Jerry Weintraub, an American film producer and former chairman and CEO of United Artists. The film was directed by Douglas McGrath. The film features interviews with Weintraub, Jane Morgan, George H. W. Bush, Barbara Bush, George Clooney, Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, Elliott Gould, Ellen Barkin, James Caan, Matt Damon and Bruce Willis.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP]  Warner Archive Collection released the first Region 1 DVD on March 10, 2010.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Easy Rider  Easy Rider is a 1969 American independent drug culture road drama film written by Peter Fonda, Dennis Hopper, and Terry Southern, produced by Fonda, and directed by Hopper. Fonda and Hopper play two bikers who travel through the American Southwest and South, carrying the proceeds from a cocaine deal. The success of "Easy Rider" helped spark the New Hollywood era of filmmaking during the early 1970s.  A landmark counterculture film, and a "touchstone for a generation" that "captured the national imagination," "Easy Rider" explores the societal landscape, issues, and tensions towards adolescents in the United States during the 1960s, such as the rise of the hippie movement, drug use, and communal lifestyle. Real drugs were used in scenes showing the use of marijuana and other substances.  Released by Columbia Pictures on July 14, 1969, "Easy Rider" earned $60 million worldwide from a filming budget of no more than $400,000.<ref name=BudgetCitations/><ref name="box office"/> Critics have praised the performances, directing, writing, soundtrack, and visuals. It received two Academy Awards nominations for Best Original Screenplay and Best Supporting Actor (Jack Nicholson).   In 1998, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Grammy Award for Best Music Video  The Grammy Award for Best Music Video is an honor presented at the Grammy Awards, a ceremony that was established in 1958 and originally called the Gramophone Awards, to performers, directors, and producers of quality short form music videos. Honors in several categories are presented at the ceremony annually by the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences of the United States to "honor artistic achievement, technical proficiency and overall excellence in the recording industry, without regard to album sales or chart position".  Originally called the Grammy Award for Best Video, Short Form, the award was first presented in 1984, as was a similar award for Best Long Form Music Video. From 1986 to 1997, the category name was changed to Best Music Video, Short Form. However, in 1988 and 1989, the award criteria were changed and the video awards were presented under the categories Best Concept Music Video and Best Performance Music Video. The awards were returned to the original format in 1990. The category was called Best Short Form Music Video until 2012, from 2013 it was shortened to Best Music Video. Award recipients include the performers, directors, and producers associated with the winning videos, except for its first two years when the Grammy went to the performing artist only. For unknown reasons, the award for the Best Music Video in 1987 - "Brothers in Arms" by Dire Straits - went to the band only, not to the director(s) and/or producer(s).  Peter Gabriel, Michael Jackson, Janet Jackson, Johnny Cash, Kendrick Lamar, and Beyoncé hold the record for the most wins as a performer in this category, with two each. Mark Romanek holds the record for the most wins as a director, with a total of three. Icelandic singer Björk holds the record for the most nominations as a performer without a win, with four.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP] The Easiest Way  The Easiest Way is a 1931 American pre-Code MGM drama film directed by Jack Conway. Adapted from the 1909 play of the same name written by Eugene Walter and directed by David Belasco, the film stars Constance Bennett, Adolphe Menjou, Robert Montgomery, Marjorie Rambeau, Anita Page, and Clark Gable
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP] Film director  A film director controls a film's artistic and dramatic aspects and visualizes the screenplay (or script) while guiding the film crew and actors in the fulfilment of that vision. The director has a key role in choosing the cast members, production design and all the creative aspects of filmmaking.  The film director gives direction to the cast and crew and creates an overall vision through which a film eventually becomes realized or noticed. Directors need to be able to mediate differences in creative visions and stay within the budget.  There are many pathways to becoming a film director. Some film directors started as screenwriters, cinematographers, producers, film editors or actors. Other film directors have attended a film school. Directors use different approaches. Some outline a general plotline and let the actors improvise dialogue, while others control every aspect and demand that the actors and crew follow instructions precisely. Some directors also write their own screenplays or collaborate on screenplays with long-standing writing partners. Other directors edit or appear in their films or compose the music score for their films.
Who was the director of The Easiest Way? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]  The Betrayed is a 2008 American thriller film, directed by Amanda Gusack from her own screenplay and starring Melissa George, Oded Fehr and Christian Campbell.
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]  The Betrayed (Op Afbetaling) is a 1993 Dutch drama film made for television directed by Frans Weisz. It was entered into the 43rd Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]  Betrayed is a 1954 Eastmancolor US/British international co-production war drama film directed by Gottfried Reinhardt from a screenplay by Ronald Millar and George Froeschel, and starring Clark Gable, Lana Turner, Victor Mature, and Louis Calhern. The musical score was by Walter Goehr and Bronislau Kaper, and the cinematography by Freddie Young. The picture, Gable's last for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, was filmed on location in the Netherlands and England, and was based on the story of turncoat Dutch resistance leader Christiaan Lindemans, also known as "King Kong". The supporting cast features O. E. Hasse, Wilfrid Hyde-White, Ian Carmichael, Niall MacGinnis, and Theodore Bikel. Betrayed was the fourth and final movie in which Gable played opposite Turner, and their third pairing set during World War II. (They played comrades, not simply lovers, in all three war films.) Diana Coupland provided Turner's singing voice in the song "Johnny Come Home". Betrayed was spoofed in the film Top Secret! (1984).
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]  Betrayed is an espionage thriller set in the Nazi-occupied Netherlands during World War II, and revolves mostly around the Dutch resistance movement. Colonel Pieter Deventer (Clark Gable) is an intelligence agent of the exiled Dutch government, working to liberate his homeland from Nazi occupiers. He divides his time between secret missions in the Netherlands and trips to England to consult his superiors and a British general. Deventer is ordered to keep an eye on singer Fran Seelers (Lana Turner), who's suspected of collaborating with the Germans. Both Deventer and Seelers join the shadowy Dutch underground, making contact with a flamboyant resistance leader known as "The Scarf" (Victor Mature). As "Carla Van Oven", Seelers is assigned is to use her feminine charms to gain the
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]  Act of Betrayal is a 1988 mini-series that was a co-production between Ireland, Australia and the US. Directed by Lawrence Gordon Clark, it stars Lisa Harrow, Elliott Gould, Patrick Bergin, Deborra-Lee Furness, and Max Cullen. It had a budget of $6 million and was later cut down to a 117-minute TV movie.
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP] Betrayed (1954 film)  Betrayed is a 1954 American Eastmancolor war drama film directed by Gottfried Reinhardt and starring Clark Gable, Lana Turner, Victor Mature, and Louis Calhern. The screenplay was by Ronald Millar and George Froeschel. The musical score was by Walter Goehr and Bronislau Kaper, and the cinematography by Freddie Young. The picture, Gable's last for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, was filmed on location in the Netherlands and England, and was based on the story of turncoat Dutch resistance leader Christiaan Lindemans, also known as "King Kong". The supporting cast features O. E. Hasse, Wilfrid Hyde-White, Ian Carmichael, Niall MacGinnis, and Theodore Bikel. "Betrayed" was the fourth and final movie in which Gable played opposite Turner, and their third pairing set during World War II. (They played comrades, not simply lovers, in all three war films.)  Diana Coupland provided Turner's singing voice in the song "Johnny Come Home".  "Betrayed" was spoofed in the film "Top Secret!" (1984).
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP] A Town Betrayed  A Town Betrayed (, ) is a 2010 Norwegian documentary about the prelude of the Srebrenica massacre (1995), written and directed by journalists Ola Flyum and David Hebditch and produced by Fenris Films, NRK, among others. It was shown on NRK's Brennpunkt on 26 April 2011 and SVT on 28 August 2011.  The film was described by director Ola Flyum in an April 26, 2011 "Dagsavisen" interview as follows: The documentary has received criticism from journalist associations, the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, and the foreign minister of Bosnia-Hercegovina. The Norwegian Helsinki Committee filed a complaint with the Norwegian Press Complaints Commission (PFU). NRK and Fenris Film received criticism after the PFU handled the case at a meeting in Lillehammer on October 20, 2011 and found that the film violated point 3.2 of the Ethical Code of Practice for the Norwegian Press regarding citing sources. The PFU concluded that
Who was the director of The Betrayed? [SEP] Riddick (film)  Riddick (also known as Riddick: Rule the Dark) is a 2013 American science fiction action film written and directed by David Twohy and based on the character Richard B. Riddick by the Wheat Brothers. It is the third installment in the "Riddick" film series and a sequel to both "The Chronicles of Riddick" (2004) and "Pitch Black" (2000). It stars Vin Diesel as the eponymous character alongside Jordi Mollà, Matthew Nable, Katee Sackhoff, Dave Bautista, Bokeem Woodbine, Raoul Trujillo, and Karl Urban. In the film, notorious murderer Riddick is betrayed and left for dead on a desolate planet and uses his instincts to survive. He eventually teams up with mercenaries arriving to capture him to escape from a larger threat.  "Riddick" was released on September 6, 2013, in the United States. It was shown in both conventional and IMAX Digital theaters. Critics considered it a return to form for the series and it became a moderate box-office success compared to its predecessor. A fourth film entitled "Riddick 4: Furya" is in development.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP]  Sacrifice is a 2011 American/Canadian action thriller film written and directed by Canadian film director Damian Lee, and starring Cuba Gooding Jr. and Christian Slater. It was filmed in Ottawa, Ontario. The movie was produced by Zed Filmworks based in Ottawa, as well as Styx Productions. This film was released direct-to-video.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP]  Sacrifice is a 2016 American thriller film that was written and directed by Peter A. Dowling, and starred Radha Mitchell and Rupert Graves. It was filmed in Ireland, in Shetland in the United Kingdom, and New York City. The film is based on the book Sacrifice by Sharon Bolton.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP]  Tarkovsky had directed in Nostalghia. Cinematographer Sven Nykvist, a friend of Josephson and frequent collaborator with Bergman, was asked to join the production. Despite a contemporaneous offer to shoot Sydney Pollack's Out of Africa, Nykvist later said it was "not a difficult choice", and like Josephson, he became a co-producer when he invested his fees back into the film. Production designer Anna Asp, who worked on Bergman's Autumn Sonata and After the Rehearsal and had won an Academy Award for Fanny and Alexander, also joined the project, as well as Daniel Bergman, one of Ingmar's children, who worked as a camera assistant. Many critics commented on The Sacrifice in the context of Bergman's work.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP]  The Sacrifice is an independent film by James Fessenden that was first shown at Gaylaxicon in 2005. It is a horror/psychological thriller that centers on a high school boy who becomes embroiled in an occult mystery in a quiet New Hampshire town.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP]  Sacrifice is a 2014 American thriller drama film written and directed by Michael Cohn and starring Dermot Mulroney, Melora Walters and Austin Abrams.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP] The Sacrifice (1986 film)  The Sacrifice () is a 1986 drama film written and directed by Andrei Tarkovsky. Starring Erland Josephson, the film was produced by the Swedish Film Institute. Many of the crew were alumni of Ingmar Bergman's films.  "The Sacrifice" centers on a middle-aged intellectual who attempts to bargain with God to stop an impending nuclear holocaust. The film combines pagan and Christian religious themes; Tarkovsky called it a "parable".  "The Sacrifice" was Tarkovsky's third film as a Soviet expatriate, after "Nostalghia" and the documentary "Voyage in Time", and he died shortly after its completion. He was diagnosed with cancer after making of the film, and by 1986 was unable to attend its presentation at the Cannes Film Festival due to his illness. Like 1972's "Solaris", it won the Grand Prix at the Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP] Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice  Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice is a 2017 action-adventure game developed and published by the British video game development studio Ninja Theory. Set in a dark fantasy world inspired by Norse mythology and Celtic culture, the game follows Senua, a Pict warrior who must make her way to Helheim by defeating otherworldly entities and facing their challenges, in order to rescue the soul of her dead lover from the goddess Hela. It was released worldwide for Windows and PlayStation 4 in August 2017, Xbox One in April 2018, Nintendo Switch in April 2019, and Xbox Series X and Series S in August 2021. "Hellblade" features support for virtual reality, which was added in a 2018 update.  Self-described as an "independent AAA game", "Hellblade" was created by a team of approximately twenty developers led by writer and director Tameem Antoniades. The game blends different gameplay mechanics and concepts like puzzle solving, psychological horror and melee combat. Voice acting is an integral part of the game, while its cutscenes combine motion capture by Melina Juergens, and live action performances by other actors. The game's narrative serves as a metaphor for the character's struggle with psychosis, as Senua, who suffers from the condition but believes it to be a curse, is haunted by an entity known as the "Darkness", voices in her head known as "Furies", and memories from her past. To properly represent psychosis, developers worked closely with neuroscientists, mental health specialists, and people living with the condition.  "Hellblade" was a commercial success and was well-received by critics, who praised it as a work of art and applauded its uncommon choice of revolving around psychosis, the quality and uniqueness of its approach of the condition, and its story and main character. Its overall presentation, along with Juergens' performance, was also considered superior in quality to what independent games usually provide, although its gameplay and other elements received some criticism. The game sold over a million copies across all platforms by June 2018. A sequel, "", was announced at The Game Awards 2019.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP] Pawn Sacrifice  Pawn Sacrifice is a 2014 American biographical drama film about chess player Bobby Fischer. It follows Fischer's challenge against top Soviet chess grandmasters during the Cold War and culminating in the World Chess Championship 1972 match versus Boris Spassky in Reykjavík, Iceland. It was directed by Edward Zwick and written by Steven Knight, and stars Tobey Maguire as Fischer, Liev Schreiber as Spassky, Lily Rabe as Joan Fischer, and Peter Sarsgaard as William Lombardy. It was released in the United States on September 16, 2015.  The film received generally positive reviews, with many critics praising Maguire's performance, but grossed only $5 million worldwide against a budget of $19 million.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP] Apocalypto  Apocalypto () is a 2006 action adventure film produced, co-written, and directed by Mel Gibson. The film features a cast of Native American and Indigenous Mexican actors consisting of Rudy Youngblood, Raoul Trujillo, Mayra Sérbulo, Dalia Hernández, Gerardo Taracena, Rodolfo Palacios, Bernardo Ruiz Juarez, Ammel Rodrigo Mendoza, Ricardo Diaz Mendoza, and Israel Contreras. All of the indigenous people depicted in the film were Maya. Similar to Gibson's earlier film "The Passion of the Christ", all dialogue is in a modern approximation of the ancient language of the setting. Here, the Indigenous Yucatec Mayan language is spoken with subtitles, which sometimes refer to the language as Mayan.   Principal photography took place in Mexico from 21 November 2005 and ended in July 2006. This was the last film Gibson directed until 2016's "Hacksaw Ridge" ten years later.  Set in Yucatán, Mexico, around the year 1502, "Apocalypto" portrays the hero's journey of a young man named Jaguar Paw, a late Mesoamerican hunter and his fellow tribesmen who are captured by an invading force. After the devastation of their village, they are brought on a perilous journey to a Mayan city for human sacrifice at a time when the Mayan civilization is in decline. The film was a box office success, grossing over $120 million worldwide, and received mostly positive reviews, with critics praising Gibson's direction, Dean Semler's cinematography, and the performances of the cast, though the portrayal of Mayan civilization and historical accuracy were criticized. The film was distributed by Buena Vista Pictures in North America and Icon Film Distribution in the United Kingdom and Australia.
Who was the director of Sacrifice? [SEP] The Sacrifice (2020 film)  The Sacrifice () is a 2020 Chinese anthology war drama film directed by Guan Hu, Frant Gwo, and Lu Yang, and starring Zhang Yi, Wu Jing, Li Jiuxiao, Vision Wei, and Deng Chao. The film depicts the Korean War from three perspectives and segments, each directed by a different director.  The film is noted for having done its production in less than two months. Filming started for the film in August 2020 and wrapped on September 20, 2020. The film was originally scheduled to be screened on 25 October 2020, but the date was moved up to 23 October. The tagline on the promotional poster is "National defense brooks no delay" (保家卫国刻不容缓).
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP]  Kearney was the fifth director - and first female director - of The Hamilton Project, following a prestigious group of former directors, all of whom played significant roles in public service, including founding director Peter Orszag, who went on to become director of the Congressional Budget Office and then director of the White House Office of Management and Budget, Jason Furman, who subsequently served as chairman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers, and Douglas Elmendorf, who subsequently directed the Congressional Budget Office and is now Dean of the Kennedy School at Harvard University. Under Kearney's leadership, the Hamilton Project worked on a variety of policy topics, including domestic poverty, labor market challenges and the future of work, and mass incarceration. Together
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP]  In 1983, Debra Zimmerman became the executive director of WMM.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP]  female office workers in 1975. In 1977, 9to5 merged with Cleveland Women Working to create a national coalition of like-minded associations, the Cleveland-based Working Women Organizing Project, headed by Nussbaum. In 1981, 9to5 worked as a partner with the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) known as District 925. She served as director from 1981 to 1993. During the Clinton Administration, Nussbaum served as the director of the Women's Bureau, in the United States Department of Labor from 1993 to 1996. As director of the Women’s Bureau, she surveyed working women about their jobs and initiated programs in response to their concerns. Nussbaum is the founding director of Working America, a community affiliate of the AFL-CIO. She co-founded the organization in 2003 and formerly served as executive director. She was inducted into the Ohio Women’s Hall of Fame in 1984.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP]  Amy Pascal is the Sony studio chief and is the only female head of a major studio. In 1988, Pascal joined Columbia Pictures; she left in 1994 and went to work for Turner Pictures as the president of the company. In her first years at Columbia she worked on films such as Groundhog Day, Little Women, and A League of Their Own. When Pascal first started her career she was the Vice President of production at 20th Century Fox in 1986–1987. Before Pascal joined Fox, she was a secretary for Tony Garnett who was an independent producer with Warner Bros.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP]  Although DGA v. WB/CPI was dismissed, the threat of legal action and the accompanying publicity still may have been a "galvanizing event". Filing of the suit was followed by an increase in the number of women employed as directors. When they founded the WSC, the Original Six presented statistics showing that only 0.5 percent of all directing assignments for films and TV shows were going to women. Following the court case, the percentage of women directing television episodes increased, reaching a peak of women directing 16% of television shows in 1995. The number of women film directors has also risen, albeit erratically. Since 2007 Stacy L. Smith, Founder and Director of the Annenberg Inclusion Initiative at the
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP] Women's cinema  Women's cinema primarily describes cinematic works directed (and optionally produced too) by women filmmakers. The works themselves do not have to be stories specifically about women and the target audience can be varied.  It is also a variety of topics bundled together to create the work of women in film. This can include women filling behind the scene roles such as director, cinematographer, writer, and producer while also addressing the stories of women and character development through screenplays (on the other hand, films made by men about women are instead called Woman's film).  Renowned female directors include Alice Guy-Blaché, film pioneer and one of the first film directors, Agnès Varda, the first French New Wave director, Yulia Solntseva, the first woman to win the Best Director Award at Cannes Film Festival (1961), Lina Wertmüller, the first woman nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director (1977), Barbra Streisand, the first woman to win the Golden Globe Award for Best Director (1983), Jane Campion, the first woman to win the Palme D'Or at Cannes Film Festival (1993), and Kathryn Bigelow, the first woman to win the Academy Award for Best Director (2009), along with many other female directors from around the world such as Dorothy Arzner, Ida Lupino, Lois Weber, Leni Riefenstahl, Mary Harron, Icíar Bollaín, Aparna Sen, Sofia Coppola, Kira Muratova, Patty Jenkins, Nancy Meyers, Claire Denis, Chantal Akerman, Catherine Breillat, Ava DuVernay, Lucrecia Martel, Lynne Ramsay, Greta Gerwig, Rakhshān Banietemad, Claudia Weill and Julie Dash. Many successful cinematographers are also women, including Margarita Pilikhina, Maryse Alberti, Reed Morano, Rachel Morrison, Halyna Hutchins and Zoe White.  Women's cinema recognizes women's contributions all over the world, not only to narrative films but to documentaries as well. Recognizing the work of women occurs through various festivals and awards, such as the Cannes Film Festival, for example.  "Women's cinema is a complex, critical, theoretical, and institutional construction", Alison Butler explains. The concept has had its fair share of criticisms, causing some female filmmakers to distance themselves from it in fear of being associated with marginalization and ideological controversy.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP] UN Women  The United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women, also known as UN Women, is a United Nations entity working for gender equality and the empowerment of women. UN Women advocates for the rights of women and girls, and focuses on a wide array of issues, including violence against women and violence against LGBTIQ+ people.  UN Women was established by the merger of the United Nations Development Fund for Women (UNIFEM, established in 1976) and other entities, and became operational in January 2011. Former President of Chile Michelle Bachelet was the inaugural executive director, and Sima Sami Bahous is the current executive director. As with UNIFEM previously, UN Women is a member of the United Nations Development Group.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP] Hidden Figures  Hidden Figures is a 2016 American biographical drama film directed by Theodore Melfi and written by Melfi and Allison Schroeder. It is loosely based on the 2016 non-fiction book of the same name by Margot Lee Shetterly about African American female mathematicians who worked at NASA during the Space Race. The film stars Taraji P. Henson, Octavia Spencer, Janelle Monáe, Kevin Costner, Kirsten Dunst, Jim Parsons, Mahershala Ali, Aldis Hodge, and Glen Powell.  Principal photography began in March 2016 in Atlanta, Georgia and wrapped up in May 2016. Other filming locations included several other locations in Georgia, including East Point, Canton, Monroe, Columbus, and Madison.  "Hidden Figures" had a limited release on December 25, 2016, by 20th Century Fox, before going wide in North America on January 6, 2017. It received critical acclaim, with praise for the performances, particularly those of Henson and Spencer, the writing, direction, cinematography, emotional tone, and historical accuracy, although some argued it featured a white savior narrative. The film was a commercial success, grossing $236 million worldwide against its $25 million production budget. "Deadline Hollywood" noted it as one of the most profitable releases of 2016, and estimated that it made a net profit of $95.5 million.<ref name="profit" />  The film was chosen by the National Board of Review as one of the top ten films of 2016 and received various awards and nominations, including three nominations at the 89th Academy Awards, including Best Picture. It also won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP] Mary Anderson (labor leader)  Mary Anderson (August 27, 1872 – 1964) was a Swedish-born American labor activist and an advocate for women in the workplace. A true feminist, she rallied support to ratify many new laws to support women and equal rights. Throughout her lifetime, Anderson held a large range of roles, rising from a factory worker to the Director of the Women's Bureau in the United States Department of Labor. Anderson's work to protect the rights of women in the workplace made no small impact on the lives of working women across the country.
Who was the director of Women Who Work? [SEP] Academy Award for Best Director  The Academy Award for Best Director (officially known as the Academy Award of Merit for Directing) is an award presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). It is given in honor of a film director who has exhibited outstanding directing while working in the film industry. The award is traditionally presented by the previous year's Best Director winner.  The 1st Academy Awards ceremony was held in 1929 with the award being split into "Dramatic" and "Comedy" categories; Frank Borzage and Lewis Milestone won for "7th Heaven" and "Two Arabian Knights", respectively. However, these categories were merged for all subsequent ceremonies. Nominees are determined by single transferable vote within the directors branch of AMPAS; winners are selected by a plurality vote from the entire eligible voting members of the academy.<ref name="TheEnvelope"> </ref>  For the first eleven years of the Academy Awards, directors were allowed to be nominated for multiple films in the same year. However, after the nomination of Michael Curtiz for two films, "Angels with Dirty Faces" and "Four Daughters", at the 11th Academy Awards, the rules were revised so that an individual could only be nominated for one film at each ceremony. That rule has since been amended, although the only director who has received multiple nominations in the same year was Steven Soderbergh for "Erin Brockovich" and "Traffic" in 2000, winning the award for the latter. The Academy Awards for Best Director and Best Picture have been very closely linked throughout their history. Of the 88 films that won Best Picture and were also nominated for Best Director, 67 won the award.  Since its inception, the award has been given to 74 directors or directing teams. As of the 2021 ceremony, New Zealand filmmaker Jane Campion is the most recent winner in this category for her work on "The Power of the Dog" and the third woman to win it.
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP]  Gudrun "Gudy" Gaskill (1927 – July 14, 2016) was an American mountaineer who is regarded as the driving force behind the creation of the Colorado Trail, a 567 mi hiking, biking, and horseback riding path between Denver and Durango, Colorado. Beginning in the 1970s, she helped plan out the route, solicited donations, and recruited teams of volunteers to work in one-week shifts developing the Trail each summer. She was named executive director of the newly formed Colorado Trail Foundation in 1987. She was inducted into the Colorado Women's Hall of Fame in 2002.
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP]  The Title of "Father of the Ouachita Trail" is given to Mr. Arthur P. Cowley, a former Public Information Officer of the Ouachita National Forest. Mr. Cowley graduated from the University of Missouri with a BS degree in Forestry and began working for the US Forest Service in 1954. Also he received a Master's Degree in Education from the University of Arkansas in 1978. In the early 1970s Mr. Cowley was instrumental in developing the Forest Service's plan for the Ouachita Trail. As a Recreation Staff Specialist with the US Forest Service in Hot Springs, he assisted in the first phases of construction of the Ouachita Trail. He handled trail
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP]  Arthur Perkins (1864&ndash;1932) was an American lawyer and judge from Hartford, Connecticut who, during his retirement, spearheaded the effort to make Benton MacKaye's vision of the Appalachian Trail—a proposed 2,000-mile contiguous footpath to run through fourteen states—a reality. Perkins appointed himself acting chairman of the Appalachian Trail Conference (ATC, now known as the Appalachian Trail Conservancy) in the 1920s, and along with Myron Avery, rallied interest and involvement. The New York segment of the trail had been built in 1923, but work stalled until 1929, when Perkins found a willing worker in his home state. He tapped Ned Anderson to map Connecticut's 50-mile leg. It was quickly accomplished between 1929 and
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] "Trail of Tears" (2009) producer ; Hero (2007) ; Day and Night (2005) director ; Messenger (2004) director ; How the Rabbit Lost His Tail (2003) producer ; How the Redbird Got His Color (2003) producer ; Mapohiceto/Not Listening (2003) producer ; The Beginning They Told (2003) producer, director
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP]  of the town's history. In the present day, the trail's coordinates have been declassified, and a film crew has arrived to travel the trail to learn about the disappearances and deaths, as well as what lies at the end of the trail. Crew leader Teddy found the trail's coordinates via Friar's cinema. The crew (including Teddy's wife Melissa, their collaborator Walter, sibling cartographers Daryl and Erin Luger, forestry expert Cy, and intern Jill) soon befriends Liv, a townsperson who works at the cinema and agrees to accompany them on their trip. The journey goes well initially, but soon the crew is terrorized by loud and jarring music that
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] The Trial of the Chicago 7  The Trial of the Chicago 7 is a 2020 American historical legal drama film written and directed by Aaron Sorkin. The film follows the Chicago Seven, a group of anti–Vietnam War protesters charged with conspiracy and crossing state lines with the intention of inciting riots at the 1968 Democratic National Convention in Chicago. It features an ensemble cast including Yahya Abdul-Mateen II, Sacha Baron Cohen, Daniel Flaherty, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Michael Keaton, Frank Langella, John Carroll Lynch, Eddie Redmayne, Noah Robbins, Mark Rylance, Alex Sharp, Ben Shenkman, and Jeremy Strong.  Sorkin originally wrote the screenplay in 2007, with the intent of Steven Spielberg directing the film and cast mostly unknown actors. After the 2007 Writers Guild of America strike and budget concerns forced Spielberg to drop out as director, Sorkin was announced as director in October 2018, and much of the cast joined the same month. Filming took place in the fall of 2019 in Chicago and around New Jersey.  Originally planned for a theatrical release by Paramount Pictures, the distribution rights to the film were sold to Netflix due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "The Trial of the Chicago 7" was released in selected theaters on September 25, 2020, and began streaming digitally on Netflix on October 16. The film received positive reviews from critics, who praised the performances, Sorkin's screenplay, and the modern parallels to the 1960s. The film earned six nominations at the 93rd Academy Awards, including Best Picture and Best Supporting Actor for Baron Cohen. It also received five nominations at the 78th Golden Globe Awards (winning for Best Screenplay), three at the 27th Screen Actors Guild Awards (winning Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture), and three at the 74th British Academy Film Awards.
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] The Big Trail  The Big Trail is a 1930 American pre-Code Western early widescreen film shot on location across the American West starring 23-year-old John Wayne in his first leading role and directed by Raoul Walsh.  In 2006, the United States Library of Congress deemed this film "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant", and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry, saying "the plot of a trek along the Oregon Trail is aided immensely by the majestic sweep provided by the experimental 70mm Grandeur wide-screen process used in filming".
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] Raoul Walsh  Raoul Walsh (born Albert Edward Walsh; March 11, 1887December 31, 1980) was an American film director, actor, founding member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS), and the brother of silent screen actor George Walsh. He was known for portraying John Wilkes Booth in the silent film "The Birth of a Nation" (1915) and for directing such films as the widescreen epic "The Big Trail" (1930) starring John Wayne in his first leading role, "The Roaring Twenties" starring James Cagney and Humphrey Bogart, "High Sierra" (1941) starring Ida Lupino and Humphrey Bogart, and "White Heat" (1949) starring James Cagney and Edmond O'Brien. He directed his last film in 1964. His work has been noted as influences on director such as Rainer Werner Fassbinder, Jack Hill, and Martin Scorsese.
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] Organ Trail  Organ Trail is a "retro zombie survival game" that parodies the educational game series "The Oregon Trail". It was initially released as a free Adobe Flash-based browser game, and later as a Facebook app. This version was developed by Ben Perez, Michael Block, and Ryan Wiemeyer. The game uses the Unity game engine.  An expanded version, "The Organ Trail: Director's Cut", was released on mobile devices in August 2012. That same month the Director's Cut was also posted on Steam Greenlight; after receiving enough support, it was released on Steam for Windows, Mac, and Linux on March 19, 2013. The expanded version was developed by Michael Block and Ryan Wiemeyer, founders of the company The Men Who Wear Many Hats.  "Director's Cut" has sold 429,192 copies as of August 9, 2013. Most of the copies were sold on Humble Bundle, Steam and iOS. Most profits were made on the Steam and iOS platforms.
Who was the director of Trail? [SEP] The Comeback Trail (2020 film)  The Comeback Trail is a 2020 American crime comedy film directed by George Gallo and written by Gallo and Josh Posner, based on the 1982 film of the same name by Harry Hurwitz. It stars Robert De Niro, Tommy Lee Jones, Morgan Freeman, Zach Braff, Emile Hirsch, and Eddie Griffin.  The film premiered at the 2020 Monte-Carlo Comedy Film Festival. A 2023 U.S. theatrical release is planned by Cloudburst Entertainment.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]  Det var paa Rundetaarn is a 1955 Danish comedy film directed by Poul Bang and starring Dirch Passer.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]  Mal (director Hilde Rognskog) 1993 ; Nils Klipper seg (director Bjørn Rørvik) 1996 ; Hammerhaien (director Eva Dahr, part of the movie Pust på meg) Norsk Film 1997 ; Millers bod (director Bjørn Rørvik) 2000 ; Himmelstormeren (director Sara Johnsen) 2000 ; Hormoner og andre demoner (director Sara Johnsen) 2001 ; Hotellrommet (director Torstein Bieler Østtvedt) Filmkameratene 2002 ; Elevkonsert (director Jan Otto Ertesvåg) 2008 Composer of Program Profiles for TV ; Musikkprofil TV2 Music for all the TV2's own vignettes. 1992-2004 (the film vignettes and Document 2 are still on the air) ; Brennpunkt (Vignette musikk) magazine program, NRK 1995 ; Sentrum (Vignette
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP] 1980 - Vi hade i alla fall tur med vädret (screenwriter and cinematographer) ; 1988 - Friends ; 1992 - Night of the Orangutan ; 1996 - Juloratoriet (director and screenwriter) ; 2001 - Familjehemligheter (director and screenwriter) ; 2002 - Stackars Tom (TV) (director) ; 2003 - Mamma pappa barn (director) ; 2005 - Wallander &ndash; Innan frosten (director) ; 2008 - Vi hade i alla fall tur med vädret &ndash; igen
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]  får (Black Sheep) was directed by the television director Stephan Apelgren, best known for directing many of the Swedish detective Kurt Wallander crime films. Apelgren continued directing duties on the next film in the series, Dødens drabanter (Consorts of Death). The tenth film, I mørket er alle ulver grå (At Night All Wolves Are Grey), saw the return of director Alexander Eik. The eleventh film, De døde har det godt (The Dead Have It Easy), is the only one not directly based on a Varg Veum novel but rather combined elements from several short stories from the compilation of the same title. The last film, Kalde hjerter (Cold Hearts), was co-written and directed by lead actor Seim.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]  The early directors were Jens Christian Gundersen (1926-1933) and Kristoffer Aamot (1934-1940). During the German occupation of Norway the company had three Nazi collaborators as directors: Gustav Berg-Jæger (1940-1942), Einar Schibbye (1942-1944) and Birger Ilseng (1944-1945). Kristoffer Aamot then recovered his job, and sat until 1955. Theodor Rosenquist followed (1955-1958), then Arnljot Engh (1958-1975), Eivind Hjelmtveit (1975-1993), Ingeborg Moræus Hanssen (1993-2005), Cecilie Trøan (acting, 2005-2006) and Geir Bergkastet (2006-present). Pre-war chairs of the board of directors were Arthur Skjeldrup (1926-1928), Kristoffer Aamot (1929-1931), Eyvind Getz (1932-1934) and Rachel Grepp (1935-1940). The chairpersons during the German occupation of Norway are not known. After the war, Rolf Hofmo sat from 1946 to 1955, then Rolf Stranger (1956-1967), Albert Nordengen (1968-1971), Adele Lerche (1972-1975), Turid Dankertsen (1976-1979), Albert Nordengen again (1980-1983), Bjørn Bjørnseth (1984-1987), Jon Lyng (1988-1991), Christian Hambro (1992), Theo Koritzinsky (1993-1995), Jon Lyng again (1996-2003) and Heidi Larssen (2003-present). Several directors and chairs were also politicians for the Conservative Party, the party which initially opposed a municipal cinema company.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP] Det var paa Rundetaarn  Det var paa Rundetaarn is a 1955 Danish comedy film directed by Poul Bang and starring Dirch Passer.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP] John Olsen (filmmaker)  John Olsen (12 August 1888 – 9 December 1959) was a Danish film producer, screenwriter and theater owner. Olsen founded the Saga Studio in Copenhagen, Denmark where he produced more than 30 films from 1941 to 1959, including the Danish Culture Canon film "Soldaten og Jenny". He wrote 24 films between 1936 and 1960. In 1941, Olsen built and operated one of Scandinavia's largest movie theaters, the 1513-seat Saga Teatret in Copenhagen.
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP]
Who was the director of Det var paa Rundetaarn? [SEP] Clara Østø  Clara Østø (14 January 1911 – 22 May 1983) was a Danish film actress. She appeared in 22 films between 1934 and 1979. She was born Laurita Clara Hansine Østergaard Olsen in Århus, Denmark and died in Copenhagen.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Innokentiy Smoktunovskiy as Antoni Manev ; Vania Tzvetkova as Doroteya ; Yevgeniya Barakova as Saprugata ; Maria Dimcheva as D-r Yurukova ; Ivan Kondov as Sledovatelyat ; Roumiania Parvanova as Mashtehata
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP]  Barrier to the North (Barriera a Settentrione) is a 1950 Italian mountain film directed by and starring Luis Trenker. It also stars Amedeo Nazzari, Marianne Hold and Margarete Genske. It is sometimes known by the alternative title of Mountain Smugglers.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Joanna Szczerbic : Tram conductor ; Jan Nowicki : Protagonist ; Tadeusz Łomnicki : Doctor ; Maria Malicka : Businesswoman ; Zdzisław Maklakiewicz : Paper seller ; Ryszard Pietruski : Oberwaiter ; Bogdan Baer : Man at bar ; Henryk Bąk : Doctor ; Stefan Friedmann : Tram conductor asking for help ; Andrzej Herder : Manius ; Malgorzata Lorentowicz : Owner of the apartment ; Zygmunt Malanowicz : Eddy ; Janusz Gajos : Streetcar ; Marian Kociniak : Streetcar
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP]  The Barrier (transliterated: Al Hajiz) is a 1990 Bahraini drama film directed and produced by Bassam Al-Thawadi, starring Ebrahim Bahar, Rashed Al-Hassan, and Mariam Ziman. The screenplay was written by Ameen Salih. The film is widely regarded as being the first feature film produced in Bahrain.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP]  Bassam Mohammed Al-Thawadi (بسام محمد الذوادي, born December 13, 1960) is a veteran Bahraini filmmaker and film director, known for producing Bahrain's first feature film, The Barrier, in 1990. Regarded as a regional pioneer in film-making, he is a founding member of the GCC Cinema Society and is also the founder and director-in-general of first Arab Cinema Festival in Bahrain. He had directed numerous short films and also commercials, educational & cultural programmes during his tenure in the Bahrain Radio and Television Corporation as well as performing in plays. Al-Thawadi was chairman of the Al Sawari Video Festival of 1994 and a member of the judging committee of the Baghdad International Television & Film Festival in 1988. He organized the New Egyptian Cinema Days Festival in Bahrain in 1993, and was the director of the fifth Arab Music Festival in 1996.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Barrier of the Law  Barrier of the Law (Italian: La barriera della legge) is a 1954 Italian thriller film directed by Piero Costa and starring Rossano Brazzi, Lea Padovani and Maria Frau. It was shot at the Fert Studios in Turin. The film's sets were designed by the art director Saverio D'Eugenio.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Bremer wall  A Bremer wall, or T-wall, is a portable, steel-reinforced concrete blast wall of the type used for blast protection throughout Iraq and Afghanistan. The name is believed to have originated from L. Paul Bremer of the Coalition Provisional Authority, who was the Director of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance for post-war Iraq, following the Iraq War of 2003, in the early years of the Iraq War.  The Bremer barrier resembles the smaller Jersey barrier, which has been used widely for vehicle traffic control on coalition military bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. To indicate that the Bremer barrier is similar but larger, the , intermediate-sized Bremer barriers are usually referred to as Texas barriers, but not to be confused with the Texas constant-slope barrier. Similarly, the largest barriers, which stand around , are called Alaska barriers. Unlike the Jersey barrier, which has sloped sides at the base, some Texas and Alaska barriers have a rectangular ledge base, usable as a bench for sitting or resting and approximately knee-high for a typical adult.  Alaska barriers are typically used as perimeter fortifications of well-established bases in Iraq and Afghanistan. These T-shaped walls were originally developed by the Israelis in the Israeli West Bank barrier. The term "T-wall" has been used commonly by soldiers throughout Iraq and Afghanistan, due to the wall's cross-sectional shape resembling an inverted letter "T".
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Barrier Reef (TV series)  Barrier Reef was an Australian television series that was first screened domestically in 1971. However, 19 episodes had already premiered on British television on BBC1 between 5 October 1970 and 15 February 1971 and four more aired between 5 April and 3 May 1971 in advance of Australian broadcast.  "Barrier Reef" was about a group of marine biologists on board a sailing ship called the "New Endeavour", researching around the Great Barrier Reef, off Queensland, Australia. ""It was the first series in the world to feature extensive colour underwater filming on location"".
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Jacqueline Cochran  Jacqueline Cochran (May 11, 1906 – August 9, 1980) was an American pilot and business executive. She pioneered women's aviation as one of the most prominent racing pilots of her generation. She set numerous records and was the first woman to break the sound barrier on 18 May 1953. Cochran (along with Nancy Love) was the wartime head of the Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASP) (1943–1944), which employed about 1000 civilian American women in a non-combat role to ferry planes from factories to port cities. Cochran was later a sponsor of the Mercury 13 women astronaut program.
Who was the director of The Barrier? [SEP] Scott D. Berrier  Scott David Berrier is a lieutenant general in the United States Army who serves as the Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Berrier was confirmed by the United States Senate as the 22nd Director of the Defense Intelligence Agency on July 30, 2020, replacing the retiring Lieutenant General Robert P. Ashley Jr. He previously served as the Deputy Chief of Staff of the Army G-2 (intelligence). He received his officer's commission in 1983 through the ROTC program at the University of Wisconsin–Stevens Point.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP]  Genius is a 2016 British-American biographical drama film directed by Michael Grandage and written by John Logan, based on the 1978 National Book Award-winner Max Perkins: Editor of Genius by A. Scott Berg. The film stars Colin Firth, Jude Law, Nicole Kidman, Dominic West, and Guy Pearce. It was selected to compete for the Golden Bear at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP]  Genius is a 2003 direct-to-video American dramatic film, written and directed by Babar Ahmed. The film was shot in Manhattan, New York, and Ahmed's debut feature film. It was screened at several film festivals receiving multiple awards and then released to video.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP]  The Genius Club is an American 2006 Christian-themed dramatic thriller film written and directed by Tim Chey. It was released on 27 October 2006 via Cinemark Theatres. The film tells the story of seven geniuses who try to solve the world's problems in one night in order to prevent a nuclear bomb from exploding in Washington, D.C. The film was produced and distributed by Cloud Ten Pictures and RiverRain Productions.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP]  In January 2018, Suseenthiran announced that he would be directing a film called Genius while also filming another project, Champion. Newcomer Roshan portrays the lead role and also produced the film. Suseenthiran revealed that he had written this script with Vijay in mind; however, since he did not agree to do the film, a debutant was chosen for the plot. The film is based on the theme of education and mental stress.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP]  Hip-hop journalist Rob Markman was hired by Genius as its manager of artist relations. In September 2015, Genius partnered with The Washington Post to annotate the various presidential debates being held at that time. The following month, Genius announced the hiring of Brendan Frederick, formerly of Complex, as director of content. In 2015, Rick Rubin, A-Trak, The-Dream and Eminem were among those who created verified accounts. Pulitzer Prize winning author Michael Chabon has also been verified and has contributed several annotations. Composer and Lyricist Lin-Manuel Miranda also has a verified account with which he frequently joined discussions on the lyrics from his musicals In the Heights and Hamilton. In January 2016, the White House began using Genius to provide annotations for its online postings of President Barack Obama's State of the Union addresses.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP] Genius (2018 Hindi film)  Genius is a 2018 Indian Hindi-language romantic action thriller film directed by Anil Sharma. It marks the debut of his son Utkarsh Sharma as a male lead, who also featured as a child actor in Sharma's 2001 film "," Ishita Chauhan and Mithun Chakraborty, with Ayesha Jhulka, Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Malti Chahar play supporting roles in the film.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP] Genius (American TV series)  Genius is an American anthology period drama television series developed by Noah Pink and Kenneth Biller which premiered on National Geographic. The first season, which aired between April and June 2017, followed the life of Albert Einstein, from his early years, through his time as a patent clerk, and into his later years as a physicist who developed the theory of relativity; the season is based on the 2007 book "" by Walter Isaacson. The second season, which aired between April and June 2018, followed the life and artistry of Pablo Picasso.  In April 2018, National Geographic renewed the series for a third season. The season was originally supposed to focus on Mary Shelley but this was moved to development to instead focus on Aretha Franklin. It aired in March 2021. In December 2020, the series was renewed for a fourth season, which is set to be released on Disney+. The series will follow the life of Martin Luther King Jr. and Malcolm X.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP] Evil Genius (TV series)  Evil Genius: The True Story of America's Most Diabolical Bank Heist is a 2018 true crime documentary series about the death of Brian Wells, a high-profile 2003 incident often referred to as the "collar bomb" or "pizza bomber" case. It was released on Netflix as a four-part series on May 11, 2018.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP] Real Genius  Real Genius is a 1985 American comic science fiction film directed by Martha Coolidge and written by Neal Israel, Pat Proft, and PJ Torokvei. Starring Val Kilmer and Gabriel Jarret, the film, set on the campus of Pacific Tech, a science and engineering university similar to Caltech, follows Chris Knight (Kilmer), a genius in his senior year, who is paired with a new student on campus, Mitch Taylor (Jarret), to work on a chemical laser.  The film received positive reviews from critics, and it grossed $12 million at the North American box office.
Who was the director of Genius? [SEP] Genius (2016 film)  Genius is a 2016 biographical drama film directed by Michael Grandage and written by John Logan, based on the 1978 National Book Award-winner "Max Perkins: Editor of Genius" by A. Scott Berg. The film stars Colin Firth, Jude Law, Nicole Kidman, Laura Linney, Dominic West, and Guy Pearce. It was selected to compete for the Golden Bear at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]  Brod was hired as interim director of the new Women’s and Gender Studies Department at Kenyon College in the early 1990s. Despite being assured during the hiring process that his gender was not an issue, the appointment of a man was very controversial. As a man of the left, I’ve been attacked from the right. Here, also, I’ve been attacked from the left, as a male. Completely isolated, no structure, no connection. Under fire. Incredible.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]  The original director was Silvio Narizzano who left the project prior to shooting. The screenwriters were Chris Bryant and Allan Scott, who were so upset with subsequent changes made they requested their names be taken off the film.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]  Ned Tanen (Universal), and Frank Wells (Warner Bros.) and television sitcom producer Norman Lear. Their results were also leaked to the press. Littman has reflected on how it felt to challenge men who had the power to make or break one's career. ""We were products of the women's movement, and the civil rights movement," she says. "And we alienated enough men so that they felt they owed us nothing, but we had so little left to lose. And the men in the DGA who helped us, like Michael Franklin, loved that we were fighters. Getting out there and advocating for our rights only made us feel stronger.""
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]  DGA director Michael Franklin, during whose tenure the Guild's first diversity committees were formed. The group began to formally investigate and report on the hiring practices of the major film studios. For the next year, the Original Six gathered statistics, documenting that Hollywood had a systemic problem with gender. On March 1, 1980, they reported to the Guild's National Board that during the previous 30 years, women directors had been hired for only 0.5% of the possible directing opportunities. Over the next three years, they took their results to the major studios, advocating for changes with little result. The committee met with major executives including Barry Diller
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]  Men and Women is an American play written by David Belasco and Henry Churchill de Mille. It was featured on Broadway in 1890, opening at Proctor's Twenty-Third Street Theater on October 21, 1890. The cast included Maude Adams. It proved successful with audiences, and played for over 200 performances. It was adapted to a silent film of the same name in 1914.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP] Gender representation on corporate boards of directors  Gender representation on corporate boards of directors refers to the proportion of men and women who occupy board member positions. To measure gender diversity on corporate boards, studies often use the percentage of women holding corporate board seats and the percentage of companies with at least one woman on their board. Globally, men occupy more board seats than women. , women held 20.8% of the board seats on Russell 1000 companies (up from 17.9% in 2015). Most percentages for gender representation on corporate boards refer only to public company boards. Private companies are not required to disclose information on their board of directors, so the data is less available.   The reasons behind the disproportionate gender ratio of directors is a subject of much debate. A survey of more than 4000 directors found that male directors over the age of 55 cited a lack of qualified female candidates as the main reason behind the stagnant number of female directors. In contrast, in the same study, female directors and younger male directors considered the male-dominated networking that often led to the appointment of directors to be the reason behind women's slow progress.<ref name=":4"/>  Given that gender diversity on boards is an issue rooted in the principle of equality of treatment, inequality in gender representation on boards can be combated through equality of opportunity reforms, equality of outcome reforms, or by spreading information on gender bias. Governments and corporations have attempted to address the disproportionality of gender representation on corporate boards through both types of reform measures, including legislation mandating gender quotas (a reform based on the principle of equality of outcome) and comply or explain guidelines (a reform based on the principle of equality of opportunity).
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP] Eat Drink Man Woman  Eat Drink Man Woman () is a 1994 Taiwanese comedy-drama film directed by Ang Lee, from a script co-written with James Schamus and Hui-Ling Wang. It stars Sihung Lung, Wang Yu-wen, Wu Chien-lien, and Yang Kuei-mei. as members of the Zhu family navigate the challenges of love, life, tradition and family. Part of Lee's "Father Knows Best" trilogy and similar to Lee's other works, this film deals with the transition from tradition to modernity. It is Lee's only film, to date, to be shot entirely in his native Taiwan.  The film premiered in Taiwan on July 2, 1994, and it was both a critical and box office success. It won several accolades including an Academy Award nomination for Best Foreign Language Film. It was also nominated for both a Golden Globe and BAFTA Award, as well as three Golden Horse Awards and six Independent Spirit Awards. It would inspire films like "Tortilla Soup" and "Joyful Reunion"  and has an eponymous musical rendition. A BBC Culture poll of film critics ranked the film at number 54 of the 100 Greatest Non-English Language Films.  The title is a quote from the "Book of Rites", one of the Confucian classics, referring to the basic human desires and accepting them as natural. The beginning of the quote reads as follows: “The things which men greatly desire are comprehended in food and drink and sexual pleasure.”
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP] Academy Award for Best Director  The Academy Award for Best Director (officially known as the Academy Award of Merit for Directing) is an award presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). It is given in honor of a film director who has exhibited outstanding directing while working in the film industry. The award is traditionally presented by the previous year's Best Director winner.  The 1st Academy Awards ceremony was held in 1929 with the award being split into "Dramatic" and "Comedy" categories; Frank Borzage and Lewis Milestone won for "7th Heaven" and "Two Arabian Knights", respectively. However, these categories were merged for all subsequent ceremonies. Nominees are determined by single transferable vote within the directors branch of AMPAS; winners are selected by a plurality vote from the entire eligible voting members of the academy.<ref name="TheEnvelope"> </ref>  For the first eleven years of the Academy Awards, directors were allowed to be nominated for multiple films in the same year. However, after the nomination of Michael Curtiz for two films, "Angels with Dirty Faces" and "Four Daughters", at the 11th Academy Awards, the rules were revised so that an individual could only be nominated for one film at each ceremony. That rule has since been amended, although the only director who has received multiple nominations in the same year was Steven Soderbergh for "Erin Brockovich" and "Traffic" in 2000, winning the award for the latter. The Academy Awards for Best Director and Best Picture have been very closely linked throughout their history. Of the 88 films that won Best Picture and were also nominated for Best Director, 67 won the award.  Since its inception, the award has been given to 74 directors or directing teams. As of the 2021 ceremony, New Zealand filmmaker Jane Campion is the most recent winner in this category for her work on "The Power of the Dog" and the third woman to win it.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP] Women's cinema  Women's cinema primarily describes cinematic works directed (and optionally produced too) by women filmmakers. The works themselves do not have to be stories specifically about women and the target audience can be varied.  It is also a variety of topics bundled together to create the work of women in film. This can include women filling behind the scene roles such as director, cinematographer, writer, and producer while also addressing the stories of women and character development through screenplays (on the other hand, films made by men about women are instead called Woman's film).  Renowned female directors include Alice Guy-Blaché, film pioneer and one of the first film directors, Agnès Varda, the first French New Wave director, Yulia Solntseva, the first woman to win the Best Director Award at Cannes Film Festival (1961), Lina Wertmüller, the first woman nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director (1977), Barbra Streisand, the first woman to win the Golden Globe Award for Best Director (1983), Jane Campion, the first woman to win the Palme D'Or at Cannes Film Festival (1993), and Kathryn Bigelow, the first woman to win the Academy Award for Best Director (2009), along with many other female directors from around the world such as Dorothy Arzner, Ida Lupino, Lois Weber, Leni Riefenstahl, Mary Harron, Icíar Bollaín, Aparna Sen, Sofia Coppola, Kira Muratova, Patty Jenkins, Nancy Meyers, Claire Denis, Chantal Akerman, Catherine Breillat, Ava DuVernay, Lucrecia Martel, Lynne Ramsay, Greta Gerwig, Rakhshān Banietemad, Claudia Weill and Julie Dash. Many successful cinematographers are also women, including Margarita Pilikhina, Maryse Alberti, Reed Morano, Rachel Morrison, Halyna Hutchins and Zoe White.  Women's cinema recognizes women's contributions all over the world, not only to narrative films but to documentaries as well. Recognizing the work of women occurs through various festivals and awards, such as the Cannes Film Festival, for example.  "Women's cinema is a complex, critical, theoretical, and institutional construction", Alison Butler explains. The concept has had its fair share of criticisms, causing some female filmmakers to distance themselves from it in fear of being associated with marginalization and ideological controversy.
Who was the director of Men and Women? [SEP]
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP]  Sold is a 2014 drama film directed by Jeffrey D. Brown based on Patricia McCormick's novel Sold. The film is executive produced by Emma Thompson and produced by Jane Charles. The script was written by Joseph Kwong and Jeffrey D. Brown.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP]  Sold was a 1915 American silent drama film produced by Famous Players-Lasky and distributed by Paramount Pictures. Based on George Erastov's play of the same name (which was an adaptation of the Henri Bernstein French play Le Secret), the film starred stage actress Pauline Frederick and was directed by Hugh Ford and Edwin S. Porter. The film was re-released in 1919 by Paramount. It is now considered lost.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP]  Daniel Sales (1958–2005), usually credited as Dan Sales, was an American film producer. He was the associate, executive or supervising producer for movies such as Skinner (1993), Brand New World (1998), Stranded (2001), Alone in the Dark (2005) and BloodRayne (2005).
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP]  Filming began in the week beginning 25 June 2007 in and around London. It is directed by Cilla Ware and distributed internationally by RDF Media. Prior to the announcement of the series, it was referred to by RDF as "Homeboys". The set for the estate Agents was The Pub Studio in Battersea London.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP]  Sold is a British comedy drama television series produced by Touchpaper Television for ITV. The series stars Kris Marshall and Bryan Dick as Matt and Danny, employees of Colubrines Estate Agents. It is written by Steve Coombes and was broadcast between 15 November and 20 December 2007.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP] Death Stranding  Death Stranding is a 2019 action game developed by Kojima Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment for the PlayStation 4. It is the first game from director Hideo Kojima and Kojima Productions after their split from Konami in 2015. A Windows port licensed by Sony was released by 505 Games in July 2020. A director's cut version was released for the PlayStation 5 in September 2021, followed by a release for Windows in March 2022.  The game is set in the United States following a cataclysmic event which caused destructive creatures to begin roaming the Earth. Players control Sam Porter Bridges (Norman Reedus), a courier tasked with delivering supplies to isolated colonies and reconnecting them via a wireless communications network. Alongside Reedus, the game features actors Mads Mikkelsen, Léa Seydoux, Margaret Qualley, Troy Baker, Tommie Earl Jenkins, and Lindsay Wagner, in addition to the likenesses of film directors Guillermo del Toro and Nicolas Winding Refn as supporting characters.  "Death Stranding" received generally positive reviews, with critics praising its voice acting, soundtrack, and visuals, with more mixed opinions regarding its gameplay and story. The game was nominated for and won several awards, including for game of the year. By July 2021, the game had sold copies worldwide. Numerous commentators later noted that elements of the game resembled the COVID-19 pandemic, which began within a month of its original release.  A sequel, "Death Stranding 2", is in development for PlayStation 5. A film adaptation is also in the works.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP] Say Yes to the Dress  Say Yes to the Dress is an American reality television series on TLC which follows events at Kleinfeld Bridal in Manhattan. The series shows the progress of individual sales associates, managers, and fitters at the store, along with profiling brides as they search for the perfect wedding dress. Common themes include overwhelming advice of friends and family, the ability of the "perfect dress" to help a bride overcome personal difficulty, struggle with weight and body image concerns, and the challenge of staying in budget, especially in the case of dresses by Kleinfeld's exclusive designer, Pnina Tornai (one of the few designers ever mentioned by name in the show). Dresses sold on the show range from $1,300 to $40,000.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP] Gucci  Gucci (, ; ) is an Italian high-end luxury fashion house based in Florence, Italy. Its product lines include handbags, ready-to-wear, footwear, accessories, and home decoration; and it licenses its name and branding to Coty, Inc. for fragrance and cosmetics under the name Gucci Beauty.  Gucci was founded in 1921 by Guccio Gucci (1881–1953) in Florence, Tuscany. Under the direction of Aldo Gucci (son of Guccio), Gucci became a worldwide-known brand, an icon of the Italian "Dolce Vita". Following family feuds during the 1980s, the Gucci family was entirely ousted from the capital of the company by 1993. After this crisis, the brand was revived with a provocative 'Porno Chic' props. In 1999, Gucci was acquired by the French conglomerate Pinault Printemps Redoute, which later became Kering. During the 2010s, Gucci became an iconic 'geek-chic' brand.  In 2019, Gucci operated 487 stores for 17,157 employees, and generated €9.628 billion in sales (€8.2 billion in 2018). Marco Bizzarri is CEO of Gucci since December 2014, and Alessandro Michele was creative director from January 2015 to November 23, 2022. Gucci is a subsidiary of the French luxury group Kering.
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP] The Terminator  The Terminator is a 1984 American science fiction action film directed by James Cameron. It stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator, a cyborg assassin sent back in time from 2029 to 1984 to kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton), whose unborn son will one day save mankind from extinction by Skynet, a hostile artificial intelligence in a post-apocalyptic future. Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) is a soldier sent back in time to protect Sarah. The screenplay is credited to Cameron and producer Gale Anne Hurd, while co-writer William Wisher Jr. received an "additional dialogue" credit.  Cameron devised the premise of the film from a fever dream he experienced during the release of his first film, "" (1982), in Rome, and developed the concept in collaboration with Wisher. He sold the rights to the project to fellow New World Pictures alumna Hurd on the condition that she would produce the film only if he were to direct it; Hurd eventually secured a distribution deal with Orion Pictures, while executive producers John Daly and Derek Gibson of Hemdale Film Corporation were instrumental in setting up the film's financing and production. Originally approached by Orion for the role of Reese, Schwarzenegger agreed to play the title character after befriending Cameron. Filming, which took place mostly at night on location in Los Angeles, was delayed because of Schwarzenegger's commitments to "Conan the Destroyer" (1984), during which Cameron found time to work on the scripts for "" (1985) and "Aliens" (1986). The film's special effects, which included miniatures and stop-motion animation, were created by a team of artists led by Stan Winston and Gene Warren Jr.  Defying low pre-release expectations, "The Terminator" topped the United States box office for two weeks, eventually grossing $78.3 million against a modest $6.4 million budget. It is credited with launching Cameron's film career and solidifying Schwarzenegger's status as a leading man. The film's success led to a franchise consisting of several sequels, , comic books, novels and video games. In 2008, "The Terminator" was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the director of Sold? [SEP] Sale Sharks  Sale Sharks is a professional rugby union club from Greater Manchester, England. They play in Premiership Rugby, England's top division of rugby.  Originally founded in 1861 as Sale Football Club, now a distinct amateur club, they adopted the nickname Sharks in 1999. Since 2012 they have played their home games at the A.J. Bell Stadium in Barton-upon-Irwell, Salford. Between 1905 and 2003 they played at Heywood Road in Sale, before moving to Edgeley Park in Stockport where they stayed until 2012. Their traditional colours are blue and white.  Sale have won four major trophies. They were Premiership Rugby Champions in 2005–06, won the European Rugby Challenge Cup in 2001–02, 2004–05 and the Premiership Rugby Cup in 2019/20. They also won the RFU Championship in 1994.  In the 2021–22 Premiership Rugby season Sale finished sixth, which entitled them to compete in the 2022–23 European Rugby Champions Cup. The Director of Rugby is Alex Sanderson who was appointed in January 2021 following the departure of Steve Diamond in December 2020.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP]  David Saint (born June 1958 in Boston, Massachusetts, US ) is an American artistic director at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, New Jersey, US.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP]  and Fathers, with Holly Hunter; and the West Coast premiere of Lend Me A Tenor, as well as world premieres by such authors as Jonathan Larson, Peter Parnell, Jonathan Marc Sherman, Aaron Sorkin, and others. Saint was recently a panelist for the Philadelphia Theatre Initiative for the Pew Charitable Trust, has taught at Bennington College, and directed the short film Celebrity. He is the recipient of the Alan Schneider Award, Helen Hayes Award, Los Angeles Drama Critics Award, and several Drama-Logue Awards. He is currently president of the Laurents/Hatcher Foundation and literary executor of Arthur Laurents' estate. George Street Playhouse
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP]  Gell was chorus director on a number of BBC television movies including The Saint of Bleecker Street in 1956, a production of Il trovatore in 1957, a production of Madam Butterfly in 1957, and a production of the opera Rigoletto in 1958.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP]  Paramount Pictures announced that they would reboot the film with Lorenzo di Bonaventura producing, Dexter Fletcher will direct and Regé-Jean Page will be portraying Templar and will also executive producing the film while Kwame Kwei-Armah will write.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP] The Saint in New York (1938) – with Louis Hayward as The Saint ; The Saint Strikes Back (1939) – with George Sanders as The Saint ; The Saint in London (1939) – with George Sanders as The Saint ; The Saint's Double Trouble (1940) – with George Sanders as The Saint ; The Saint Takes Over (1940) – with George Sanders as The Saint ; The Saint in Palm Springs (1941) –with George Sanders as The Saint ; The Saint's Vacation (1941) – with Hugh Sinclair as The Saint ; The Saint Meets the Tiger (produced in 1941 but not released until 1943) – with Hugh Sinclair as The Saint The Saint (film series) refers
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP] Anthony Vaccarello  Anthony Vaccarello (born 18 January 1982) is an Italian fashion designer and current creative director at Saint Laurent. Prior to this position, he was creative director at Versus Versace. He also designed his own eponymous line. In April 2016, Saint Laurent announced the appointment of Vaccarello as creative director.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP] David Saint  David Saint (born June 1958 in Boston, Massachusetts, US) is an American artistic director at the George Street Playhouse in New Brunswick, New Jersey, US.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP] Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra  The Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra (SPCO) is a full-time professional chamber orchestra based in Saint Paul, Minnesota. In collaboration with five Artistic Partners, the orchestra's musicians present more than 130 concerts and educational programs each year in over 14 venues throughout the Minneapolis/St. Paul area. They are regularly heard on American Public Media's nationally syndicated radio programs "Performance Today" and SymphonyCast.   The orchestra's recording of Aaron Copland's "Appalachian Spring" at Sound 80 studios was one of the earliest digital audio recordings to see commercial release.  Beginning with the 2004–05 season, the SPCO adopted a new artistic model by eliminating the position of music director and creating positions for several Artistic Partners, prominent established musicians. Under this model the SPCO musicians have a much higher degree of artistic control.  Launched in 1995, the SPCO's CONNECT education program reaches 6,000 students annually in 16 Minneapolis and Saint Paul Public Schools. The orchestra's activities are supported by the Friends of the Saint Paul Chamber Orchestra.
Who was the director of The Saint? [SEP] Hedi Slimane  Hedi Slimane (; born July 5, 1968) is a French photographer and grand couturier. From 2000 to 2007, he held the position of creative director for Dior Homme (the menswear line of Christian Dior). From 2012 to 2016, he was the creative director for Yves Saint Laurent. Since February 1, 2018, Slimane has been the creative, artistic and image director of Celine.  In November 2018, Hedi Slimane topped the annual list of Vanity Fair's "50 most influential French people in the world".
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP] Virginia Beresford ; William Thornton as David Cameron ; Robert Purdie as Donald Cameron ; Connie Martyn as Mary Cameron ; Augustus Neville ; George Chalmers ; W. Dummitt ; 'Big' Bill Wilson ; Sydney Hackett ; Phyllis Culbert
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]  The Pioneers is a 1926 Australian silent film directed by Raymond Longford. The script had been written by Lottie Lyell but she had died by the time filming started. It was considered a lost film but some surviving footage from it has recently emerged.
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]  with speeches from University of Utah President A. Ray Olpin, Governor Clyde, Dr. C. Lowell Lees and President David O. McKay. Dr. Lees is named the very first Artistic Director for PMT. Dr. C. Lowell Lees left the University in 1964 and Keith M. Engar is appointed to succeed him. During his time at Pioneer Theatre, Keith M. Engar creates the University Resident Theatre Association (URTA) contract with Actors’ Equity Association. It is the first formalized contract between Actors’ Equity and a university theatre. In 1984 Charles Morey is hired as Artistic Director of PTC, with specific direction to fully professionalize the
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP] The Pioneers (1924)
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]  The Pioneers is a 1916 Australian silent film directed by Franklyn Barrett. The film is based on the debut novel by Katharine Susannah Prichard which won £250 in a 1915 literary competition. It is considered a lost film. It was later filmed by Raymond Longford as The Pioneers (1926).
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP] National Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award  National Institutes of Health Director's Pioneer Award is a research initiative first announced in 2004 designed to support individual scientists' biomedical research. The focus is specifically on "pioneering" research that is highly innovative and has a potential to produce paradigm shifting results.  The awards, made annually from the National Institutes of Health common fund, are each worth $500,000 per year, or $2,500,000 for five years.
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Pioneers? [SEP]
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]  and made his debut as a feature film director with Betrayal (1983), based on Harold Pinter's screenplay adaptation of his 1978 play Betrayal. From 1973 to 1978, Jones was Artistic Director of the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC), at the Aldwych Theatre, where he directed plays by William Shakespeare, Bertolt Brecht, Anton Chekhov, Seán O'Casey, Maxim Gorky, Harley Granville-Barker, Graham Greene, and others, and became an honorary associate director of the RSC in 1991. From 1979 to 1981, he was Artistic Director of the BAM Theater Company (1979–1981). He also directed three productions at the Williamstown Theatre Festival, in Williamstown, Massachusetts: On the Razzle (1981), by Tom Stoppard (2005); Sweet Bird of Youth (1959), by Tennessee Williams (2006), and The Autumn Garden (1951), by Lillian Hellman (2007).
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]  His innovative designs for Vladimir Rosing's American Opera Company in 1927 and 1928 were praised by critics. Jones also brought his expressionistic style to many productions put on by the Theatre Guild, with innovative designs for The Philadelphia Story (1937), Othello (1943), and The Iceman Cometh (1946). Jones’s biggest commercial success was with The Green Pastures (1930), which, if we include its revival in 1951, played for a total of 1,642 performances. This revival was Jones’s last production. Other Broadway credits include Holiday (1928), Mourning Becomes Electra (1931), Ah, Wilderness! (1933), Juno and the Paycock (1940), and Lute Song (1946). Jones was also the production designer for some early three-color Technicolor films, such as La
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]  Christopher Nigel Jones (born September 10, 1963) is a British-American journalist and academic. He is the chief theater critic and Sunday culture columnist of the Chicago Tribune. Since 2014, he has also served as director of the Eugene O’Neill Theater Center’s National Critics Institute. Jones appears live on the news broadcast of CBS-2 Chicago as a weekly theater critic. In 2018, he was additionally named Broadway theater critic for the Tribune related publication, the New York Daily News. In 2001, Jones was featured in an article in American Theatre magazine about the 12 most influential theater critics in America. In 2016, the New York Times cited Jones as an important reason that Broadway shows try-out in Chicago, noting the role his reviews have played in helping producers improve productions for New York runs.
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]  Christine Jones is an American scenic designer on Broadway. Her best-known designs include Spring Awakening, American Idiot, and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. In 2010, she created an experimental, two-week project called Theatre for One in which one actor performs for one audience member. It was repeated in 2015. She is a professor at New York University and a lecturer at Princeton University.
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]  With over 170 producing credits and a Tony nomination, Jones’ producing experience spans from Broadway to London with much in between. Her show Alice in Wonderland, directed by Eva Le Gallienne, opened on Broadway in 1982 garnering a Tony nomination. She produced the WNET13 Masterpiece Theatre Production for television. With The Mirror Repertory Company, Jones produced three full repertory seasons, and she continues to work for The Mirror Theater Ltd and the Greensboro Arts Alliance and Residency today. Her latest production, Sinners (written by Joshua Sobol, dir. Brian Cox), debuted in Vermont in summer 2016 and will be performed in Boston in March. In a review on Sinners, Boston's Arts
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP] Broadway Jones (film)  Broadway Jones is a lost 1917 American silent comedy film directed by Joseph Kaufman and starring George M. Cohan, in his film debut, in a motion picture based on his 1912 play, "Broadway Jones".  Though no known copies survive of the film, a 1931 Paramount promotional film, "The House That Shadows Built", contains a clip of Cohan which may be from either "Broadway Jones" or one of two other lost Cohan silent films from around the same time.
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP] Bill T. Jones  William Tass Jones, known as Bill T. Jones, (born February 15, 1952) is an American choreographer, director, author and dancer. He is the co-founder of the Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane Dance Company. Jones is Artistic Director of New York Live Arts, the company's home in Manhattan, whose activities encompass an annual presenting season together with allied education programming and services for artists. Independently of New York Live Arts and his dance company, Jones has choreographed for major performing arts ensembles, contributed to Broadway and other theatrical productions, and collaborated on projects with a range of fellow artists. Jones has been called "one of the most notable, recognized modern-dance choreographers and directors of our time."
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP] Richard Jones (director)  Richard Jones CBE (born 7 June 1953) is a British theatre and opera director. He was born in London, and studied at the University of Hull and University of London. After working as a jazz musician, he spent 1982–83 on a bursary working with Scottish Opera and the Citizens Theatre.  His work has become controversial and has provoked considerable reactions from the UK press. However, he is also seen as a major figure in the worlds of theatre and opera, as has been noted in a 2002 interview which appeared in London's "The Guardian":
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP] Margo Jones  Margo Jones (December 12, 1911 – July 24, 1955), nicknamed the "Texas Tornado", was an American stage director and producer, best known for launching the American regional theater movement and for introducing the theater-in-the-round concept in Dallas, Texas. In 1947, she established the first regional professional company when she opened Theatre '47 in Dallas. Of the 85 plays Jones staged during her Dallas career, 57 were new, and one-third of those new plays had a continued life on stage, television, and radio. Jones played an important role in the early careers of a range of playwrights, such as Tennessee Williams, William Inge, Joseph Hayes, Jerome Lawrence, and Robert E. Lee.
Who was the director of Broadway Jones? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP]  The Last Word is a 1979 film starring Richard Harris. It was the last movie directed by Roy Boulting. It was also known as The Number.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP]  The Last Word is an offbeat romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Geoffrey Haley. It stars Winona Ryder and Wes Bentley. It had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January, and had a wider release in 2008.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP]  Last Words is a 2020 internationally co-produced drama film directed by Jonathan Nossiter. It was selected to be shown at the 2020 Cannes Film Festival. It premiered at the Deauville American Film Festival on 6 September 2020.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] Richard Harris as Danny Travis ; Karen Black as Paula Herbert ; Martin Landau as Capt. Gerrity ; Dennis Christopher as Ben ; Christopher Guest as Roger ; Penelope Milford as Denise
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP]  independent horror names such as Nacho Vigalondo, Ti West, Adam Wingard, Srdjan Spasojevic and Xavier Gens, the film premiered at Toronto's International Film Festival's Midnight Madness section in 2012. In 2013 Rumley was hired to direct his first 'Hollywood' feature by Boss Media and producer Frank Mancuso, Jr (Species, Ronin, Internal Affairs). The film was co-produced by Ai7le Films, run by actor Peter Facinelli (Twilight). The Last Word is a horror/curse movie based on the true story of Johnny Frank Garrett, executed in Texas in 1992 for the rape and murder of a 76-year-old nun. Garrett maintained his innocence until the end and left behind a curse
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (2017 film)  The Last Word is a 2017 American comedy-drama film directed by Mark Pellington, from a screenplay by Stuart Ross Fink. It stars Amanda Seyfried and Shirley MacLaine.  "The Last Word" premiered at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival on January 24, 2017. It was released on March 3, 2017, by Bleecker Street.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (2008 film)  The Last Word is an offbeat romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Geoffrey Haley. It stars Winona Ryder and Wes Bentley. It had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January, and it had a wider release in 2008.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (1973 film)  The Last Word (, translit. Poslednata duma) is a 1973 Bulgarian drama film directed by Binka Zhelyazkova. It was entered into the 1974 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] Last Words (2020 film)  Last Words is a 2020 internationally co-produced drama film directed by Jonathan Nossiter. It was selected to be shown at the 2020 Cannes Film Festival. It premiered at the Deauville American Film Festival on 6 September 2020.
Who was the director of The Last Word? [SEP] Famous Last Words (My Chemical Romance song)  "Famous Last Words" is a song by American rock band My Chemical Romance. It was released as the band's second single on January 22, 2007 from their third studio album, "The Black Parade". It is also the band's ninth overall single, and the final track on The Black Parade (if the hidden track "Blood" is not counted). The music video premiered on December 12, 2006 on MTV2 and on December 13, 2006 on the Much Music program, and on "MuchOnDemand" in Canada.  In the United Kingdom and other territories, the single was released as a two-part square shaped vinyl picture disc. Part one came in a gatefold stickered clear sleeve, with a space to 'slot' part two into.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP]  at the Cannes Film Festival. Wood reunited with Don Murray for Escape from East Berlin, a 1962 film directed by Robert Siodmak. The film is based on a news story of twenty-eight people who tunneled to freedom under the Berlin Wall earlier that same year. He served as executive producer on the 1971 film, The Todd Killings. The film, directed by Barry Shear, is based on murders committed by Charles Schmid in Tucson in the 1960s. In 1974, the Mayor of New York, Abraham Beame set up the Mayor Advisory Council on Motion Pictures and Television and Wood was appointed its first director. Wood’s job
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP]  Richard Tuggle is an American film director and writer best known as the writer of Escape from Alcatraz, the writer and director of Tightrope, and the director of Out of Bounds.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP]  Hitchcock desperately wanted to direct Norma Shearer, Robert Taylor, and Conrad Veidt in one of the first World War II dramas, Escape. Hitchcock, a long-time admirer of Shearer's acting, had sought for years to find a suitable project for her. However, Hitchcock was shut out of the project when the novel Escape by Ethel Vance (pen name of Grace Zaring Stone) was purchased by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. Hitchcock knew he could never work for the notorious MGM studio head Louis B. Mayer, who selected Mervyn LeRoy to produce and direct the film, which indeed starred Shearer and was released in late 1940. Years later, Hitchcock made the statement about the lack of true Hollywood leading ladies with the quote, "Where are the Norma Shearers?"
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP]  Escapes is a 2017 documentary film about the life of flamenco dancer, actor, and Blade Runner screenwriter Hampton Fancher directed by Michael Almereyda.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Atef El-Tayeb as A film director. ; Written by: Mustafa Muharram (Story) Bashir Al Deek (Screenplay and Dialogue) ; Mohsen Nasr as Director of Photography ; Nadia Shoukry (montage) ; Production Department: Tamidou Production and Distribution (Medhat El Sherif) ; Ibrahim Al-Mashnab as Executive Producer ; Magdy Kamel (II) (Audio Engineer) ; Tamido Productions and Distribution as Distribution Company ; The soundtrack, which is one of the immortal works of Modi Al-Imam, was sung on the stage of the program with the voice of many young talents and led by the orchestra of musician Nader Abbasi
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Escape Room (2019 film)  Escape Room is a 2019 American psychological horror film<ref name="preview" /> directed by Adam Robitel and written by Bragi F. Schut and Maria Melnik. The film stars Taylor Russell, Logan Miller, Deborah Ann Woll, Tyler Labine, Nik Dodani, Jay Ellis, and Yorick van Wageningen, and follows a group of people who are sent to navigate a series of deadly escape rooms.  Development of the film began in August 2017, then under the title "The Maze", and the casting process commenced. Filming took place in South Africa in late 2017 through January 2018.  "Escape Room" was released in the United States on January 4, 2019, by Sony Pictures Entertainment, and grossed over $155million worldwide. The film received mixed reviews from critics, who praised the atmosphere and cast, but criticized the familiar plot and its failure to take full advantage of its premise. A sequel, "", was released on July 16, 2021.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Escape from New York  Escape from New York is a 1981 American science fiction action film co-written, co-scored and directed by John Carpenter. It stars Kurt Russell, Lee Van Cleef, Ernest Borgnine, Donald Pleasence, Isaac Hayes, Adrienne Barbeau, and Harry Dean Stanton.  The film's storyline, set in the near-future world of 1997, concerns a crime-ridden United States, which has converted Manhattan Island in New York City into the country's sole maximum-security prison. Air Force One is hijacked by anti-government insurgents who deliberately crash it into the walled borough. Ex-soldier and current federal prisoner Snake Plissken (Russell) is given just 24 hours to go in and rescue the President of the United States, after which, if successful, he will be pardoned.  Carpenter wrote the film in the mid-1970s in reaction to the Watergate scandal. After the success of "Halloween" (1978), he had enough influence to begin production and filmed it mainly in St. Louis, Missouri, on an estimated budget of $6 million. Debra Hill and Larry J. Franco served as the producers. The film was co-written by Nick Castle, who had collaborated with Carpenter by portraying Michael Myers in "Halloween".  Released in the United States on July 10, 1981, the film received positive reviews from critics and was a commercial success, grossing more than $25.2 million at the box office.<ref name="thenumbers"/> The film was nominated for four Saturn Awards, including Best Science Fiction Film and Best Direction. The film became a cult classic and was followed by a sequel, "Escape from L.A." (1996), which was also directed and written by Carpenter and starred Russell.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Escape Plan (film)  Escape Plan is a 2013 American prison action thriller film starring Sylvester Stallone and Arnold Schwarzenegger, and co-starring Jim Caviezel, 50 Cent, Vinnie Jones, Vincent D'Onofrio and Amy Ryan. It was directed by Swedish filmmaker Mikael Håfström, and written by Miles Chapman and Jason Keller (under the anagram pen-name 'Arnell Jesko'). The first film to pair up Stallone and Schwarzenegger as co-leads, it follows Stallone's character Ray Breslin, a lawyer turned prison security tester who is incarcerated in the world's most secret and secure prison, and recruits fellow inmate Emil Rottmayer, portrayed by Schwarzenegger, to stage a breakout. The film is the first installment of the "Escape Plan" film series.  The film was released in the United States on October 18, 2013, received mixed reviews and grossed $137 million worldwide against a $54 million budget.
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Escape from Alcatraz (film)  Escape from Alcatraz is a 1979 American prison thriller film directed by Don Siegel. It is an adaptation of the 1963 non-fiction book of the same name by J. Campbell Bruce and dramatizes the 1962 prisoner escape from the maximum security prison on Alcatraz Island. The film stars Clint Eastwood, and features Patrick McGoohan, Fred Ward, Jack Thibeau, and Larry Hankin. Danny Glover appears in his film debut. "Escape from Alcatraz" marks the fifth and final collaboration between Siegel and Eastwood, following "Coogan's Bluff" (1968), "Two Mules for Sister Sara" (1970), "The Beguiled" (1971), and "Dirty Harry" (1971).
Who was the director of Escape? [SEP] Kotaro Uchikoshi  Interested in narrative based games from a young age, Uchikoshi studied video game development at a vocational school. His first job in game development was at KID in 1998, where he primarily wrote scenarios for "bishōjo" games and other visual novels. These included "Memories Off" (1999) and "" (2000). In 2001, he left KID to become a freelance writer, and continued to work on visual novels. Uchikoshi joined Chunsoft in 2007, where he came up with the idea of integrating puzzles into a visual novel for the player to solve. He implemented this idea in "Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors" (2009), the first game in which he served as the director.  Both "Nine Hours, Nine Persons, Nine Doors" and its sequel "" (2012) were commercial failures in Japan. When Chunsoft put the "Zero Escape" series on hiatus, Uchikoshi returned to freelance work, and wrote his first anime series, "Punch Line" (2015). He also worked on a manga and video game adaptation of "Punch Line". A large fan presence helped revive the "Zero Escape" series, and Uchikoshi returned to write and direct the concluding installment, "Zero Time Dilemma" (2016). In 2017, he left Spike Chunsoft and formed the video game developer Too Kyo Games together with "Danganronpa" series staff members and his "Infinity" co-writer Takumi Nakazawa. Shortly after, he wrote the concept for the anime series "The Girl in Twilight" (2018), directed and wrote the adventure game "" (2019), and returned to write its sequel, "" (2022).
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP]  Are These Our Children? is a 1931 American pre-Code drama film directed by Wesley Ruggles and written by Howard Estabrook. The film stars Eric Linden, Ben Alexander, Beryl Mercer, Mary Kornman, Arline Judge, and Rochelle Hudson. The film was released on November 14, 1931 by RKO Pictures
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP]  Director Tom Shankland won the Special Mention Award at the Fantasia International Film Festival in 2009 for his professional approach to the children actors in the film.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP]  These Three is a 1936 American drama film directed by William Wyler and starring Miriam Hopkins, Merle Oberon, Joel McCrea, and Bonita Granville. The screenplay by Lillian Hellman is based on her 1934 play The Children's Hour. A 1961 remake of the film, also directed by Wyler, was released as The Children's Hour in the US and The Loudest Whisper in the UK.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP]  Children of Jerusalem is a series of 7 documentary films directed by Beverly Shaffer, a Canadian filmmaker, between 1991 and 1996. The series show the life in Jerusalem from the distinct points of view of the municipality's children of various cultural, economic, social and religious backgrounds.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP]  The 51st State. He also worked as a producer for CBS Reports for five years. His documentary films won numerous awards and honors. Children of Darkness (1983), which explored the lack of proper mental health care for seriously emotionally disturbed children in America, received four Emmys and was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Feature Length Documentary. Kotuk and Ara Chekmayan, the film's co-producer and co-writer, faced some challenges in trying to gain permission to shoot at certain locations. The New York State Office of Mental Health denied them access to film at South Beach Psychiatric Center on Staten Island. To get around that, Kotuk and Chekmayan hid the identities of individuals who were willing to speak with them and they also shot with a hidden camera.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP] There's Something Wrong with the Children  There's Something Wrong with the Children is an upcoming American horror film directed by Roxanne Benjamin and written by T. J. Cimfel and David White. The film stars Alisha Wainwright, Zach Gilford, Amanda Crew, and Carlos Santos. Jason Blum serves as an executive producer through his Blumhouse Television banner.  "There's Something Wrong with the Children" is scheduled to be released digitally in the United States on January 17, 2023, by Paramount Pictures, and on March 17, 2023, by MGM+.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP] Children of Men  Children of Men is a 2006 dystopian action thriller film co-written and directed by Alfonso Cuarón. The screenplay, based on P. D. James' 1992 novel "The Children of Men", was credited to five writers, with Clive Owen making uncredited contributions. The film takes place in 2027, when two decades of human infertility have left society on the brink of collapse. Asylum seekers seek sanctuary in the United Kingdom, where they are subjected to detention and refoulement by the government. Owen plays civil servant Theo Faron, who must help refugee Kee (Clare-Hope Ashitey) escape the chaos. "Children of Men" also stars Julianne Moore, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Pam Ferris, Charlie Hunnam, and Michael Caine.  The film was released by Universal Pictures on 22 September 2006 in the UK and on 25 December in the US. Critics noted the relationship between the US' Christmas opening and the film's themes of hope, redemption, and faith. Despite the limited release and lack of any clear marketing strategy during awards season by the film's distributor, "Children of Men" received critical acclaim and was recognised for its achievements in screenwriting, cinematography, art direction, and innovative single-shot action sequences. It was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, and Best Film Editing. It was also nominated for three BAFTA Awards, winning Best Cinematography and Best Production Design, and for three Saturn Awards, winning Best Science Fiction Film. In 2016 it was voted 13th among 100 films considered the best of the 21st century by 117 film critics from around the world.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP] Alfred Hitchcock  Sir Alfred Joseph Hitchcock (13 August 1899 – 29 April 1980) was an English filmmaker. He is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in the history of cinema.<ref name="influential" /> In a career spanning six decades, he directed over 50 feature films, many of which are still widely watched and studied today. Known as the "Master of Suspense", he became as well known as any of his actors thanks to his many interviews, his cameo roles in most of his films, and his hosting and producing the television anthology "Alfred Hitchcock Presents" (1955–65). His films garnered 46 Academy Award nominations, including six wins, although he never won the award for Best Director despite five nominations.  Hitchcock initially trained as a technical clerk and copy writer before entering the film industry in 1919 as a title card designer. His directorial debut was the British-German silent film "The Pleasure Garden" (1925). His first successful film, "" (1927), helped to shape the thriller genre, and "Blackmail" (1929) was the first British "". "The Birds" (1963) and "Marnie" (1964) were also financially successful and are highly regarded by film historians.  The "Hitchcockian" style includes the use of editing and camera movement to mimic a person's gaze, thereby turning viewers into voyeurs, and framing shots to maximise anxiety and fear. The film critic Robin Wood wrote that the meaning of a Hitchcock film "is there in the method, in the progression from shot to shot. A Hitchcock film is an organism, with the whole implied in every detail and every detail related to the whole." Hitchcock made multiple films with some of the biggest stars in Hollywood, including four with Cary Grant in the 1940s and 1950s, three with Ingrid Bergman in the second half of the 1940s, four with James Stewart over a decade commencing in 1948, and three consecutive with Grace Kelly in the mid-1950s. Hitchcock became an American citizen in 1955.  In 2012, Hitchcock's psychological thriller "Vertigo", starring Stewart, displaced Orson Welles' "Citizen Kane" (1941) as the British Film Institute's greatest film ever made based on its world-wide poll of hundreds of film critics.<ref name=Christie2012/> , nine of his films had been selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry, including his personal favourite, "Shadow of a Doubt" (1943). He received the BAFTA Fellowship in 1971, the AFI Life Achievement Award in 1979, and was knighted in December that year, four months before his death on 29 April 1980.<ref name=Todd30April1980/>
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP] Danny Boyle  Daniel Francis Boyle (born 20 October 1956) is an English director and producer. He is known for his work on films including "Shallow Grave", "Trainspotting" and its sequel "T2 Trainspotting", "The Beach", "28 Days Later", "Sunshine", "Slumdog Millionaire", "127 Hours", "Steve Jobs "and "Yesterday".  Boyle's debut film "Shallow Grave" won the BAFTA Award for Best British Film. The British Film Institute ranked "Trainspotting" the 10th greatest British film of the 20th century. Boyle's 2008 film "Slumdog Millionaire", the most successful British film of the decade, was nominated for ten Academy Awards and won eight, including the Academy Award for Best Director. He also won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Director. Boyle was presented with the Extraordinary Contribution to Filmmaking Award at the 2008 Austin Film Festival, where he also introduced that year's AFF Audience Award Winner "Slumdog Millionaire".  In 2012, Boyle was the artistic director for "Isles of Wonder", the opening ceremony of the 2012 Summer Olympics. He was subsequently offered a knighthood as part of the New Year Honours but declined due to his republican beliefs. In 2014, it was announced that Boyle would become a patron of HOME in Manchester.
Who was the director of These Children? [SEP] Sofia Coppola  Sofia Carmina Coppola (; born May 14, 1971) is an American filmmaker and actress. The youngest child and only daughter of filmmakers Eleanor and Francis Ford Coppola, she made her film debut as an infant in her father's acclaimed crime drama film "The Godfather" (1972). Coppola later appeared in several music videos, as well as a supporting role in "Peggy Sue Got Married" (1986). Coppola then portrayed Mary Corleone, the daughter of Michael Corleone, in "The Godfather Part III" (1990). She then turned her attention to filmmaking.  Coppola made her feature-length directorial debut with the coming-of-age drama "The Virgin Suicides" (1999). It was the first of her collaborations with actress Kirsten Dunst. In 2004, Coppola received the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay for the comedy-drama "Lost in Translation" and became the third woman to be nominated for an Academy Award for Best Director. In 2006, Coppola directed the historical drama "Marie Antoinette", starring Dunst as the title character. In 2010, with the drama "Somewhere", Coppola became the first American woman (and fourth American filmmaker) to win the Golden Lion, the top prize at the Venice Film Festival. In 2013, she directed the satirical crime film "The Bling Ring", based on the crime ring of the same name which drew from the Vanity Fair article "The Suspects Wore Louboutins" by Nancy Jo Sales about the real group of burglarizing teens who were "motivated by vanity and worship." The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival.  In 2015, Coppola released the Christmas musical comedy special "A Very Murray Christmas", starring Bill Murray, on Netflix. It earned her a nomination for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Television Movie. At the 2017 Cannes Film Festival, she won Best Director for her work on the drama film "The Beguiled", becoming the second woman in the festival's history to win the award. Her latest film, "On the Rocks", received a limited theatrical release in October 2020 by A24 as well as a streaming release on Apple TV+.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Henki Kolstad - Hans ; Jack Kennedy - Eddie, captain ; Randi Kolstad - Kristin ; Bjarne Andersen - Stråmannen ; Jens Bolling - Knut ; Einar Vaage - Edvartsen, churchwarden ; Samuel Matlowsky - Leo, sergeant ; Lee Payant - Fiorello, 2nd lt. ; John Robbins - Don, sergeant ; Lee Zimmer - Steve, sergeant ; Chris Bugge - Mart, 1st lt. ; Joachim Holst-Jensen - Willie, the vicar (as J. Holst Jensen)
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP]  As a direct result of the crash of flight RFT111 and the response to it, the head of the national emergency response department, IGSU, resigned. One day later, also as a result, the Interior Minister Radu Stroe resigned. A passenger on board had died of hypothermia after surviving the crash because of the long emergency response. This has led to an overhaul of the country's emergency response methods. In response to an open letter, Gary Machado, Executive Director of European Emergency Number Association assigned blame for the situation on Neelie Kroes, who at the time of the incident had not enacted European-level regulation requiring provision of GPS co-ordinates in emergencies. The lack of provision of this critical information from the mobile company of the 112 caller to the emergency services was recognised as a major factor in the lethal delay in the rescue.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP]  Emergency Landing (a.k.a. Robot Pilot) is a 1941 American aviation spy-fi romantic screwball comedy film directed by William Beaudine. The film stars Forrest Tucker in his second film and in his first leading role with co-stars Carol Hughes and Evelyn Brent. Emergency Landing features much mismatched stock footage of various types of aircraft.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP]  Shortly after release, Emergency Landing was re-titled Robot Pilot. Merely a B film, Variety felt the film's major asset was "sex appeal".
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP]  Emergency Landing (Nødlanding) is a 1952 Norwegian war film directed by Arne Skouen. It was entered into the 1952 Cannes Film Festival. The film depicts the Norwegian resistance attempting to hide shot-down American aviators from the German occupation forces.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Crash Landing on You  Crash Landing on You<ref name="Netflix"/> () is a 2019–2020 South Korean television series written by Park Ji-eun, directed by Lee Jeong-hyo and starring Hyun Bin, Son Ye-jin, Seo Ji-hye, and Kim Jung-hyun. It is about a successful South Korean businesswoman and chaebol heiress who, while paragliding near Seoul, South Korea, is swept up in a sudden storm, crash-lands in the North Korean portion of the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ), and meets an army captain and son of the Director of the GBP in the Korean People's Army who decides he will help her hide. Over time, they fall in love, despite the divide and dispute between their respective countries.  The series aired on tvN in South Korea and on Netflix worldwide from December 14, 2019, to February 16, 2020. It is the highest-rated tvN drama and the fourth highest-rated South Korean TV drama in cable television history.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Emergency Landing (1941 film)  Emergency Landing (a.k.a. Robot Pilot) is a 1941 American aviation spy-fi romantic screwball comedy film directed by William Beaudine. The film stars Forrest Tucker in his second film and in his first leading role with co-stars Carol Hughes and Evelyn Brent. "Emergency Landing" features much mismatched stock footage of various types of aircraft.  Section::::Plot. Arizona inventor "Doc" Williams (Emmett Vogan) has invented a wireless remote control that can pilot an aircraft. Despite his efforts and those of his friend, pilot Jerry Barton (Forrest Tucker), they can not interest anyone in the invention. Barton has found a job as a test pilot for a millionaire named George Lambert (William Halligan) with his own aircraft company. When Doc brings a model of his invention, the two send their model aircraft to buzz Lambert on the golf course. Lambert is fascinated and arranges a test, but his daughter Betty is not, especially when the model lands in a puddle and drenches her.  When the time comes for a test of the device installed in a real aircraft, Jerry takes the aircraft up and switches to remote control. United States Army Air Forces observers are skeptical that Jerry is flying the aircraft himself so Jerry parachutes out of the aircraft. The device, however, is not perfected and the aircraft crashes. The event is observed by foreign agents working undercover at Lambert Aircraft. Doc and Jerry return in failure to Arizona to perfect the device.  At the same time Betty announces she wishes to go to Hollywood, with her Aunt Maude. When their vehicle runs out of petrol near Indian Springs, Arizona, the girls decide to steal petrol from an aerodrome beacon but are caught by Jerry who tows their car to Doc's house. As Jerry is a local Federal Aviation Administration official, he has the authority to arrest the girls until Judge Gildersleeve comes. The girls hear tales of his imaginary severe sentences. Jerry telegraphs George Lambert about what they have done and asks his permission to teach the haughty Betty a lesson. The girls have to do housework but Maude later overhears the boys' scheme and wins them over by saying it is a great idea, as Betty spoiled since childhood, needs a comeuppance.  Meanwhile, the two enemy agents hijack a new Lambert-designed bomber being tested at Lambert Field. When the bomber crashes nearby with one agent (I. Stanford Jolley) surviving, he makes his way to Doc and Jerry's house, pretending he has been in an automobile accident. When Doc and Jerry learn the truth, the agent hijacks Doc's aircraft with the two girls as hostages. Doc's aircraft, however, has the remote control device installed that now works and Doc and Jerry are able to land the aircraft and capture the agent. The real Judge Gildersleeve (Billy Curtis), a midget, appears and fines the girls.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Sully (film)  Sully (also known as Sully: Miracle on the Hudson) is a 2016 American biographical drama film directed by Clint Eastwood and written by Todd Komarnicki, based on the 2009 autobiography "Highest Duty" by Chesley "Sully" Sullenberger and Jeffrey Skiles. Tom Hanks stars as Sullenberger, with Aaron Eckhart, Laura Linney, Anna Gunn, Autumn Reeser, Holt McCallany, and Jamey Sheridan. The film follows Sullenberger's January 2009 emergency landing of US Airways Flight 1549 on the Hudson River, in which all 155 passengers and crew survived - most suffering only minor injuries - and the subsequent publicity and investigation.  "Sully" premiered at the 43rd Annual Telluride Film Festival on September 2, 2016, and was released in the United States by Warner Bros. on September 9, 2016, in conventional and IMAX theaters. The film received positive reviews from critics and grossed over $240 million worldwide, but created controversy with its fictionalized portrayal of the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) as "prosecutorial and closed-minded." The American Film Institute and National Board of Review both selected it as one of their ten best films of 2016, and it was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Sound Editing at the 89th Academy Awards.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Emergency landing  An emergency landing is a premature landing made by an aircraft in response to an emergency involving an imminent or ongoing threat to the safety and operation of the aircraft, or involving a sudden need for a passenger or crew on board to terminate the flight (such as a medical emergency). It typically involves a forced diversion to the nearest or most suitable airport or airbase, or an off airport landing or ditching if the flight cannot reach an airfield. Flights under air traffic control will be given priority over all other aircraft operations upon the declaration of the emergency.
Who was the director of Emergency Landing? [SEP] Emergency Declaration (film)  Emergency Declaration ( "Bisang Seoneon") is a 2021 South Korean aviation disaster-action film directed by Han Jae-rim and starring Song Kang-ho, Lee Byung-hun, Jeon Do-yeon, Kim Nam-gil, Im Si-wan, Kim So-jin and Park Hae-joon. Filming restarted on September 12, 2020, after postponement due to COVID-19 resurgence in August 2020. The film was wrapped up on October 24, 2020.   The film was first screened in the out of competition section of the 74th Cannes Film Festival on July 16, 2021.  Produced with cost of , the film opened at number one at South Korean box office and surpassed two million admissions in 18 days.<ref name="viewers:bo" /> It is currently the 6th highest-grossing Korean film of 2022 with a gross of US$19.1 million and 2 million viewers.<ref name="box:korea" />
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the series premiere of the 2009 reimagining of the 1983 miniseries V created by Kenneth Johnson. The episode's teleplay was written by Scott Peters, with story credit going to Johnson and Peters. Yves Simoneau directed the episode, which originally aired in the United States on ABC on November 3, 2009. The episode sees spaceships appear over 29 of the world's major cities. Though the alien "Visitors" claim to come in peace, it transpires that they have been infiltrating the planet for decades, and are planning on enslaving the human species. Parallels have been drawn between the Visitors and US Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, though Peters and co-producer Jeffrey Bell refute that they were intentional. Bell feels that while the original series
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  The Pilot (also known as Danger in the Skies) is a 1980 American action-drama film by director and star Cliff Robertson and is based on the novel of the same name by Robert P. Davis.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  Pilots is a 2000 Indian Malayalam-language drama film written and directed by Rajiv Anchal and produced by Menaka under Revathy Kalamandhir. Starring Suresh Gopi, Sreenivasan, and Praveena.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  of season 4 of American television series, believed to be directed by Joseph L. Scanlan. ; Riviera, 1987 ABC-TV movie intended as pilot, directed by John Frankenheimer. ; MacGyver, "Pilot", directed by Jerrold Freedman, and "The Heist", director unknown (1985). ; Moonlight, TV movie and pilot for an unsold series (1982) (not to be confused with the later CBS vampire series), directed by Jackie Cooper and Rod Holcomb. ; The Owl, 1991 television film credited to director Tom Holland when originally broadcast. Holland approved of the 46-minute television cut but disliked the extended 84-minute home video cut and credited it to "Alan Smithee".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the period drama television series The Americans. It originally aired on FX in the United States on January 30, 2013. The episode was written by series creator Joe Weisberg and directed by Gavin O'Connor. In 1981, shortly after the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings (Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell) are undercover Soviet intelligence agents from the secretive Directorate S of the KGB sent to the U.S. 15 years ago to work deep cover in Washington, D.C. Their assumed identities are a married couple who run a travel agency, and even their own children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati) do not know their secret. Reviews for the episode were largely positive. Critics commented on the lead performances of Russell, Rhys, and Noah Emmerich. In the United States, the series premiere achieved a viewership of 3.22 million.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] David Nutter  David Nutter (born 1960) is an American television and film director and television producer. He is best known for directing pilot episodes for television. In 2015, he received a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series, for his work on the HBO series "Game of Thrones".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Flight director (aeronautics)  In aviation, a flight director (FD) is a flight instrument that is overlaid on the attitude indicator that shows the pilot of an aircraft the attitude required to execute the desired flight path. Flight directors are mostly commonly used during approach and landing. They can be used with or without autopilot systems.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] The Pilot (Seinfeld)  "The Pilot" is the two-part season finale episode of season four of "Seinfeld", comprising the season's 23rd and 24th episodes (63rd and 64th episodes in the series). It first aired on May 20, 1993.  This two-part episode aired at an earlier time, 8:00 PM, to leave room for the two-hour finale of "Cheers", whose timeslot was subsequently claimed by "Seinfeld" at the start of the new fall season.   About 32 million people watched both parts of "The Pilot" when it initially aired. An additional 2 million watched the first part but not the second, and 3 million more watched the second part but not the first.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Howard Hughes  Howard Robard Hughes Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976) was an American business magnate, record-setting pilot, engineer, film producer, and philanthropist, known during his lifetime as one of the most influential and richest people in the world. He first became prominent as a film producer, and then as an important figure in the aviation industry. Later in life, he became known for his eccentric behavior and reclusive lifestyle—oddities that were caused in part by his worsening obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), chronic pain from a near-fatal plane crash, and increasing deafness.  As a film tycoon, Hughes gained fame in Hollywood beginning in the late 1920s, when he produced big-budget and often controversial films such as "The Racket" (1928), "Hell's Angels" (1930), and "Scarface" (1932). He later acquired the RKO Pictures film studio in 1948, recognized then as one of the Big Five studios of Hollywood's Golden Age, although the production company struggled under his control and ultimately ceased operations in 1957.  Through his interest in aviation and aerospace travel, Hughes formed the Hughes Aircraft Company in 1932, hiring numerous engineers, designers, and defense contractors.  During his final years, Hughes extended his financial empire to include several major businesses in Las Vegas, such as real estate, hotels, casinos, and media outlets. Known at the time as one of the most powerful men in the state of Nevada, he is largely credited with transforming Vegas into a more refined cosmopolitan city. After years of mental and physical decline, Hughes died of kidney failure in 1976. His legacy is maintained through the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Howard Hughes Corporation.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP]  La Rival ("The Rival") is a 1955 Mexican film. It was directed by Chano Urueta.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP]  The Rival (La rivale) is a 1955 Italian-French melodrama film directed by Anton Giulio Majano.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP]  Rivals (Les Liens du sang) is a 2008 French action film directed by Jacques Maillot.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] Guillaume Canet as François ; François Cluzet as Gabriel ; Clotilde Hesme as Corinne ; Marie Denarnaud as Nathalie ; Mehdi Nebbou as José Lazaga ; Olivier Perrier as Henri ; Carole Franck as Monique
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP]  Rivales is a 2008 Spanish comedy-sport film directed by Fernando Colomo and written by Joaquín Oristrell and Inés París. The plot follows an Under-12 Spanish football tournament.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] Mauricio de la Serna  Mauricio de la Serna (26 November 1902 – 20 March 1986) was a Mexican film director, screenwriter, and producer.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] Christian Poveda  Christian Gregorio Poveda Ruiz (January 12, 1957 – September 2, 2009), known as Christian Poveda, was a Hispanic-French photojournalist and film director. He covered the world's conflict zones for more than 30 years. Poveda's documentary film "" (2008) is about two rival gangs in El Salvador.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] C.D. Guadalajara  Club Deportivo Guadalajara (); often simply known as Guadalajara () and their nickname Chivas (), is a Mexican professional football club based in Zapopan, Jalisco. Guadalajara is one of the ten founding members of the Mexican First Division and along with Club América is one of only two teams that have never been relegated to the second-tier division.  Guadalajara is the only football club in Mexico that does not allow foreign players to play for their club. The team has constantly emphasized home-grown ("cantera") players and has been the launching pad of many internationally successful players, including, Javier Hernández, Carlos Vela and Carlos Salcido. The team's three colors (red, white, and blue) symbolize "Fraternity, Union, and Sports". The founders of the team adopted the colors that linked them back to their home country, France. Chivas supporters use a flag identical to the French flag to support their team. The team mascot, as well as their nickname, is the goat or "chiva". Chivas is one of Mexico's most successful teams Internationally, Guadalajara is the best Mexican side to compete in Copa Libertadores having reached the semifinals twice (2005 and 2006) and being runner-ups in the 2010 edition.  According to a 2016 study of preferred football clubs Guadalajara is the most popular team in Mexico, with 44.2% of supporters in the country. In 2020, "Forbes" estimated that the club was the most valuable of the league, ranking sixth overall in the Americas, worth approximately $311.5 million.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] RC Celta de Vigo  Real Club Celta de Vigo (; ), commonly known as Celta de Vigo or simply Celta, is a Spanish professional football club based in Vigo, Galicia, that competes in La Liga, the top tier of Spanish football. Nicknamed "Os Celestes" (The Sky Blues), the club was founded on 1923 as "Club Celta", following the merger of two Vigo-based teams. The club's home stadium is Balaídos, which seats 29,000 spectators.  The club's name is derived from the Celts, a people who once lived in the region. Its main rival is fellow Galician club Deportivo La Coruña, with whom it contests the Galician derby.  Celta have never won the league title nor Copa del Rey, although they have reached the final three times in the latter. The club finished in their best-ever position of fourth in 2002–03, qualifying for the 2003–04 UEFA Champions League, where they were eliminated by Arsenal in the round of 16. In the 2016–17 UEFA Europa League, Celta reached the semi-finals for the first time, losing to Manchester United.
Who was the director of La Rival? [SEP] Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football  The Louisiana Tech Bulldogs football team represent Louisiana Tech University in college football at the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision (formerly Division I-A) level. After 12 seasons in the Western Athletic Conference, Louisiana Tech began competing as a member of Conference USA in 2013. Since 1968, the Bulldogs have played their home games at Joe Aillet Stadium. Since its first season in 1901, Louisiana Tech has compiled an all-time record of 641 wins, 487 losses, and 38 ties. In 122 football seasons, the Bulldogs have won 3 Division II national championships, won 25 conference championships, and played in 28 postseason games, including 13 major college bowl games. The Bulldogs are currently coached by Sonny Cumbie.
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP] Echo Presenta: Invasion (2007)
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP] ECHO (Short) - (2017) ; Another Love (Short) - (2015) ; Project Kronos (Short) - 2013
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP]  film freak!” In early 2016 and with the acclaim of Another Love, Victor began writing and directing his second short film ECHO. Unlike Another Love, Perez focused on ECHO as a way of bringing together his abilities as VFX artist to explore new ways of storytelling. The experimental film is about girl who wakes up in the middle of nowhere only to see her reflection in a mirror 10 seconds ahead of her time. When she wakes up again, the nightmare starts over. To create this never-before-seen mirroring footage, ECHO featured a pioneering motion control technology that was developed at Stiller Studios in Stockholm, Sweden - by Tomas Tjernberg
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP]  Sittler got “Echo” going. John was an original and this showed itself in his creation Aiglon and its most characteristic custom: the morning Meditation. He collected art and had a weakness for Jaguars (petrol driven). He was a master of publicity and used this much to the benefit of his school. During the first American conference at Athenian in 1972, Aiglon gave a reception in San Francisco and a very fine film of the school was shown with a commentary by the best of the BBC announcers. It began with the camera swinging through the arc of mountains between Aiguille Verte and
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP]  Marsalis made her directorial debut with the film Echo Park starring Mamie Gummer and Tony Okungbowa. The film premiered at the 2014 Los Angeles Film Festival. It was acquired for distribution in 2016 by ARRAY. She said that Rebecca Walker, an author with whom she had worked previously, referred her to the producers when they said they were looking for a director.
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP]
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP] Echo Films  Echo Films is an American production company founded in April 2008 by American actress Jennifer Aniston and production partner Kristin Hahn. Echo Films has a production deal with Universal Pictures.<ref name="variety.com"/> The company produces projects for both film and television. Most of the projects star Jennifer Aniston.
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP] Echo 3  Echo 3 is an American action thriller television series created by Mark Boal. The series, filmed in English and Spanish, stars Michiel Huisman and Luke Evans and is a black ops thriller and tale of international intrigue, set in Colombia, and shot almost entirely on location in 2021. It is based on the Israeli award-winning series "When Heroes Fly" created by Omri Givon, and inspired by the eponymous novel of Amir Gutfreund.  "Echo 3" premiered on Apple TV+ on November 23, 2022.
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP]
Who was the director of Echo? [SEP] Dave Green (director)  Dave Green (born 1983) is an American film and music video director. He is well known for directing several music videos and short films, especially working with Miles Fisher. He made his directorial debut with the 2014 film "Earth to Echo", and then directed the 2016 film, "". He is set to direct "Coyote vs. Acme" for Warner Bros..
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap (La Gabbia), also known as Collector's Item, Dead Fright and The Cage, is a 1985 erotic thriller directed by Giuseppe Patroni Griffi (his last theatrical film), and starring Tony Musante, Laura Antonelli, and Florinda Bolkan. Famed Italian horror director Lucio Fulci contributed to the screenplay (this film was done during the time Fulci was recovering from hepatitus, so he was unable to direct it). The film is based on a story called "L'Occhio", written by filmmaker Francesco Barilli. Barilli intended to make the film himself, but had trouble securing backing and balked at the producers wanting Shelly Winters in the lead role. So he sold the idea to Griffi and let him produce and direct it, retitling it The Trap. Barilli said of the finished product "Lets' talk frankly here, that movie sucks...." and Fulci even used profanity alluding to his opinion of Griffi, who he felt stole his chance to direct the film.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap is a 1913 American silent short drama film directed by Edwin August, produced by Pat Powers, and starring Murdock MacQuarrie, Pauline Bush and Lon Chaney. The film is now considered lost. Chaney would later appear in an unrelated film of the same name in 1922.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap (Spanish: La trampa) is a 1949 Argentine thriller film directed by Carlos Hugo Christensen and starring Zully Moreno, George Rigaud, and Juana Sujo. A woman marries a man without understanding the darker depths of his personality.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap (Past) is a 1950 Czech drama film directed by Martin Frič. It was entered into the 1951 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP]  The Trap is a 1959 color film noir directed by Norman Panama and released through Paramount Pictures. It stars Richard Widmark, Lee J. Cobb, Tina Louise, Earl Holliman, and Lorne Greene.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP] The Parent Trap (1998 film)  The Parent Trap is a 1998 American romantic comedy film directed and co-written by Nancy Meyers, and produced and co-written by Charles Shyer. It is a remake of the 1961 film of the same name and an adaptation of Erich Kästner's 1949 German novel "Lisa and Lottie" ("Das doppelte Lottchen").  Dennis Quaid and Natasha Richardson star as a divorced couple who separated shortly after their identical twin daughters' birth; Lindsay Lohan stars (in her film debut) as both twins, Hallie Parker and Annie James, who are fortuitously reunited at summer camp after being separated at birth. David Swift wrote the screenplay for the original 1961 film based on "Lottie and Lisa". Swift is credited along with Meyers and Shyer as co-writers of the 1998 version.  "The Parent Trap" was theatrically released in the United States on July 29, 1998 and was a box-office hit, grossing $92.1 million against a $15 million budget. It received positive reviews from critics, with Lohan's performance in particular earning high praise.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP] Tourist Trap (film)  Tourist Trap is a 1979 American supernatural slasher film directed by David Schmoeller and starring Chuck Connors, Jocelyn Jones, Jon Van Ness, Robin Sherwood, and Tanya Roberts. The film follows a group of young people who stumble upon a roadside museum run by a lonely eccentric, where an unknown killer with telekinetic powers begins to murder them. Schmoeller co-wrote the script with J. Larry Carroll who served as producer for the film alongside famous producer/director Charles Band.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP] Night Trap  Night Trap is a 1992 interactive movie developed by Digital Pictures and published by Sega for the Sega CD. Presented primarily through full-motion video (FMV), "Night Trap" tasks the player to observe teenage girls having a sleepover visiting a house which, unbeknownst to them, is infested with vampires. The player watches live surveillance footage and triggers traps to capture anyone endangering the girls. The player can switch between different cameras to keep watch over the girls and eavesdrop on conversations to follow the story and listen for clues.  The "Night Trap" concept originated in a 1986 prototype game developed by Axlon to demonstrate their Control-Vision game console to Hasbro. The system used VHS tape technology to present film-like gaming experiences. With the system picked up by Hasbro, the production of "Night Trap" commenced. The video footage was recorded in 1987, followed by six months of editing and game programming. Hasbro suddenly canceled the Control-Vision in 1989, which prompted the game's executive producer, Tom Zito, to purchase the film footage and found Digital Pictures to complete "Night Trap". "Night Trap" was eventually released in October 1992 as the first interactive movie on the Sega CD.  "Night Trap" received mixed reviews; critics praised the B movie-esque quality, humor, and video animation, but criticized the gameplay as shallow. The game was one of the principal subjects of a 1993 United States Senate committee hearing on violent video games, along with "Mortal Kombat". "Night Trap" was cited during the hearing as promoting gratuitous violence and sexual aggression against women, prompting toy retailers Toys "R" Us and Kay-Bee Toys to pull the game from shelves that December, and Sega to cease producing copies in January 1994. The Senate hearing led to the creation of the Entertainment Software Rating Board (ESRB), the North American video game ratings board still used today.  After the controversy subsided, "Night Trap" was ported to other consoles, including the 32X, 3DO Interactive Multiplayer, MS-DOS, and Mac OS. It was re-released in 2017 and 2018 for eighth-generation consoles to mark its 25th anniversary. Retrospective reviews of "Night Trap" were negative, owing to FMV's aging appeal as a game medium, and it has been cited as one of the worst video games of all time.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP] The Parent Trap (1961 film)  The Parent Trap is a 1961 American romantic comedy film written and directed by David Swift. It stars Hayley Mills (in a dual role) as a pair of teenage twins plotting to reunite their divorced parents by changing places. Maureen O'Hara, and Brian Keith play the parents. Although the plot is very close to that of the 1945 film "Twice Blessed", "The Parent Trap" is based upon the 1949 book "Lisa and Lottie" (German: ) by Erich Kästner .   Produced by Walt Disney Productions, "The Parent Trap" was released on June 21, 1961, by Buena Vista Distribution. It grossed $25.1 million at the box office and was nominated for two Academy Awards. It was broadcast on television, and three television sequels followed the later adventures of the twins. The film was remade in 1998 with Lindsay Lohan. It was released on VHS, in digital stereo LaserDisc format (1986), and on DVD (2002). "The Parent Trap" was the second of six films Mills made for Disney.
Who was the director of The Trap? [SEP] Jaal: The Trap  Jaal: The Trap is a 2003 Indian Hindi-language action-thriller film directed by Guddu Dhanoa. It stars Sunny Deol, Tabu, Reema Sen and Anupam Kher. It was released on 18 July 2003.
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP]  Cocktail is a 1988 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Roger Donaldson and written by Heywood Gould, whose screenplay was based on his book of the same name. The film tells the story of a young New York City business student, Brian Flanagan, who takes up bartending in order to make ends meet. The film stars Tom Cruise, Bryan Brown, and Elisabeth Shue. Released on July 29, 1988, by Buena Vista Pictures (under its adult film label Touchstone Pictures), Cocktail features an original music score composed by J. Peter Robinson. Despite earning overwhelmingly negative reviews from critics, and winning the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Picture, the film was a huge box office success, grossing more than $170 million worldwide against a budget of $20 million.
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP]  Cocktail is a 2010 Malayalam thriller film edited and directed by Arun Kumar Aravind. The film stars Jayasurya, Anoop Menon, and Samvrutha Sunil in the lead roles, while Fahadh Faasil, Aparna Nair, Innocent, and Mamukkoya play supporting roles. The film released on 22 October 2010. The film was co-written by Anoop Menon and is an uncredited remake of the Canadian film Butterfly on a Wheel. It was the directorial debut of film editor Arun Kumar.
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP]  A music score was originally done by Maurice Jarre. A new score was added at the last minute. Kelly Lynch later said the film "was actually a really complicated story about the '80s and power and money, and it was really re-edited where they completely lost my character's backstory—her low self-esteem, who her father was, why she was this person that she was—but it was obviously a really successful movie, if not as good as it could've been." She claimed Disney reshot "about a third of the film... and turned it into flipping the bottles and this and that.... But we had a really great time. And Tom was so much fun, just a ball to work with, both on and off camera."
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP]  "Cocktails" was written by Paul Lieberstein, who plays Human Resources representative Toby Flenderson on the series. Lost series creator J. J. Abrams was hired on as episode director, his first such credit for the series. Abrams disliked the American series when it first premiered, due to his love for the original British series. The director explained, "I resented it before I saw it, because I thought, 'well, how are you going to do what Ricky and Steve did. In fact, the first season I didn't get into it at all. In the second season, they really found their voice. And that's despite having to make 22 episodes, which is twice the length of what the BBC show did. And I thought that the show became brilliant. I was
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP]  Cocky Brian Flanagan is eager to land a high-powered job in the business world in New York City. When he fails, he settles for work as a bartender while attending business school during the day. An older and more experienced bartender, Doug Coughlin, takes him under his wing and the two become friends, with Doug giving Brian the idea for a nationwide chain of bars called Cocktails and Dreams. Brian drops out of business school and he and Doug become popular bartenders at a trendy nightclub. Eventually, their act catches the eye of Coral, a wealthy photographer and she and Brian begin dating. Doug bets Brian that the relationship won't last and, unbeknownst
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP] Cocktail (2012 film)  Cocktail is a 2012 Indian Hindi-language romantic comedy-drama film directed by Homi Adajania and written by Imtiaz Ali. It was produced by Saif Ali Khan and Dinesh Vijan on a budget of ₹35 crore. The film stars Saif Ali Khan, Deepika Padukone, Diana Penty, Dimple Kapadia, Boman Irani and Randeep Hooda. The film score and soundtrack was composed by Pritam, Yo Yo Honey Singh and Salim–Sulaiman.  "Cocktail" was released theatrically worldwide on 13 July 2012 and became a commercial success, grossing ₹126 crore worldwide, and was one of the highest grossing Hindi films of 2012. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised the direction, soundtrack, humor and the performances of the cast, with particular praise directed towards Padukone and Penty's performances, proving to be a breakthrough for them. The film marked a significant turning point in Padukone's career, and elevated her position to the leading lady of Bollywood.   At the 58th Filmfare Awards, "Cocktail" received 4 nominations, including Best Actress (Padukone) and Best Female Debut (Penty).
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP] Cocktail (1988 film)  Cocktail is a 1988 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Roger Donaldson from a screenplay by Heywood Gould, based on Gould's book of the same name. The film tells the story of a young New York City business student, Brian Flanagan, who takes up bartending in order to make ends meet. The film stars Tom Cruise, Bryan Brown, and Elisabeth Shue.  Released on July 29, 1988, by Buena Vista Pictures (under its adult film label Touchstone Pictures), "Cocktail" features an original music score composed by J. Peter Robinson. Despite earning overwhelmingly negative reviews from critics, and winning the Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Picture, the film was a huge box office success, grossing more than $170 million worldwide against a budget of $20 million.
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP] Cocktail (2010 film)  Cocktail is a 2010 Malayalam-language thriller film edited and directed by Arun Kumar Aravind. The film stars Jayasurya, Anoop Menon, and Samvrutha Sunil in the lead roles, while Fahadh Faasil, Aparna Nair, Innocent, and Mamukkoya play supporting roles. The film released on 22 October 2010.  The film was co-written by Anoop Menon and is an uncredited remake of the Canadian film "Butterfly on a Wheel". It was the directorial debut of film editor Arun Kumar. The film was remade in Tamil as "Athithi" (2014).
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP] Homi Adajania  Homi Adajania (born 1972) is an Indian film director and writer. He made his directorial debut with "Being Cyrus" (2006), an English-language psychological drama. He followed this with the commercially successful Hindi-language romantic comedy "Cocktail" (2012). After this Adajania directed the satire "Finding Fanny".
Who was the director of Cocktail? [SEP] Cocktails (The Office)  "Cocktails" is the eighteenth episode of the third season of the American version of "The Office", and the show's forty-sixth episode overall. It was written by actor Paul Lieberstein and directed by "Lost" series creator J. J. Abrams. NBC hired Abrams and Joss Whedon to each direct an episode during their February sweeps week. Michael Patrick McGill, Dan Cole, Owen Daniels, and Jean Villepique guest starred.  In the episode, Michael, Dwight, Jim and Karen attend a cocktail party at CFO David Wallace's house. While there, Michael and Jan make their relationship public, Karen makes Jim uncomfortable by pointing out all of her ex-boyfriends in attendance, and Dwight inspects the home. Meanwhile, the rest of the office goes to a bar and Pam tries to be more honest with Roy.  The first American broadcast of "Cocktails" occurred on February 22, 2007, to an estimated 8.3 million viewers. The episode was positively received by television critics, with Kevin Fitzpatrick of UGO Networks calling it one of the best of the series.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Mother and Child is a 2009 drama directed and written by Rodrigo García. It premiered on September 14, 2009, at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival and at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2010, and was the closing night selection within Maryland Film Festival 2010. It was given a limited release in the United States beginning May 7, 2010.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP]  about the experience of having her first child (entitled 'Mother/Child') at numerous cabaret spaces and theatres from 1986–88, including the Susan Bloch Theater and Interart Theatre. In 1989, she began her professional theater directing career at the Producer's Club Theatre with LIARS, written by Elliot Meyers and starring James “Jimmy” Wlcek, Peter Sprague, Annie Hughes, and Joyce West. She followed LIARS with the critically acclaimed Larry Myers’ Gene Tierney Moved Next Door in 1994 at Theater for the New City, with Cynthia Enfield, Rik Walter and Tom Fenaughty. She worked with Larry Myers again two years later, directing Coffee With Kurt Cobain, starring Angelica Page Torn
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Having spent a few years in constant development it was decided to combine their many skills and create a feature film, entitled Mothers & Daughters. Six months were spent with actors devising and rehearsing the screenplay, followed by intense bursts of filming with breaks so that cast and crew could earn money to live on during production and so that Hannah and David could earn money to finance the next phase of filming! Finally producer and writer Lynda La Plante (Prime Suspect) saw a rough-cut of Mothers & Daughters and became their post production fairy Godmother. Mothers & Daughters was invited to film festivals worldwide, debuting at Cannes then playing at São Paulo, Montreal, Quebec, Barcelona, Chicago, New York, Los Angeles, The Hamptons, London and Dinard "Great performances, good pacing, sharp script", Variety declared, they were nominated - The Golden Hitchcock Award for Direction. Mothers & Daughters was selected as one of the top six British Films of the year.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP]  Little Mother (also known as Woman of the Year) is a 1973 drama, romance, cult film directed by Radley Metzger and starring Christiane Krüger, Siegfried Rauch and Ivan Desny. The story was loosely modelled on that of Evita Peron in Argentina. It was a co-production between the United States, West Germany and Yugoslavia.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP]  The film was written and directed by Milcho Manchevski, and produced by Christina Kallas. Vladimir Samoilovski was the director of photography, David Munns was the production designer, Zaklina Stojcevska edited the film, and the music was composed by Igor Vasilev and Novogradska. Principal photography took place in Mariovo, Macedonia, Kicevo, Macedonia, and Skopje, Macedonia.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother and Child (2009 film)  Mother and Child is a 2009 drama directed and written by Rodrigo García. It premiered on September 14, 2009, at the 2009 Toronto International Film Festival and at the Sundance Film Festival on January 23, 2010, and was the closing night selection within Maryland Film Festival 2010. It was given a limited release in the United States beginning May 7, 2010.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother!  Mother! (stylized as mother!) is a 2017 American psychological horror film written and directed by Darren Aronofsky, and starring Jennifer Lawrence, Javier Bardem, Ed Harris, Michelle Pfeiffer, Domhnall Gleeson, Brian Gleeson, and Kristen Wiig. It follows a young woman whose tranquil life with her husband at their country home is disrupted by the arrival of a mysterious couple.  The film premiered on September 5, 2017, at the 74th Venice International Film Festival, where it was selected to compete for the Golden Lion. It was released in the United States on September 15, 2017, by Paramount Pictures, and grossed $44 million worldwide against its $30 million budget. Although it received generally positive reviews, its biblical allegories and depiction of violence sparked controversy.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP] Darren Aronofsky  Darren Aronofsky (born February 12, 1969) is an American film director, producer, and screenwriter. His films are noted for their surrealistic, melodramatic, and sometimes disturbing elements, often in the form of psychological fiction.  Aronofsky attended Harvard University, where he studied film and social anthropology, and then the American Film Institute where he studied directing. He won several film awards after completing his senior thesis film, "Supermarket Sweep", which became a National Student Academy Award finalist. In 1997, he founded the film and TV production company Protozoa Pictures. His feature debut, the surrealist psychological thriller "Pi" (1998), was produced for $60,000 and grossed over $3 million; It won Aronofsky the Directing Award at the Sundance Film Festival and an Independent Spirit Award for Best First Screenplay.  Aronofsky's follow-up, the psychological drama "Requiem for a Dream" (2000), was based on the novel of the same name by Hubert Selby Jr. The film garnered strong reviews and received an Academy Award nomination for Ellen Burstyn's performance. After writing the World War II horror film "Below" (2002), Aronofsky began production on his third film, the romantic fantasy sci-fi drama "The Fountain" (2006). The film received mixed reviews and performed poorly at the box-office, but has since garnered a cult following.  His fourth film, the sports drama "The Wrestler" (2008), was released to critical acclaim and both of the film's stars, Mickey Rourke and Marisa Tomei, received Academy Award nominations. His next film, the psychological horror film "Black Swan" (2010), received further critical acclaim and many accolades, with five Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture and Best Director, and a Best Actress win for Natalie Portman. Aronofsky's sixth feature film, the biblically–inspired epic "Noah" (2014), became his first film to open at No. 1 at the box office despite its mixed reception from critics and audiences. His seventh and eighth films, "mother!" (2017) and "The Whale" (2022), sparked controversy upon release and polarized both critics and audiences.
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP] Mother Courage and Her Children  Mother Courage and Her Children () is a play written in 1939 by the German dramatist and poet Bertolt Brecht (1898–1956), with significant contributions from Margarete Steffin. Four theatrical productions were produced in Switzerland and Germany from 1941 to 1952, the last three supervised and/or directed by Brecht, who had returned to East Germany from the United States.  Several years after Brecht's death in 1956, the play was adapted as a German film, "Mutter Courage und ihre Kinder" (1961), starring Helene Weigel, Brecht's widow and a leading actress.  "Mother Courage" is considered by some to be the greatest play of the 20th century, and perhaps also the greatest anti-war play of all time. Critic Brett D. Johnson points out, "Although numerous theatrical artists and scholars may share artistic director Oskar Eustis's opinion that Brecht's masterpiece is the greatest play of the twentieth century, productions of "Mother Courage" remain a rarity in contemporary American theatre."
Who was the director of Mother and Child? [SEP] The Mother (2023 film)  The Mother is an upcoming American action drama film directed by Niki Caro with a screenplay by Misha Green, Andrea Berloff and Peter Craig, from a story by Green. The film stars Jennifer Lopez, Joseph Fiennes, Omari Hardwick, and Gael García Bernal.  "The Mother" is scheduled to be released in May 2023, by Netflix.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP]  The Pigskin Palooka is a 1937 Our Gang short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas. It was the 159th Our Gang short (160th episode, 70th talking short, and 71st talking episode) that was released.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP]  Hugh Chapman, Dix Davis, Barry Downing, Roger McGee, Fred Walburn, Robert Winkler
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP]  Daniel Boone, John Collum, Charles Flickinger, Larry Harris, Paul Hilton, Darwood Kaye, Tommy McFarland, Donald Proffitt, Drew Roddy, Harold Switzer
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP]  Barry Downing, Bobby Callahan, Dix Davis, Floyd Fisher, Vincent Graeff, Payne B. Johnson, Henry Lee, Joe Levine, Priscilla Lyon, Drew Roddy, Norman Salling, Joe Straunch, Jr., Fred Walburn, Robert Winckler
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP] Carl Switzer as Alfalfa ; Darla Hood as Darla ; Eugene Lee as Porky ; George McFarland as Spanky ; Billie Thomas as Buckwheat ; Pete The Pup as Himself
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP] The Pigskin Palooka  The Pigskin Palooka is a 1937 "Our Gang" short comedy film directed by Gordon Douglas. It was the 159th "Our Gang" short (160th episode, 70th talking short, and 71st talking episode) that was released.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP] John Collum  John K. Collum (June 29, 1926 — August 28, 1962) was an American child actor. He appeared in many "Our Gang" films of the 1930s as the character Uh-Huh.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP] Dick Jones (actor)  Richard Percy Jones (February 25, 1927 – July 7, 2014), known as Dick Jones or Dickie Jones, was an American actor and singer who achieved success as a child performer and as a young adult, especially in B-Westerns. In 1938, he played Artimer "Artie" Peters, nephew of Buck Peters, in the Hopalong Cassidy film "The Frontiersman". He may be best known as the voice of Pinocchio in Walt Disney's film of the same name.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP] Gary Jasgur  Gary Jasgur (November 8, 1935 – August 22, 1994) was an American former child actor, most notable for appearing in the "Our Gang" short film series from 1937 to 1939.
Who was the director of The Pigskin Palooka? [SEP]
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP]  Presidents and Public Opinion (New York: Wiley, originally published in 1973) was awarded the first Warren J. Mitofsky Award for Excellence in Public Opinion Research by the Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at the University of Connecticut in 2007, for being "a trailblazing book in public opinion research, in political science, and in the use of the Roper Center's data." This book featured the first definition of what is known as the Rally Round the Flag Syndrome. It also analyzed press coverage of the Tet offensive, 1968, in the Vietnam War. Although primarily known as a political scientist, Mueller is also an expert on filmed dance and a leading authority on the work
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP]  Public Opinion is a 1935 American drama film directed by Frank R. Strayer and starring Lois Wilson, Crane Wilbur and Shirley Grey.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP]  Dr. Steven Kull is a political psychologist who studies the impact of public opinion on public policy. He has conducted polls and focus groups in over 30 countries around the world. He has led in-depth studies in the United States and the Muslim world, as well as numerous large multi-nation studies of world public opinion. Kull appears regularly in international media and has testified to or consulted with the U.S. Congress, the U.S. State Department, the United Nations, NATO, the European Commission, and other agencies. Kull is director of the Program for Public Consultation (PPC), part of the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland. PPC was established to develop the methods and theory of public consultation and to conduct public consultations. In particular it
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP]  Public Opinion was a British magazine that ran from 1861 to 1951. It was a weekly "review of current thought and activity", published in London by G. Cole. An 82 reel microfilm was published by the Library of Congress in 1972.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP]  Public Opinion is a surviving 1916 American silent drama film produced by Jesse Lasky and distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was directed by Frank Reicher and stars Blanche Sweet. Margaret Turnbull provided the original screen story and scenario. Public Opinion is one of very few of Blanche Sweet's Paramount Pictures films still in existence. It is preserved by the Library of Congress.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP] Roper Center for Public Opinion Research  The Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at Cornell University is the world's oldest archive of social science data and the largest specializing in data from public opinion surveys. It's collection includes over 24,000 datasets and more than 820,000 questions with responses in Roper iPoll, adding hundreds more each year. The archive contains responses from millions of individuals on a vast range of topics. The current executive director of the center is Jonathon P. Schuldt, Associate Professor of Communication at Cornell University, with a governing board of directors chaired by Robert Y. Shapiro of Columbia University.  The Roper Center focuses on surveys conducted by the news media and commercial polling firms; however, it also holds many academic surveys, including historical collections from Gallup, Pew Research Center, the National Opinion Research Center and Princeton University's Office of Public Opinion Research.  The Roper Center maintains cooperative relationships with other archives around the world. Its board of directors includes representatives from academic and commercial public opinion research. The Roper Center moved from the University of Connecticut to Cornell University in 2015.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP] CIA influence on public opinion  At various times, under its own initiative or in accordance with directives from the President of the United States or the National Security Council staff, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) has attempted to influence public opinion both in the United States and abroad.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP] Public Opinion (1916 film)  Public Opinion is a surviving 1916 American silent drama film produced by Jesse Lasky and distributed by Paramount Pictures. It was directed by Frank Reicher and stars Blanche Sweet. Margaret Turnbull provided the original screen story and scenario. "Public Opinion" is one of very few of Blanche Sweet's Paramount Pictures films still in existence. It is preserved by the Library of Congress.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP] Levada Center  The Levada Center is a Russian independent, nongovernmental polling and sociological research organization. It is named after its founder, the first Russian professor of sociology Yuri Levada (1930–2006). The center traces back its history to 1987 when the All-Union Public Opinion Research Center (VTsIOM) was founded under the leadership of academician Tatyana Zaslavskaya. Being one of the largest Russian research companies, the Levada Center regularly conducts its own and commissioned polling and marketing research. In 2016, it was labelled a foreign agent under the 2012 Russian foreign agent law.
Who was the director of Public Opinion? [SEP] Marist Poll  The Marist Poll, founded in 1978, is a national public opinion poll operated by the Marist Institute for Public Opinion (MIPO) on the campus of Marist College in Poughkeepsie, New York. The poll was one of the first college-based public opinion polls in the United States. In 2020, polls were conducted in Arizona, Florida, New Hampshire, New York, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas. The Marist Poll is highly respected, with an 'A' rating from ABC News' FiveThirtyEight, and is often cited by journalists and pundits around the world.
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  an administrative staff that included Executive Dean Dr. Stuart McComb who had been Superintendent of the Pico Rivera School District, Dean of Instruction Dr. Gerhard Ehmann who had been president of Glendale Community College, Finance Officer Jack Lyons from the San Francisco State College Foundation, Dean of Students Dr. Earnest A. Becker from Pasadena City College, and Librarian Dr. Earnest Toy, Jr. from Riverside City College. At the time the state colleges in California were under the nominal control of the California state department of education and the Superintendent of Public Instruction. However, in practice, the individual state colleges enjoyed a considerable degree of
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  John Eaton was the college's initial president; he served from 1967 to 1983. William M. Anderson was the college's second president, serving from 1983 to 1998. Afterward in 2001, Governor John Engler appointed Anderson the founding director of the Michigan Department of History, Arts and Libraries. Governor Jennifer Granholm reappointed Dr. Anderson to her cabinet, where he continued to serve as the director of HAL until 2009. Charles T. Dillon served as West Shore Community College's third president from 1998 to 2014. He was succeeded by Kenneth Urban (2015–2017).
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  After graduation, he became an assistant to Pomona president James Blaisdell. When the Claremont Colleges were established in 1925, he was appointed secretary under Blaisdell. He became administrative director in 1942; his title changed to managing director in 1944 and president in 1959.
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  Aybar served as director of the state of Florida's Latin American and Caribbean Basin Scholarship Program. He subsequently worked at the James F. Byrnes International Center at the University of South Carolina. Later, at Colorado Mountain College (CMC), he served as dean of the Vail/Eagle Valley campus. In addition to his administrative work at CMC, he led a great books discussion group for local residents. Aybar joined the administration of the City Colleges of Chicago in 2003, after completing his contract at CMC. From late 2003 to 2009, he served as Associate Vice Chancellor for Arts and Sciences. In this capacity he became the first in the City Colleges system to receive the "Administrator of the Year" award in 2004. Aybar was appointed president of Daley College in August 2009,
Who was the director of College? [SEP]  Geoffrey Hubbard was appointed as Director in June 1969. He was previously an engineer and then a civil servant at the Ministry of Technology. He successfully steered the Council through its sometimes difficult relationship with government. He retired in 1986 but continued his role as Chairman of the National Extension College.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Daniels (directors)  Daniel Kwan () and Daniel Scheinert, known collectively as Daniels, are a duo of film directors and screenwriters. They began their career as directors of music videos, including the popular DJ Snake & Lil Jon music video for the single "Turn Down for What" (2013). They have since ventured into film, having written and directed the surreal comedy-drama "Swiss Army Man" (2016) and the science-fiction action comedy "Everything Everywhere All at Once" (2022). The latter became A24's highest-grossing film of all time.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Residence hall director  A Residence Hall Director is college or university employee generally responsible for the management and daily operations of campus residence halls. While the term Residence Hall Director is the common title used for this position in the United States, they are also known at different schools as Area Coordinators (ACs), Area Directors (ADs), Hall Coordinators (HCs), Community Directors (CDs), Hall Directors (HDs), Resident or Residence Directors (RDs), Resident Deans (RDs), Residence Hall Coordinators (RHCs), or Residence Life Coordinators (RLCs). While different titles are used by different colleges and universities, the positions generally have similar job requirements, dependent upon the size of the institution and scope of the position's overarching department.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Chancellor (education)  A chancellor is a leader of a college or university, usually either the executive or ceremonial head of the university or of a university campus within a university system.  In most Commonwealth and former Commonwealth nations, the chancellor is usually a ceremonial non-resident head of the university. In such institutions, the chief executive of a university is the vice-chancellor, who may carry an additional title such as "president" (e.g. "president & vice-chancellor"). The chancellor may serve as chairperson of the governing body; if not, this duty is often held by a chairperson who may be known as a pro-chancellor.  In many countries, the administrative and educational head of the university is known as the president, principal or rector. In the United States, the head of a university is most commonly a university president. In U.S., university systems that have more than one affiliated university or campus, the executive head of a specific campus may have the title of chancellor and report to the overall system's president, or vice versa.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Matt Groh  Matthew "Matt" Groh (born 1981) is an American football executive who is the director of player personnel for the New England Patriots of the National Football League (NFL). Groh began his NFL career as a scouting assistant with the Patriots before working as a scout and executive since 2011.
Who was the director of College? [SEP] Sports information director  A sports information director is a type of public relations worker who provides statistics, team and player notes and other information about a college or university's sports teams to the news media and general public. Abbreviated "SID," sports information directors often have varying titles, such as media relations director, director of athletics communications, and communications director.  SIDs are generally responsible for a number of external publicity efforts by an athletics department. This ranges from updating and maintaining the content on the school's athletics website and social media accounts to statistics management to historical records keeping. SIDs also are often responsible for the production of official publications, most notably media guides, game notes and game programs. Media guides are used both as a resource for the news media and as a recruiting piece for the individual teams.  The College Sports Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) provides an organizational structure for SIDs at all collegiate levels in the United States and Canada. The organization has named Academic All-Americans since 1952. CoSIDA also provides career resources for potential SIDs such as job postings and résumé exchanges.  Some schools offer academic programming aimed at training future sports information directors. Duquesne University, for example, offers a major and a minor in "Sports Information and Media."
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP]  Day by Day (День за днём) is a Soviet TV series directed by Vsevolod Shilovsky, based on a screenplay by. Considered the first Soviet television series (17 episodes) filmed by the USSR Central Television.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP]  Day by Day (Spanish: Día tras día) is a 1951 Spanish drama film directed by Antonio del Amo. Shot in Madrid, it has certain characteristics similar to Italian neorealism.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP]  Day by Day, Desperately (Giorno per giorno disperatamente) is a 1961 Italian drama film written and directed by Alfredo Giannetti. According to the film critic Morando Morandini, the film is "a naturalistic drama of strong emotional charge, crossed by a vein of desperate lyricism."
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP]  Day by Day is a daily meditation book for alcoholics and addicts. It was written in 1973 by members of the Young People's Group of Alcoholics Anonymous in Denver, Colorado. The project was spearheaded by Shelly M., a member of the group who went on to compile Young, Sober & Free and The Pocket Sponsor. Day by Day was written when there were fewer than 200 Narcotics Anonymous meetings held worldwide, and was the group’s effort to produce twelve step literature inclusive of addicts. Each day’s entry contains a meditation, followed by and open-ended statement after which there is a blank space for writing. Every entry concludes with the sentence, “God help me to stay clean and sober today!”
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP]  Day by Day (also Day by Day Cartoon) is an American political webcomic by Chris Muir. The humor usually centers on four principal characters who had initially been presented as co-workers at an unspecified firm until the firm went out of business on December 25, 2007. Romantic relationships among the principals resulted in marriages and children, with one of the couples opening a small bar in the unnamed Texas Rio Grande Valley ranchland in which the strip is now principally set. These characters, their friends, and their families remain the strip's focus. The strip has a conservative libertarian viewpoint, and often makes reference to political weblogs. It was a Yahoo! Pick in the "Comics and Animation" category in 2004.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP] Groundhog Day (film)  Groundhog Day is a 1993 American fantasy comedy film directed by Harold Ramis, with a screenplay by him and Danny Rubin. It stars Bill Murray, Andie MacDowell, and Chris Elliott. Murray portrays Phil Connors, a cynical television weatherman covering the annual Groundhog Day event in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, who becomes trapped in a time loop, forcing him to relive February2nd repeatedly. The film also stars Stephen Tobolowsky, Brian Doyle-Murray, Marita Geraghty, Angela Paton, Rick Ducommun, Rick Overton, and Robin Duke.  Rubin conceived the outline of "Groundhog Day" in the early 1990s. He wrote it as a spec script to gain meetings with producers for other work. It eventually came to the attention of Ramis, who worked with Rubin to make his idea less dark in tone and more palatable to a general audience by enhancing the comedy. After being cast, Murray clashed with Ramis over the script; Murray wanted to focus on the philosophical elements, whereas Ramis had concentrated on the comic aspects. Principal photography took place from March to June1992 almost entirely in Woodstock, Illinois. Filming was difficult, in part because of bitterly cold weather, but also because of the ongoing conflict between Ramis and Murray.  "Groundhog Day" was considered a box-office success on its release, earning over $105million to become one of the highest-grossing films of 1993. It also received generally positive reviews. Reviewers were consistent in praise for the film's successful melding of highly sentimental and deeply cynical moments, and for the philosophical message beneath the comedy. It received multiple award nominations and won a BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay. For all its success, the film marked the end of Ramis's and Murray's long collaborative partnership, which produced films like "Caddyshack" (1980) and "Ghostbusters" (1984). The pair did not speak after filming until shortly before Ramis's death in 2014. The film was a showcase for Murray; previously seen only as a comic actor, his performance led to more serious lead roles in critically acclaimed films.  In the years since its release, the film has grown in esteem and is often considered to be among the greatest films of the 1990s and one of the greatest comedy movies ever. It also had a significant impact on popular culture; the term "Groundhog Day" became part of the English lexicon, meaning a monotonous, unpleasant, and repetitive situation. The film has been analyzed as a religious allegory by Buddhist, Christian, and Jewish scholars. "Groundhog Day" is also credited with the mainstream acceptance of comedy films featuring fantasy genre elements. In 2006, the United States Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the National Film Registry. "Groundhog Day" has been adapted into a 2016 musical and a 2019 video game sequel, "Groundhog Day: Like Father Like Son".
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP] Independence Day (1996 film)  Independence Day (also promoted as ID4) is a 1996 American science fiction action film directed by Roland Emmerich and written by Emmerich and Dean Devlin. It stars an ensemble cast that consists of Will Smith, Bill Pullman, Jeff Goldblum, Mary McDonnell, Judd Hirsch, Margaret Colin, Randy Quaid, Robert Loggia, James Rebhorn, and Harvey Fierstein. The film focuses on disparate groups of people who converge in the Nevada desert in the aftermath of a worldwide attack by a powerful extraterrestrial race. With the other people of the world, they launch a counterattack on July 4—Independence Day in the United States.  While promoting "Stargate" in Europe, Emmerich conceived the film while answering a question about his belief in the existence of alien life. Devlin and Emmerich decided to incorporate a large-scale attack having noticed that aliens in most invasion films travel long distances in outer space only to remain hidden when reaching Earth. Shooting began on July 28, 1995, in New York City, and the film was completed on October 8, 1995.  Considered a significant turning point in the history of the Hollywood blockbuster, "Independence Day" was at the forefront of the large-scale disaster film and sci-fi resurgence of the mid-late 1990s. It was released worldwide on July 3, 1996, but began showing on July 2 (the same day the film's story begins) in original release as a result of a high level of anticipation among moviegoers. The film received mixed reviews, with praise for the performances, musical score and visual effects but criticism for its characters. It grossed over $817.4 million worldwide,<ref name="BOM" /> becoming the highest-grossing film of 1996 and the second-highest-grossing film ever at the time, behind "Jurassic Park" (1993). The film won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Sound.  The sequel, "", was released 20 years later on June 24, 2016, as part of a planned series of films.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP] The Day After Tomorrow  The Day After Tomorrow is a 2004 American science fiction disaster film directed, co-produced, and co-written by Roland Emmerich. Based on the 1999 book "The Coming Global Superstorm" by Art Bell and Whitley Strieber, the film stars Dennis Quaid, Jake Gyllenhaal, Sela Ward, Emmy Rossum, and Ian Holm. It depicts catastrophic climatic effects following the disruption of the North Atlantic Ocean circulation. A series of extreme weather events usher in global cooling and lead to a new ice age.  Originally slated for release in the summer of 2003, "The Day After Tomorrow" premiered in Mexico City on May 17, 2004, and was released in the United States on May 28, 2004. A major commercial success, the film became the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2004. Filmed in Toronto and Montreal, it is the highest-grossing Hollywood film made in Canada (adjusted for inflation). It received mixed reviews upon release, with critics highly praising the film's special effects but criticizing its writing and numerous scientific inaccuracies.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP] Ferris Bueller's Day Off  Ferris Bueller's Day Off is a 1986 American teen comedy film written, co-produced, and directed by John Hughes and co-produced by Tom Jacobson. The film stars Matthew Broderick, Mia Sara, and Alan Ruck with supporting roles by Jennifer Grey, Jeffrey Jones, Cindy Pickett, Edie McClurg, and Lyman Ward. It tells the story of a high school slacker who skips school with his best friend and his girlfriend for a day in Chicago and regularly breaks the fourth wall to explain his techniques and inner thoughts.  Hughes wrote the screenplay in less than a week. Filming began in September 1985 and finished in November, featuring many Chicago landmarks including the then Sears Tower, Wrigley Field and the Art Institute of Chicago. The film was Hughes's love letter to Chicago: "I really wanted to capture as much of Chicago as I could. Not just in the architecture and landscape, but the spirit."<ref name=hugheschicago />  Released by Paramount Pictures on June 11, 1986, the film became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 1986 in the United States, grossing $70 million over a $5 million budget. The movie received acclaim from critics and audiences who praised Broderick's performance, the humor, and the tone.  In 2014, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, being deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant." The film was followed by a television series, starring Charlie Schlatter as title character. A spin-off film titled "Sam & Victor's Day Off", focusing on the two valets who took Cameron's father's Ferrari on a joy ride, is in development for Paramount+.
Who was the director of Day by Day? [SEP] Richard Day (art director)  Richard Day (9 May 1896 – 23 May 1972) was a Canadian art director in the film industry. He won seven Academy Awards and was nominated for a further 13 in the category of Best Art Direction. He worked on 265 films between 1923 and 1970. He was born in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada and died in Hollywood, California.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP]  Robert Frederick Day (11 September 1922 &ndash; 17 March 2017) was an English film director. He directed more than 40 films between 1956 and 1991.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP]  Day was born in Sheen, England. He worked his way up from clapper boy to camera operator then cinematographer while in his native country, and began directing in the mid-1950s. His first film as director, the black comedy The Green Man (1956) for the writer-producer team of Frank Launder and Sidney Gilliat, gained good reviews. Using this as a starting point, Day went on to become one of the industry's busiest directors including directing several Tarzan films. He relocated to Hollywood in the 1960s and directed many TV episodes and made-for-TV movies. He occasionally had small parts in his own productions, including The Haunted Strangler (1958), Two-Way Stretch (1960), and the TV mini-series Peter and Paul (1981). In the 1970s and 1980s, Day would direct episodes of numerous American television shows, including Barnaby Jones, The F.B.I., Dallas, Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color, and Matlock.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP]  James Day (December 22, 1918 &ndash; April 24, 2008) was an American public television station and network executive and on-air interviewer, and professor of television broadcasting at Brooklyn College. Day was a co-founder, and the founding president and general manager, of pioneer San Francisco public television station KQED, and in 1969 became the final president of National Educational Television (NET) before it wound down operations by 1970, making way for its successor, the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS). Day then became general manager of NET's now-former flagship, New York PBS member station WNET. Day was an original PBS board member, and was also a founding board member of the Children's Television Workshop, creators and producers of Sesame Street, which quickly became a "flagship" children's program for public television. Day was born in Alameda, California and died in New York City. One of Day's innovations
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP]  Day was married to Eileen Day and then, following their divorce, to actress Dorothy Provine until her death in 2010. He was the brother of cinematographer Ernest Day. Day died at the age of 94 on Bainbridge Island near Seattle on 17 March 2017.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP]  In 1970, Day was appointed as a regional director for the U.S. Department of the Interior under Interior Secretary Walter Hickel. When President Richard Nixon fired Hickel, Day returned to Oregon and was appointed soon after to serve as Governor Tom McCall's first director of the newly formed Oregon Department of Environmental Quality. During 1973 negotiations over Oregon's landmark comprehensive land-use planning legislation, Senate Bill 100, Day played a vital role in developing the compromises necessary to move SB 100 through the Senate. He then served as the first chairman of the new state Land Conservation and Development Commission in 1974.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP] Independence Day (1996 film)  Independence Day (also promoted as ID4) is a 1996 American science fiction action film directed by Roland Emmerich and written by Emmerich and Dean Devlin. It stars an ensemble cast that consists of Will Smith, Bill Pullman, Jeff Goldblum, Mary McDonnell, Judd Hirsch, Margaret Colin, Randy Quaid, Robert Loggia, James Rebhorn, and Harvey Fierstein. The film focuses on disparate groups of people who converge in the Nevada desert in the aftermath of a worldwide attack by a powerful extraterrestrial race. With the other people of the world, they launch a counterattack on July 4—Independence Day in the United States.  While promoting "Stargate" in Europe, Emmerich conceived the film while answering a question about his belief in the existence of alien life. Devlin and Emmerich decided to incorporate a large-scale attack having noticed that aliens in most invasion films travel long distances in outer space only to remain hidden when reaching Earth. Shooting began on July 28, 1995, in New York City, and the film was completed on October 8, 1995.  Considered a significant turning point in the history of the Hollywood blockbuster, "Independence Day" was at the forefront of the large-scale disaster film and sci-fi resurgence of the mid-late 1990s. It was released worldwide on July 3, 1996, but began showing on July 2 (the same day the film's story begins) in original release as a result of a high level of anticipation among moviegoers. The film received mixed reviews, with praise for the performances, musical score and visual effects but criticism for its characters. It grossed over $817.4 million worldwide,<ref name="BOM" /> becoming the highest-grossing film of 1996 and the second-highest-grossing film ever at the time, behind "Jurassic Park" (1993). The film won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Sound.  The sequel, "", was released 20 years later on June 24, 2016, as part of a planned series of films.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP] Richard Day (art director)  Richard Day (9 May 1896 – 23 May 1972) was a Canadian art director in the film industry. He won seven Academy Awards and was nominated for a further 13 in the category of Best Art Direction. He worked on 265 films between 1923 and 1970. He was born in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada and died in Hollywood, California.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP] Robert Day (director)  Robert Frederick Day (11 September 1922 – 17 March 2017) was an English film director. He directed more than 40 films between 1956 and 1991.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP] Ferris Bueller's Day Off  Ferris Bueller's Day Off is a 1986 American teen comedy film written, co-produced, and directed by John Hughes and co-produced by Tom Jacobson. The film stars Matthew Broderick, Mia Sara, and Alan Ruck with supporting roles by Jennifer Grey, Jeffrey Jones, Cindy Pickett, Edie McClurg, and Lyman Ward. It tells the story of a high school slacker who skips school with his best friend and his girlfriend for a day in Chicago and regularly breaks the fourth wall to explain his techniques and inner thoughts.  Hughes wrote the screenplay in less than a week. Filming began in September 1985 and finished in November, featuring many Chicago landmarks including the then Sears Tower, Wrigley Field and the Art Institute of Chicago. The film was Hughes's love letter to Chicago: "I really wanted to capture as much of Chicago as I could. Not just in the architecture and landscape, but the spirit."<ref name=hugheschicago />  Released by Paramount Pictures on June 11, 1986, the film became the tenth-highest-grossing film of 1986 in the United States, grossing $70 million over a $5 million budget. The movie received acclaim from critics and audiences who praised Broderick's performance, the humor, and the tone.  In 2014, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress, being deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant." The film was followed by a television series, starring Charlie Schlatter as title character. A spin-off film titled "Sam & Victor's Day Off", focusing on the two valets who took Cameron's father's Ferrari on a joy ride, is in development for Paramount+.
Who was the director of The Day? [SEP] Groundhog Day (film)  Groundhog Day is a 1993 American fantasy comedy film directed by Harold Ramis, with a screenplay by him and Danny Rubin. It stars Bill Murray, Andie MacDowell, and Chris Elliott. Murray portrays Phil Connors, a cynical television weatherman covering the annual Groundhog Day event in Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, who becomes trapped in a time loop, forcing him to relive February2nd repeatedly. The film also stars Stephen Tobolowsky, Brian Doyle-Murray, Marita Geraghty, Angela Paton, Rick Ducommun, Rick Overton, and Robin Duke.  Rubin conceived the outline of "Groundhog Day" in the early 1990s. He wrote it as a spec script to gain meetings with producers for other work. It eventually came to the attention of Ramis, who worked with Rubin to make his idea less dark in tone and more palatable to a general audience by enhancing the comedy. After being cast, Murray clashed with Ramis over the script; Murray wanted to focus on the philosophical elements, whereas Ramis had concentrated on the comic aspects. Principal photography took place from March to June1992 almost entirely in Woodstock, Illinois. Filming was difficult, in part because of bitterly cold weather, but also because of the ongoing conflict between Ramis and Murray.  "Groundhog Day" was considered a box-office success on its release, earning over $105million to become one of the highest-grossing films of 1993. It also received generally positive reviews. Reviewers were consistent in praise for the film's successful melding of highly sentimental and deeply cynical moments, and for the philosophical message beneath the comedy. It received multiple award nominations and won a BAFTA Award for Best Original Screenplay. For all its success, the film marked the end of Ramis's and Murray's long collaborative partnership, which produced films like "Caddyshack" (1980) and "Ghostbusters" (1984). The pair did not speak after filming until shortly before Ramis's death in 2014. The film was a showcase for Murray; previously seen only as a comic actor, his performance led to more serious lead roles in critically acclaimed films.  In the years since its release, the film has grown in esteem and is often considered to be among the greatest films of the 1990s and one of the greatest comedy movies ever. It also had a significant impact on popular culture; the term "Groundhog Day" became part of the English lexicon, meaning a monotonous, unpleasant, and repetitive situation. The film has been analyzed as a religious allegory by Buddhist, Christian, and Jewish scholars. "Groundhog Day" is also credited with the mainstream acceptance of comedy films featuring fantasy genre elements. In 2006, the United States Library of Congress selected the film for preservation in the National Film Registry. "Groundhog Day" has been adapted into a 2016 musical and a 2019 video game sequel, "Groundhog Day: Like Father Like Son".
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]  Le Guérisseur (The Faith healer) is a French drama film from 1953, directed by Yves Ciampi and written by Jacques-Laurent Bost, starring Dieter Borsche and Jean Marais. The film was released in other countries under the titles Der Arzt und das Mädchen (Austria/Germany), De wonderdokter (Belgium), and Flickan och polisen (Sweden).
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP] Jean Marais : Pierre Lachaux dit Laurent Le Guérisseur ; Danièle Delorme : Isabelle Dancey, modiste de Paris ; Maurice Ronet : André Turenne ; Dieter Borsche : Dr. Jean Scheffer (de la Faculté en Bretagne) ; Jean Murat : Professeur Chataignier ; Jean Galland : Michel Boëldieu ; Pierre Mondy : Robert, assistant de Laurent ; Marianne Oswald : The healer Lucie ; Jim Gérald : Virolet, le rebouteux ; Colette Régis : Louise Mériadec, la tante d'Isabelle ; Renée Passeur : La comtesse
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]  and L'Oréal as well as on the film Joan of Arc. He also collaborated, as the second assistant director, with Alain Chabat on the production of Astérix & Obélix: Mission Cléopâtre (2002). Later in 2002, Louis Leterrier directed The Transporter, an action movie starring Jason Statham. Although the US release lists him as artistic director and Corey Yuen as director, the opening credits of the European release grant him directorial credit and list Yuen as action director. Leterrier later entered the so-called "Besson stable" – a group of directors working on films produced by or associated with Luc Besson – alongside Chris Nahon and Pierre Morel. He directed
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]  Les Intrigantes (The Plotters), is a French crime drama film from 1954, directed by Henri Decoin, written by François Boyer, starring Raymond Rouleau and Louis de Funès. Paul Rémi, a well-known theater director, accused by Andrieux, his secretary. Advised by Mona, hiding in psychiatric hospital.
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]  Université Paris-Dauphine in 1984, and was appointed Director General of the Théâtre du Châtelet in Paris in 1988, while he has been a member of the Board of Directors since 1983. He remained so until 1997 while assuming the general management of the Orchestre de Paris from 1994 to 1996. The direction of the Aix-en-Provence Festival was entrusted to him in 1998. He also headed the Théâtre des Bouffes du Nord with Peter Brook from 1998 to June 2005, and has been directing with Frédéric Franck the Théâtre de la Madeleine since 2002. As he was to retain the management of
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP] Leguignon the Healer  Leguignon the Healer (French: Leguignon guérisseur) is a 1954 French comedy film directed by Maurice Labro and starring Yves Deniaud, Jane Marken and Nicole Besnard. The film's sets were designed by the art director Jean Douarinou. It was made as a sequel to the 1952 film "Monsieur Leguignon, Signalman".
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP] Yves Ciampi  Yves Ciampi (; 9 February 1921 – 5 November 1982) was a French film director. He was married to Japanese actress Kishi Keiko from 1957 to 1975. His 1965 film "Heaven on One's Head" was entered into the 4th Moscow International Film Festival where it won a Golden Prize. In 1969 he was a member of the jury at the 6th Moscow International Film Festival.
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP] The Healer (2016 film)  The Healer is a 2016 Spanish-Canadian-American comedy-drama film written and directed by Paco Arango and starring Oliver Jackson-Cohen, Camilla Luddington, Kaitlyn Bernard, Jorge Garcia and Jonathan Pryce. The film, whose profits were pledged to Paul Newman’s SeriousFun Children's Network, was panned by critics, who acknowledged the altruistic intent was not matched by the quality of the film itself.<ref name=LAT/>
Who was the director of Le Guérisseur? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP]  Point Blank (1967) Director of Photography • I Love You, Alice B. Toklas! (1968) Director of Photography • Finian’s Rainbow (1968) Director of Photography • The Illustrated Man (1969) Director of Photography • The Gypsy Moths (1969) as Philip Lathrop • They Shoot Horses, Don’t They? (1969) Director of Photography • The Hawaiians (1970) Director of Photography • The Traveling Executioner (1970) Director of Photography • Rabbit, Run (1970) • Wild Rovers (1971) Director of Photography • Every Little Crook and Nanny (1972) as Philip Lathrop • Portnoy’s Complaint (1972) as Philip Lathrop • Lolly-Madonna XXX (1973) as Philip Lathrop
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP]  (TV Series: 1 episode, 1963) Director of Photography • Twilight of Honor (1963) Director of Photography • Soldier in the Rain (1963) Director of Photography • The Pink Panther (1963) Director of Photography • The Americanization of Emily (1964) as Philip Lathrop • 36 Hours (1964) • Girl Happy (1965) Director of Photography • The Cincinnati Kid (1965) Director of Photography • Never Too Late (1965) as Philip Lathrop • What Did You Do in the War, Daddy? (1966) Director of Photography • The Happening (1967) Director of Photography • Don't Make Waves (1967) • Gunn (1967) Director of Photography
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP]  In 1957 he directed a documentary film Ansel Adams, Photographer, written by Nancy Newhall and narrated by Beaumont Newhall. He then directed the documentary short Ask Me, Don't Tell Me (1961) with the support of photographer Imogen Cunningham, and continued his career shooting documentaries for both National Geographic and the United Nations through the 1960s, requiring much international travel. His first major credit was co-photography with Didier Tarot on Agnes Varda's short Oncle Yanco ( 'Uncle Yanco', 1967), made in San Francisco about one of her relatives who was a painter leading a hippie life on a barge. At fifty-six, his contribution as one of five camera operators on the landmark rock concert documentary Woodstock (1970) brought an Oscar and established his reputation as a filmmaker in
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP]  The Photographer is a 1974 American thriller film written and directed by William Byron Hillman. The film stars Michael Callan, Barbara Nichols, Harold J. Stone, Edward Andrews, Jed Allan and Spencer Milligan. The film was released on December 5, 1974, by Embassy Pictures.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP]  staff of the National Geographic in 1958 and, after a stint as a picture editor, was named director of photography in 1963. In that role, he was responsible for making the photographic assignments for all the Society’s books and magazines. He pioneered a summer intern program for university students who sought careers in photojournalism. Scores went through the program. Some became staff members; others are on newspaper staffs scattered around the country. He also nurtured and hired photographers he met as a member of the University of Missouri photojournalism workshop faculty for nearly 50 years. For 17 years he was in charge of the Hearst annual photojournalism contest.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP] Cinematographer  The cinematographer or director of photography (sometimes shortened to DP or DOP) is the person responsible for the photographing or recording of a film, television production, music video or other live action piece. The cinematographer is the chief of the camera and light crews working on such projects and would normally be responsible for making artistic and technical decisions related to the image and for selecting the camera, film stock, lenses, filters, etc. The study and practice of this field is referred to as cinematography.  The cinematographer is a subordinate of the director, tasked with capturing a scene in accordance with director’s vision. Relations between the cinematographer and director vary. In some instances, the director will allow the cinematographer complete independence, while in others, the director allows little to none, even going so far as to specify exact camera placement and lens selection. Such a level of involvement is less common when the director and cinematographer have become comfortable with each other. The director will typically convey to the cinematographer what is wanted from a scene visually and allow the cinematographer latitude in achieving that effect.  The images recorded by the cinematographer are passed to the film editor for editing.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP] Colour Photo  Colour Photo is a 2020 Indian Telugu-language period romantic drama film directed by debutante Sandeep Raj. Produced by Amrutha Productions and Loukya Entertainment, the film stars Suhas in his first lead role, along with Chandini Chowdary, and Sunil. The music was composed by Kaala Bhairava, marking his second film as composer after "Mathu Vadalara". The film is set in Machilipatnam, Andhra Pradesh in the mid-1990s and is said to be the story of a "below-average guy".  The film was premiered on aha on 23 October 2020. The films stars many debutants who previously worked in few short films including the director of the film Sandeep Raj. The film was shot completely in Machilipatnam, Vijayawada and the surrounding areas in Andhra Pradesh. At the 68th National Film Awards, it won the Best Feature Film in Telugu.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP] Brett Ratner  Brett Ratner (born March 28, 1969) is an American film director and producer. He directed the "Rush Hour" film series, "The Family Man", "Red Dragon", "", and "Tower Heist". He is also a producer of several films, including the "Horrible Bosses" series, "The Revenant" and "War Dogs".  Ratner got his start directing with music videos in the 1990s, and directed his first motion picture, "Money Talks", in 1997. Overall, the films Ratner has directed have earned over $2 billion at the global box office. RatPac Entertainment has co-financed 81 theatrically released motion pictures exceeding $17 billion in worldwide box office receipts. RatPac’s co-financed films have been nominated for 59 Academy Awards, 25 Golden Globes and 43 BAFTAs and have won 25 Academy Awards, 8 Golden Globes and 24 BAFTAs. In January 2017, Ratner received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame for his contributions to the motion picture industry, located at 6801 Hollywood Boulevard.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP] Academy Award for Best Director  The Academy Award for Best Director (officially known as the Academy Award of Merit for Directing) is an award presented annually by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS). It is given in honor of a film director who has exhibited outstanding directing while working in the film industry. The award is traditionally presented by the previous year's Best Director winner.  The 1st Academy Awards ceremony was held in 1929 with the award being split into "Dramatic" and "Comedy" categories; Frank Borzage and Lewis Milestone won for "7th Heaven" and "Two Arabian Knights", respectively. However, these categories were merged for all subsequent ceremonies. Nominees are determined by single transferable vote within the directors branch of AMPAS; winners are selected by a plurality vote from the entire eligible voting members of the academy.<ref name="TheEnvelope"> </ref>  For the first eleven years of the Academy Awards, directors were allowed to be nominated for multiple films in the same year. However, after the nomination of Michael Curtiz for two films, "Angels with Dirty Faces" and "Four Daughters", at the 11th Academy Awards, the rules were revised so that an individual could only be nominated for one film at each ceremony. That rule has since been amended, although the only director who has received multiple nominations in the same year was Steven Soderbergh for "Erin Brockovich" and "Traffic" in 2000, winning the award for the latter. The Academy Awards for Best Director and Best Picture have been very closely linked throughout their history. Of the 88 films that won Best Picture and were also nominated for Best Director, 67 won the award.  Since its inception, the award has been given to 74 directors or directing teams. As of the 2021 ceremony, New Zealand filmmaker Jane Campion is the most recent winner in this category for her work on "The Power of the Dog" and the third woman to win it.
Who was the director of The Photo? [SEP] Directors of Photography  Directors of Photography is the fifth studio album by American hip hop group Dilated Peoples. The album was released on August 12, 2014, by Rhymesayers Entertainment. The album features guest appearances from Vince Staples, Aloe Blacc, Catero, Gangrene, Sick Jacken, Krondon, Fashawn, Rapsody, Domo Genesis, Vinnie Paz and Action Bronson.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]  Eric Morley, British TV host and founder of the Miss World pageant, is accredited with popularising the game of bingo in the United Kingdom during the early sixties, as a tactic to fill the UK’s dance halls. In 1952, he was Mecca's general manager of dancing, and was made a director in 1953. With Mecca, Morley helped to popularise bingo which was played at Mecca venues throughout the United Kingdom. He changed the company from a small catering and dancing firm into a leading entertainment and catering company in the UK. A director of the company from 1953 up until 1978, Morley left the
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]  This was the second episode written by supervising producer Gennifer Hutchison for the series. It was directed by Larysa Kondracki.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]  Bingo is a 1998 computer-animated short film directed by Chris Landreth. The short is based on the stage play Disregard This Play by the theater troupe The Neo Futurists. It uses surrealistic imagery and dialogue to tell the story of an ordinary man who is surrounded by characters who insist that he is someone named "Bingo the Clown" even though he is not. Eventually, the man is worn down by their unwavering insistence and comes to believe that he is Bingo the Clown. At the time of Bingo's creation, Landreth was employed as an animator at AliasWavefront, and the film was used to demonstrate the capabilities of the company's new Maya animation software.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]  on a successful search". But it definitely gained its initial surge of popularity with the first modern version of the game appearing at carnivals and fairs in the 1920s, and is attributed to a Hugh J. Ward, who for marketing reasons most probably took the name from pre-existing slang. The patent for a modern bingo card design went to Erwin S. Lowe in 1942. The introduction of the Betting and Gaming Act 1960 on 1 January 1961 saw large cash-prizes legalised and the launch of Mecca Bingo by Mecca Leisure Group, led by Eric Morley, who had a large chain of dancehalls and introduced bingo into 60 of them, including the Lyceum Ballroom. Circuit Management Association who managed the cinemas and dancehalls of The Rank Organisation was the other large operator at the time, including hosting bingo at their largest cinema, the Blackpool Odeon.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]  The film opens with a live-action footage of the Neo-Futurists performing the excerpt of Disregard This Play before a live audience. A man in a strange hat greets a man sitting in a chair and addresses him as "Bingo". When the man in the chair denies being named Bingo, the man in the hat insists that he was, in fact, "Bingo the Clown-o". As the man in the chair tries to correct him, the man in the hat continues to address him more loudly from cutting off the protests. This was removed from a Vimeo upload by the film’s director. After the footage, it opens the scene in computer-generated imagery. A man, "Dave,"
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP] Bingo Bongo  Bingo Bongo is a 1982 Italian family comedy film directed by Pasquale Festa Campanile and starring Adriano Celentano as an Italian Tarzan character escaping across Milan.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP] Bluey (2018 TV series)  Bluey is an Australian preschool animated television series that premiered on ABC Kids on 1 October 2018. The program was created by Joe Brumm and is produced by Queensland-based company Ludo Studio. It was commissioned by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and the British Broadcasting Corporation, with BBC Studios holding global distribution and merchandising rights. The series made its premiere on Disney Junior in the United States and is released internationally on Disney+.  The show follows Bluey, an anthropomorphic six-year-old Blue Heeler puppy who is characterised by her abundance of energy, imagination and curiosity of the world. The young dog lives with her father, Bandit; mother, Chilli; and younger sister, Bingo, who regularly joins Bluey on adventures as the pair embark on imaginative play together. Other characters featured each represent a different dog breed. Overarching themes include the focus on family, growing up and Australian culture. The program was created and is produced in Queensland; its capital city Brisbane inspires the show's setting.  "Bluey" has received consistently high viewership in Australia on both broadcast television and video on demand services. It has influenced the development of merchandise and a stage show featuring its characters. The program has won two Logie Awards for Most Outstanding Children's Program as well as an International Emmy Kids Award in 2019. It has been praised by television critics for depicting a modern everyday family life, constructive parenting messages and the role of Bandit as a positive father figure. "Bluey" was renewed for a third series in October 2020.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP]
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP] Geek Maggot Bingo  Geek Maggot Bingo (also known as "Geek Maggot Bingo or The Freak from Suckweasel Mountain") is a 1983 comedy horror film directed by Nick Zedd, who also scripted and shot the movie.  The film was released in 1983 and a special screening was held at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City on January 21, 2018 as part of their film series "New York Film and Video: No Wave–Transgressive", where it played alongside Zedd's "Police State." At a screening of "Geek Maggot Bingo" with the Collective for Living Cinema, Zedd "shot" a couple of people planted in the audience at the film's end, bursting blood bags for extra effect.
Who was the director of Bingo? [SEP] Beach Blanket Bingo  Beach Blanket Bingo is a 1965 American beach party film directed by William Asher. It is the fifth film in the Beach Party film series. The film stars Frankie Avalon, Annette Funicello, Linda Evans, Deborah Walley, Paul Lynde, and Don Rickles. Earl Wilson and Buster Keaton appear. Evans's singing voice was dubbed by Jackie Ward.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]  Big Dreams Little Tokyo is a 2006 feature-length motion picture written and directed by Dave Boyle. The film premiered November 2, 2006 at the AFI Festival in Hollywood, California and is released on DVD through Echo Bridge on July 22, 2008.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]  The film was the feature debut of Boyle who conceived the idea while living in the Japantown area of Sydney, Australia. Many of the characters in the film were based on people he met and interacted with while there. It was shot in the summer of 2005 in San Jose and San Francisco, California as well as Salt Lake City, Utah. Big Dreams Little Tokyo was produced by Duane Andersen and Megan Boyle.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]  Boyd is an American with an uncanny ability to speak Japanese. He aspires to succeed in the world of Japanese business but finds himself mostly on the outside looking in. Meanwhile, his roommate Jerome is a Japanese American who has always felt too American to be Japanese but too Japanese to be American. He aspires to be a sumo wrestler but finds his weight and blood pressure are thwarting his dreams. Together they struggle to find their place in a world where cultural identity is seldom what it seems.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]  Showdown in Little Tokyo is a 1991 American buddy cop action film directed by Mark L. Lester and produced by Lester and Martin E. Caan. The film stars Dolph Lundgren and Brandon Lee; it was the latter's first American film role. The film was released in the United States on August 23, 1991. Showdown in Little Tokyo was Dolph Lundgren's last Warner Bros Pictures film until 2018's Creed II.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]  Stuart Baird, another editor who would often re-edit original cuts of Warner Bros. movies when they were displeased with them was also hired to re-edit Showdown in Little Tokyo, but he is uncredited in the movie. Director Mark L. Lester's final cut came in at 90 minutes, but Warners didn't like the film, and cut it down to 79 minutes.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP] Big Dreams Little Tokyo  Big Dreams Little Tokyo is a 2006 feature-length motion picture written and directed by Dave Boyle. The film premiered November 2, 2006 at the AFI Festival in Hollywood, California and is released on DVD through Echo Bridge on July 22, 2008.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP] Dave Boyle  Dave Boyle (born 1982) is an American director, writer, editor, and actor. He has written and directed several movies that utilize primarily Asian or Asian-American casts, including the feature films "Big Dreams Little Tokyo" (2006), "White on Rice" (2009), "Surrogate Valentine" (2011), "Daylight Savings" (2012), and "Man from Reno" (2014), several of which have won awards at film festivals around the world.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP]
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP] Rick Porras  Rick Porras is an American producer, notably co-producing "The Lord of the Rings" film trilogy. He grew up in the San Francisco Bay Area and attended Stanford University, graduating in 1988 with a degree in history.  He had a cameo appearance with Peter Jackson and other crew members in the special extended edition of "The Return of the King" as a Corsair pirate.
Who was the director of Big Dreams Little Tokyo? [SEP] Little Tokyo, Los Angeles  Little Tokyo () also known as Little Tokyo Historic District, is an ethnically Japanese American district in downtown Los Angeles and the heart of the largest Japanese-American population in North America. It is the largest and most populous of only three official Japantowns in the United States, all of which are in California (the other two are Japantown, San Francisco and Japantown, San Jose). Founded around the beginning of the 20th century, the area, sometimes called Lil' Tokyo, J-Town, 小東京 (Shō-tōkyō), is the cultural center for Japanese Americans in Southern California. It was declared a National Historic Landmark District in 1995.<ref name="nhlsum"/>
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]  A Rowboat Romance is a 1914 American short comedy film directed by and starring Fatty Arbuckle.
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]  Jeraldine Saunders (born Geraldine Loretta Glynn; September 3, 1923 – February 26, 2019) was an American writer and lecturer, best known as the creator of The Love Boat, an ABC Television series and its associated made-for-TV films portraying the humorous and romantic adventures of various itinerant passengers. Saunders had worked as a model, an astrologer, an numerologist and palm reader. The program was based on her 1974 book, The Love Boats, her anecdotal account of her time employed as the first full-time female cruise director. From 2003 until her death Saunders was the author of Omarr's Astrological Forecast. The nationally syndicated horoscope column, read by hundreds of thousands worldwide, was originally created by Sydney Omarr, to whom she had been briefly married to, in 1966. In 1968 Saunders discovered her fiancé, the actor Albert Dekker, dead in his Hollywood home. The death was ruled to be accidental.
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]  In 1977, he wrote the screenplay for the 1977 drama Passing Through, starring Cora Lee Day and Marla Gibbs. During the run of The Love Boat, Lange also served as director and screenwriter of several episodes of the series. In 1999, Lange directed two episodes of Love Boat: The Next Wave, the UPN series based on The Love Boat. He also directed episodes of Moesha, Dharma & Greg, and Eve. In 2008, he directed the drama For Love of Amy. Lange has also done extensive theater work as playwright and stage director. He has penned 17 plays, including George Washington's Boy, a historical drama about the relationship between the first president and his favorite slave, along with the comedy Lemon Meringue Facade. Lange remained close to
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]  Jeraldine Saunders, a real-life cruise director for a passenger cruise-ship line. Saunders was also partly inspired by the German cruise ship MV Aurora. The TV movie was followed by two more (titled The Love Boat II and The New Love Boat), all of which aired before the series began in September 1977. The executive producer for the series was Aaron Spelling, who produced several television series for Four Star Television and ABC from the 1960s into the 1990s. In 1987, the episode with segment titles "Hidden Treasure", "Picture from the Past", and "Ace's Salary" (Season 9, Episode 3) was ranked No. 82 on [[TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time|TV Guide Every episode contained several storylines, each written by a different set of writers working on one group of guest
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]  Luc Béraud was assistant director on the movie. Marilù Parolini worked as the set photographer.
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP] A Rowboat Romance  A Rowboat Romance is a 1914 American short comedy film directed by and starring Fatty Arbuckle.
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP] Roscoe Arbuckle filmography  These are the films of the American silent film actor, comedian, director, and screenwriter Roscoe Arbuckle. Films marked with a diamond (♦) were directed by and featured Arbuckle. He used the name William Goodrich on the films he directed from 1924 onward.  Arbuckle's films share the common fate of silent movies. Of the hundreds of features and shorts in which he appeared between 1909 and 1933, only about half are known to have survived, and many exist only in fragmentary form. Further, there is no single source from which the remaining Arbuckle library can be accessed. Surviving prints, negatives, stills and other materials are scattered around the globe, held by various corporations, government institutions, museums and private collectors.
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP]
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP] A Place in the Sun (1951 film)  A Place in the Sun is a 1951 American drama film based on the 1925 novel "An American Tragedy" by Theodore Dreiser and the 1926 play, also titled "An American Tragedy". It tells the story of a working-class young man who is entangled with two women: one who works in his wealthy uncle's factory, and the other a beautiful socialite. Another adaptation of the novel had been filmed once before, as "An American Tragedy", in 1931. All these works were inspired by the real-life murder of Grace Brown by Chester Gillette in 1906, which resulted in Gillette's conviction and execution by electric chair in 1908.  "A Place in the Sun" was directed by George Stevens from a screenplay by Harry Brown and Michael Wilson, and stars Montgomery Clift, Elizabeth Taylor, and Shelley Winters; its supporting actors included Anne Revere and Raymond Burr. Burr's performance impressed TV producer Gail Patrick, and would later lead to her casting him as Perry Mason.  The film was a critical and commercial success, winning six Academy Awards and the first-ever Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama. In 1991, "A Place in the Sun" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the director of A Rowboat Romance? [SEP] The Light Between Oceans (film)  The Light Between Oceans is a 2016 romantic drama film written and directed by Derek Cianfrance and based on the 2012 novel of the same name by M. L. Stedman. An international co-production between the United Kingdom, the United States, India and Canada, the film stars Michael Fassbender, Alicia Vikander, Rachel Weisz, Bryan Brown, and Jack Thompson. The film tells the story of a lighthouse keeper and his wife who rescue and adopt an infant girl adrift at sea. Years later, the couple discover the child's true parentage and are faced with the moral dilemma of their actions.  "The Light Between Oceans" had its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival on September 1, 2016, where it competed for the Golden Lion. The film was released by Touchstone Pictures in North America on September 2, 2016, being the last DreamWorks Pictures film distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures through their 2011 output deal. The film was released in the United Kingdom on November 1, 2016, by Entertainment One Films. It received mixed reviews and grossed $26 million worldwide.<ref name=mixed/> This is the last film to be released by Touchstone before it went defunct.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] Susan Douglas Rubes (1966-1979) ; Richard Ouzounian (1979-1980) ; Peter Moss (1980-1991) ; Maja Ardal (1991-1998) ; Pierre Tetrault (1998-2002) ; Allen MacInnis (2002-present)
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP]  Young People is a 1972 Hong Kong coming-of-age action drama film directed by Chang Cheh and starring David Chiang, Ti Lung, Chen Kuan-tai, Irene Chan and pop singer Agnes Chan, the younger sister of Irene Chan, in her debut film role.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP]  Young People is a 1940 American musical drama film directed by Allan Dwan and starring Shirley Temple and Jack Oakie.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP]  Young People's Theatre (YPT) is a Canadian producer of theatre for youth and Toronto's oldest not-for-profit theatre company. Founded in 1966 by Susan Douglas Rubeš, YPT originally operated out of the now-demolished Colonnade Theatre on Bloor Street. Since its 1977-78 season, the company has resided in a renovated heritage building in downtown Toronto. YPT operates two performance spaces in the building at 165 Front Street East; the Susan Douglas Rubes Theatre and the Nathan Cohen Studio. It stages an average of eight productions each year. The current Artistic Director is Allen MacInnis and the current Executive Director Nancy J. Webster.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP]  Gay Sweatshop. This later became one of the best known gay theatre companies in the UK, with former members including Antony Sher, Simon Callow, Tom Robinson and Miriam Margolyes. In the mid-1970s Chapman was appointed to the Royal Court Theatre, London, in charge of the Young People's Theatre Scheme. This had originally been set up in 1966 to develop and produce the best new writing by young people under 25, encouraging writers from all sections of society to find their voice. In 1976, as part of a drive to invigorate the group, Chapman developed the YPTS idea and held a competition to give the group a shorter and snappier name. The winning name
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] Young People's Theatre  Young People's Theatre (YPT) is a professional theatre for young people located in Toronto, Ontario. The company produces and presents a full season of theatre and arts education programming, performing to approximately 150,000 patrons annually. Founded in 1966 by Susan Douglas Rubeš, YPT originally operated out of the now-demolished Colonnade Theatre on Bloor Street. Since its 1977–78 season, the company has resided in a renovated heritage building in downtown Toronto.  YPT operates two performance spaces at 165 Front Street East: the Ada Slaight Stage and the Nathan Cohen Studio. It stages an average of eight productions each year. The current artistic director is Herbie Barnes, and the current executive director is Nancy J. Webster.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] Children of Men  Children of Men is a 2006 dystopian action thriller film co-written and directed by Alfonso Cuarón. The screenplay, based on P. D. James' 1992 novel "The Children of Men", was credited to five writers, with Clive Owen making uncredited contributions. The film takes place in 2027, when two decades of human infertility have left society on the brink of collapse. Asylum seekers seek sanctuary in the United Kingdom, where they are subjected to detention and refoulement by the government. Owen plays civil servant Theo Faron, who must help refugee Kee (Clare-Hope Ashitey) escape the chaos. "Children of Men" also stars Julianne Moore, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Pam Ferris, Charlie Hunnam, and Michael Caine.  The film was released by Universal Pictures on 22 September 2006 in the UK and on 25 December in the US. Critics noted the relationship between the US' Christmas opening and the film's themes of hope, redemption, and faith. Despite the limited release and lack of any clear marketing strategy during awards season by the film's distributor, "Children of Men" received critical acclaim and was recognised for its achievements in screenwriting, cinematography, art direction, and innovative single-shot action sequences. It was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, and Best Film Editing. It was also nominated for three BAFTA Awards, winning Best Cinematography and Best Production Design, and for three Saturn Awards, winning Best Science Fiction Film. In 2016 it was voted 13th among 100 films considered the best of the 21st century by 117 film critics from around the world.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] Young People's Concerts  The Young People's Concerts with the New York Philharmonic are the longest-running series of family concerts of classical music in the world.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] Manitoba Theatre for Young People  Manitoba Theatre for Young People (MTYP) is a theatre for children and young adults in The Forks area of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. , MTYP's annual attendance regularly exceeds 100,000.<ref name=CultureCommunities/>  Within the theatre complex are two performance venues: a 315-seat Main Stage and a smaller hall. The building also features four classroom studios, production and wardrobe shops, a greenroom, two full dressing rooms, a box office, and lobby.<ref name=CultureCommunities/> The theatre is 5,270 square feet in size with a 1,344 square feet stage area. The black-box style theatre seats up to 315 and is reconfigurable.<ref name=CultureCommunities/>  Manitoba Theatre for Young People is one of only two TYA (Theatre for Young Audiences) institutions in Canada with a permanent residence, and is the only one that offers a full season of plays for teens.
Who was the director of Young People? [SEP] James Cameron  James Francis Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian filmmaker. A major figure in the post-New Hollywood era, he is considered one of the industry's most innovative filmmakers, regularly pushing the boundaries of cinematic capability with his use of novel technologies. He first gained recognition for writing and directing "The Terminator" (1984) and found further success with "Aliens" (1986), "The Abyss" (1989), "" (1991), and the action comedy "True Lies" (1994). He wrote and directed "Titanic" (1997) and "Avatar" (2009), with "Titanic" earning him Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Film Editing. A recipient of various other industry accolades, two of his films have been selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.  Cameron co-founded the production companies Lightstorm Entertainment, Digital Domain, and Earthship Productions. In addition to filmmaking, he is a National Geographic sea explorer and has produced many documentaries on the subject, including "Ghosts of the Abyss" (2003) and "Aliens of the Deep" (2005). Cameron has also contributed to underwater filming and remote vehicle technologies and helped create the digital 3D Fusion Camera System. In 2012, Cameron became the first person to do a solo descent to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of the Earth's ocean, in the "Deepsea Challenger" submersible.  Cameron's films have grossed approximately USD $2.5 billion in North America and $8 billion worldwide. "Avatar" and "Titanic" are the highest and third highest-grossing films of all time, earning $2.91 billion and $2.19 billion, respectively. Cameron holds the achievement of having directed the first two of the five films in history to gross over $2 billion worldwide. In 2010, "Time" named Cameron as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Cameron is also an environmentalist and runs several sustainability businesses.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP]  The Kiss is a 2003 direct-to-video film starring Francoise Surel, Eliza Dushku, Terence Stamp, and Billy Zane. It tells the story of a book editor (Surel) who is entranced by a certain old manuscript about a romance. Unfortunately, she discovers that the story is unfinished, so with her roommate (Dushku) she attempts to find the author, only to be disappointed that he (Stamp) is nothing more than a broken man after his wife's death. The editor forms a close friendship with him, and they find the meaning of true love.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP]  Kiss is a 1963 silent American experimental film directed by Andy Warhol, which runs 50 minutes and features various couples – man and woman, woman and woman, man and man – kissing for 3½ minutes each. The film features Naomi Levine, Barbara Rubin, Gerard Malanga, Rufus Collins, Johnny Dodd, Ed Sanders, Mark Lancaster, Fred Herko, Baby Jane Holzer, Robert Indiana, Andrew Meyer, John Palmer, Pierre Restany, Harold Stevenson, Philip van Rensselaer, Charlotte Gilbertson, Marisol, Steven Holden, and unidentified others. In 1964, La Monte Young provided a loud minimalist drone soundtrack to Kiss when shown as small TV-sized projections at the entrance lobby to the third New York Film Festival held at Lincoln Center. Kiss was followed by Eat (1963), Sleep (1964), Blow Job (1963) and Blue Movie (1969). This was one of the first films Warhol made at The Factory in New York City.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP]  Ulysses Davis (November 5, 1872 &ndash; October 1, 1924), was an American film director. He directed 86 films between 1911 and 1916, some at Champion Film Company. He is probably best remembered today for having directed The Kiss, a 1914 film starring Margaret Gibson and William Desmond Taylor. He was born in South Amboy, New Jersey, United States. He died in Chicago and is buried at Waldheim Jewish Cemetery in Forest Park, Illinois.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP]  The screenplay for The Kiss was written by Stephen Volk, who had previously written Gothic (1986) for Ken Russell, and would follow The Kiss with William Friedkin's The Guardian (1990). Though set in Albany, New York, the film was shot on location in Montreal, Québec, Canada. Describing the film, director Pen Densham described it as "somewhere between The Exorcist and Poltergeist." The film had the working title The Host.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP]  The Kiss is a 1958 short film written and produced by John Hayes. It was the first major film by Hayes, who would go on to find fame as the writer, producer, and director of B-movie genre films such as Garden of the Dead. The film was nominated for the 1958 Academy Award for Best Live Action Short Film but lost to Disney's Grand Canyon.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP] Kiss Me, Kate  Kiss Me, Kate is a musical written by Bella and Samuel Spewack with music and lyrics by Cole Porter. The story involves the production of a musical version of William Shakespeare's "The Taming of the Shrew" and the conflict on and off-stage between Fred Graham, the show's director, producer, and star, and his leading lady, his ex-wife Lilli Vanessi. A secondary romance concerns Lois Lane, the actress playing Bianca, and her gambler boyfriend, Bill, who runs afoul of some gangsters. The original production starred Alfred Drake, Patricia Morison, Lisa Kirk and Harold Lang.  "Kiss Me, Kate" was Porter's response to Rodgers and Hammerstein's "Oklahoma!" and other integrated musicals; it was the first show he wrote in which the music and lyrics were firmly connected to the script. The musical premiered in 1948 and proved to be Porter's only show to run for more than 1,000 performances on Broadway. In 1949, it won the first Tony Award for Best Musical.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP] Kiss Kiss Bang Bang  Kiss Kiss Bang Bang is a 2005 American neo-noir black comedy mystery thriller film written and directed by Shane Black (in his directorial debut), and starring Robert Downey Jr., Val Kilmer, Michelle Monaghan, and Corbin Bernsen. The script is partially based on the Brett Halliday novel "Bodies Are Where You Find Them" (1941), and interprets the classic hardboiled literary genre in a tongue-in-cheek fashion. The film was produced by Joel Silver, with Susan Levin and Steve Richards as executive producers.  Shot in Los Angeles between February 24 and May 3, 2004, the film debuted at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival on May 14, 2005, and was released in the United States on October 21, 2005. It received positive reviews from critics, and grossed $15 million worldwide.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP] Kiss Me Deadly  Kiss Me Deadly is a 1955 American film noir produced and directed by Robert Aldrich, starring Ralph Meeker, Albert Dekker, Paul Stewart, Juano Hernandez, and Wesley Addy. It also features Maxine Cooper and Cloris Leachman appearing in their feature film debuts. The film follows a private investigator in Los Angeles who becomes embroiled in a complex mystery after picking up a female hitchhiker. The screenplay was written by Aldrich and A. I. Bezzerides, based on the 1952 crime novel "Kiss Me, Deadly" by Mickey Spillane.  "Kiss Me Deadly" grossed $726,000 in the United States and $226,000 overseas. The film received the condemnation of the Kefauver Commission, which accused it of being "designed to ruin young viewers", a verdict that director Aldrich protested. Despite initial critical disapproval, it is considered one of the most important and influential film noirs of all time.  The film has been noted as a stylistic precursor to the French New Wave, and has been cited as a major influence on a number of filmmakers, including François Truffaut, Jean-Luc Godard, Alex Cox, and Quentin Tarantino. In 1999, "Kiss Me Deadly" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant."<ref name=":0" />
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP] The Long Kiss Goodnight  The Long Kiss Goodnight is a 1996 American action thriller film co-produced and directed by Renny Harlin, and produced by Shane Black and Stephanie Austin with screenplay written by Black. It stars Geena Davis, Samuel L. Jackson, Tom Amandes, Yvonne Zima, Brian Cox, Patrick Malahide, Craig Bierko and David Morse. The story follows an amnesiatic schoolteacher (Davis) who sets out to recover her identity with the help of a private detective (Jackson) when they discover a dark conspiracy.  Released by New Line Cinema on October 11, 1996, it grossed almost $96 million against a budget of $65 million, and gained a strong cult following.
Who was the director of The Kiss? [SEP] Kiss of the Spider Woman (film)  Kiss of the Spider Woman () is a 1985 drama film, based on the 1976 novel of the same title by Argentine writer Manuel Puig. It is directed by Argentine-Brazilian filmmaker Héctor Babenco from a screenplay by Leonard Schrader, and stars William Hurt, Raul Julia, and Sônia Braga.   Set in Brazilian prison during the military dictatorship, the film centres on a dialogue between two very different cellmates, a hardened leftist revolutionary (Julia) and an apolitical, effeminate homosexual (Hurt). The story utilizes metafictional and film-within-a-film elements, as the latter regales the former with retellings of an old movie, whose themes mirror those of the characters.  Independently produced by David Weisman and filmed in São Paulo between October 1983 and March 1984, the film premiered at the 1985 Cannes Film Festival, where Hurt won the Best Actor award and Babenco was nominated for the Palme d'Or. Released in the United States on July 26, 1985, it received widespread critical acclaim;<ref name=":0" /> Hurt won the Academy Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actor, and the film received a further three Oscar nominations: for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP]  camera as a vocal coach for director/producer Otto Preminger. In 1962, she became a naturalized citizen of the United States. A successful Los Angeles businesswoman, in 1999, she re-established Belvedere Film as a Los Angeles/Vienna-based production company with her son, Robert. She was executive producer of the award-winning dramatic short film, Semmelweis (2001), the spy-comedy, Wilson Chance (2005), and several works in progress at the time of her death, including the documentary Felix Austria! aka The Archduke and Herbert Hinkel (2013), and a screen adaptation (with her son) of the antiwar Austrian novel, Mars im Widder by Alexander Lernet-Holenia. Recognized internationally for her unique work as
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP]  One famous producing-director (Intendant) of the Münchner Kammerspiele was Falckenberg (1917–1944). Known as an expert in Expressionism in Germany during the Weimar Republic, he was credited with producing or directing many celebrated productions at the company, including Brecht’s first staged play, Drums in the Night, in 1922, as well as works by Wedekind, August Strindberg, and William Shakespeare. Since the end of World War II in 1945, artistic leadership has been in the hands of Erich Engel (1945–1947), Hans Schweikart (1947–1963), August Everding (1963–1973), Hans-Reinhard Müller (1973–1983), Dieter Dorn (1983–2001), and Frank Baumbauer (2001–2009). In 2010, Johan Simons was appointed artistic director.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP]  as an assistant director on tours in Argentina, Brazil and Chile. After her stay in South America she was engaged in Nuremberg and then went to the Theater Oberhausen in 1968. This was followed by firm and individual contracts in Hamburg, Hanover, Munich, Bern, Stuttgart, Krefeld, Bregenz, Bonn, Nuremberg, Cologne and Düsseldorf. She was part of several tour productions and took part in the summer games in Wunsiedel and Feuchtwangen. On television she had guest appearances in Lindenstraße, Der Fahnder, Die Anrheiner, 7 Tage Glück and in the feature film Engel & Joe. She also synchronizes and speaks radio commercials.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP]  Dr. Jürgen Wilhelm was the last Director General. They worked primarily in the following areas: Promotion of Economic and employment promotion, Promotion of democracy, Rural development and conservation of resources, Water, Civil conflict management and promotion of peace, and Health.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] Friedrich Merten, Chief Executive of Film-Finanz, Berlin ; Dr. Josef Joham, board member of the Creditanstalt, Vienna ; Willi Forst, film director, Vienna ; Carl Froelich, film director and president of the Reichsfilmkammer, Berlin ; Dr. Karl Ott, Ministerialdirektor, Berlin ; Hermann Burmeister, Ministerialrat, Berlin ; Heinrich Post, bank director, Berlin The first directors of Wien-Film were general director Fritz Hirt, Paul Hach and the Viennese film director Karl Hartl, who also remained chief of production right to the end. The making of cultural films was under the direction of Dr. Josef Lebzelter of the former Selenophon-Film company. Overall control of film productions – from the initial idea to the screening - was the responsibility of the Reichsfilmdramaturg and later the Reichsfilmintendant. The first board meeting took place on 16 December 1938, at which the advisers were also appointed. These were:  The stars of Wien-Film until
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] Valy Arnheim  Valy Arnheim (born Valentin Theodor Woldemar Appel; 8 June 1883 – 11 November 1950) was a German film actor and director.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] Olaf Fjord  Olaf Fjord (born Ämilian Maximilian Pouch; 3 August 1897 – 19 April 1945) was an Austrian actor, film director and film producer.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] Inge Landgut  Inge Landgut (23 November 1922 – 29 May 1986) was a German child actress. She is probably best-remembered for playing Pony Hütchen in "Emil and the Detectives" and as the child murder victim Elsie Beckmann in Fritz Lang's classic "M", both films were released in 1931. Landgut continued her acting career into adulthood, making both film and television appearances.  During her later years, Inge Landgut also worked frequently in the German voice-dubbing business. She provided the German voice for actresses like Lois Maxwell as Miss Moneypenny in the James Bond films and Barbara Bel Geddes as Miss Ellie Ewing from "Dallas". She was also the German voice of Wilma in "The Flintstones" and voiced figures in Disney classics like "Dumbo", "Lady and the Tramp" and "One Hundred and One Dalmatians".  Inge Landgut was married to director and actor Werner Oehlschläger (1904–1980) from 1952 until his death.
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] was appointed as managing director of Oslo Kinematografer by Reichskommissar Josef Terboven in 1940, when the previous managing director Kristoffer Aamot had been fired the same day. Berg-Jæger had joined Nasjonal Samling a week in advance. He was installed as theatre director at the National Theatre by the Nazi authorities from 1941 to 1945, and led the theatre in a difficult period, when the theatre was more or less boycotted by the public. He was also national program director (director of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation) in six weeks in 1941–1942. From 1942 he was the chairman of Norsk Film, and
Who was the director of Indizienbeweis? [SEP] to be director of OLAF from 1 March 2000. Dutch EP member Paul van Buitenen has criticized Brüner heavily on several occasions, suggesting that the fraud hunter acted less than scrupulously himself. In particular, selection procedures for staff are suspected to have been irregular, lacking in transparency and not in accordance with the Staff Regulations of the European Commission. Brüner died on 9 January 2010. http://www.neurope.eu/articles/99753.php Franz-Hermann Brüner Franz-Hermann Brüner (14 September 1945 – 9 January 2010) was a German public official who served as the director-general of OLAF, the European Union Anti-Fraud Office. He was first appointed to the
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP]  Happy Accidents is a 2000 American science fiction romantic comedy film starring Marisa Tomei and Vincent D'Onofrio. The film follows Ruby Weaver, a New York City woman with a string of failed relationships, and Sam Deed, a man who claims to be from the year 2470. The film was shot almost entirely in Brooklyn, New York.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP]  Accident is Harold Pinter's 1967 British dramatic film adaptation of the 1965 novel by Nicholas Mosley. It is the third of four collaborations between Pinter and director Joseph Losey; the others are The Servant (1963), Modesty Blaise (1966) and The Go-Between (1971) At the 1967 Cannes Film Festival, Accident won the Grand Prix Spécial du Jury award. It also won the prestigious Grand Prix of the Belgian Film Critics Association.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP]  Christine Oestreicher (born 29 October 1940) is a British film producer and director who was awarded an Oscar in 1983 for the film A Shocking Accident, a 1982 short film based on a story by Graham Greene.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Georges Rivière as Julien ; Magali Noël as Andréa ; Danik Patisson as Françoise Cassel ; Roland Lesaffre as The Goualec ; Jean Combal as police inspector
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP]  The film opens up as a young prosecutor is handed her toughest assignment: a truck driver charged with reckless driving. She has to prove that he was negligent and kept falling asleep at the wheel. After crashing his semi into a sports car, his rig turns over, gas starts leaking out and a fire ensues, shutting down the lights in the long tunnel. Unfortunately, due to the long size of the tunnel, or tube as it is known, it was impossible for rescue personnel to get in the tunnel to give adequate medical attention to the people seriously injured. There are several flashbacks, where survivors recall the accident, including a grieving father named Giuseppe Paoletti, portrayed by Flavio Insinna, an Italian family man who is driving his wife and son to Austria, who emotionally describes his account of what happened after the accident. There are several twists and turns throughout the story.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Twilight Zone accident  On July 23, 1982, a Bell UH-1 Iroquois helicopter crashed at Indian Dunes in Valencia, California, United States, during the making of "". The crash killed actor Vic Morrow and child actors Myca Dinh Le and Renee Shin-Yi Chen, who were on the ground, and injured the six helicopter passengers. The incident led to years of civil and criminal action against the personnel overseeing the shoot, including director John Landis, and the introduction of new procedures and safety standards in the filmmaking industry.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Crash (2004 film)  Crash is a 2004 crime drama film produced, directed, and co-written by Paul Haggis. A self-described "passion piece" for Haggis, the film features racial and social tensions in Los Angeles and was inspired by a real-life incident in which Haggis's Porsche was carjacked in 1991 outside a video store on Wilshire Boulevard. The film features an ensemble cast, including Sandra Bullock, Don Cheadle (who also worked as a producer on the film), Matt Dillon, Jennifer Esposito, William Fichtner, Brendan Fraser, Terrence Howard, Chris "Ludacris" Bridges, Thandiwe Newton, Michael Peña, and Ryan Phillippe.  "Crash" first premiered at the 2004 Toronto International Film Festival on September 10, 2004, before it was released in theaters on May 6, 2005, by Lions Gate Films. The film received positive reviews from critics, who praised the direction and performances (particularly Dillon's), but criticized the portrayal of race relations as simplistic and unsubtle. The film was a success at the box office, earning $98.4 million worldwide against its $6.5 million budget.  The film earned several accolades and nominations. Dillon received nominations for Best Supporting Actor from the Academy Awards, BAFTA, Golden Globe, and Screen Actors Guild. Additionally, the cast won the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture. The film received six Academy Award nominations, and controversially won three for Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, and Best Film Editing at the 78th Academy Awards. It was also nominated for nine BAFTA Awards and won two, for Best Original Screenplay and Best Supporting Actress for Newton.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Rust shooting incident  On October 21, 2021, at the Bonanza Creek Ranch in Bonanza City, New Mexico, United States, cinematographer Halyna Hutchins was fatally shot and director Joel Souza was injured on the set of the film "Rust" when a live round was discharged from a revolver used as a prop by actor Alec Baldwin. The weapon had not been thoroughly checked for safety in advance.  , the incident is being investigated by the Santa Fe County Sheriff's Office, the New Mexico First Judicial District Attorney, the New Mexico Occupational Health and Safety Bureau, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. Production of "Rust" was suspended until January 2023, and the incident prompted a discourse on occupational safety in the film industry, the treatment of its employees, and the use of real guns as props.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Crash (1996 film)  Crash is a 1996 psychological drama film written, produced and directed by David Cronenberg, based on J. G. Ballard's 1973 novel of the same name. Starring James Spader, Deborah Kara Unger, Elias Koteas, Holly Hunter and Rosanna Arquette, it follows a film producer who, after surviving a car crash, becomes involved with a group of symphorophiliacs who are aroused by car crashes, and tries to rekindle his sexual relationship with his wife.  The film premiered at the Cannes Film Festival, where it received the Special Jury Prize, a unique award that is distinct from the Jury Prize as it is not given annually, but only at the request of the official jury (for example, the previous year, both a Jury Prize and a Special Jury Prize were awarded). When then-jury president Francis Ford Coppola announced the award "for originality, for daring and for audacity", he stated that it had been a controversial choice and that certain jury members "did abstain very passionately". It continued to receive various accolades, including six Genie Awards from the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television, including awards for Cronenberg as director and screenwriter; the film was also nominated in two further categories, including Best Picture.  The film's initial release was met with intense controversy and opened to highly divergent reactions from critics; some praised the film for its daring premise and originality, others aimed criticism for having such a strange premise filled with graphic violence. It has since developed a cult following among Cronenberg fans.
Who was the director of Accident? [SEP] Tom Shadyac  Thomas Peter Shadyac (born December 11, 1958) is an American director, screenwriter, producer, and author. The youngest joke-writer ever for comedian Bob Hope, Shadyac is widely known for writing and directing the comedy films "", "The Nutty Professor", "Liar Liar", "Patch Adams", and "Bruce Almighty". In 2010, Shadyac retired from the comedy genre and wrote, directed, and narrated his own documentary film "I Am", that explores his abandonment of a materialistic lifestyle following his involvement in a bicycle accident three years earlier.  Shadyac is a former professor of communication at Pepperdine University's Seaver College. In 2011, he was a participant in the Conference on World Affairs. In 2015, Shadyac began teaching film at the University of Colorado Boulder, beginning with that year's Spring semester. Shadyac teaches film at the University of Memphis.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP]  Fingers is a 1978 American crime drama film directed by James Toback. The film is about a troubled young man being pulled between his mob father and his mentally disturbed pianist mother.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP]  Jimmy "Fingers" Angelelli (Harvey Keitel) is a brilliant young pianist who also works as a debt collector for his father Ben (Michael V. Gazzo), a local loan shark. Wherever Jimmy goes, he always carries a stereo with him, playing classic rock from the 1950s and 1960s. While trying to concentrate on an upcoming recital interview at Carnegie Hall, Jimmy loses focus when he falls for a woman named Carol (Tisa Farrow). He gets further sidetracked when collecting a large debt from a mafioso named Riccamonza (Tony Sirico), who eventually threatens Ben's life. This forces Jimmy to seek retribution.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP]  20 Angosht, released in English-speaking markets as 20 Fingers, is a 2004 Iranian film directed by Mania Akbari. It stars the director herself and producer Bijan Daneshmand as a couple (or possibly different couples) discussing their relationship and arguing in seven vignettes shot in several long takes on a DV camera. The film deals with controversial topics such as divorce and homosexuality and has not yet received permission to be shown uncut in its native country. It has achieved mild international success, winning Best Digital Film at the 61st Venice International Film Festival in 2004, where it premiered.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] Winner of the Best feature film in Venezia Cinema Digital Section (Venice, Italy - 2004) ; The Grand jury prize for the spirit of freedom in Bahamas International Film Festival (Bahamas - 2004) ; Special Mention Femina International Women's Film Festival (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil - 2005) ; Winner of Best Director and Best Actress Digital International Barcelona Film Festival (Barcelona, Spain - 2005) ; Winner of the Most Innovative film Award Wine Country International Film Festival (California, USA - 2005)
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP]  The music video was Roxette's first collaboration with director Jonas Åkerlund, who would go on to direct a total of twelve music videos for the duo.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] Michael Matthews (director)  Michael Matthews is a South African writer, producer and director. In 2017, he directed "Five Fingers for Marseilles", a film that won best film category at 14th Africa Movie Academy Awards.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] 5 Fingers  5 Fingers, known also as Five Fingers, is a 1952 American spy film directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and produced by Otto Lang. The screenplay written by Michael Wilson was based on the 1950 book "Operation Cicero" (original German: "Der Fall Cicero") by Ludwig Carl Moyzisch, Nazi commercial attaché at the German embassy in Ankara, Turkey (1943–44).  The film is based on the true story of Albanian-born Elyesa Bazna, a spy with the code name of Cicero who worked for the Nazis in 1943–44 while he was employed as valet to the British ambassador to Turkey, Sir Hughe Montgomery Knatchbull-Hugessen. Bazna would photograph top-secret documents and deliver the pictures to Franz von Papen, the German ambassador in Turkey and a former German chancellor, using Moyzisch as the intermediary.  James Mason plays Ulysses Diello (Cicero), the character based on Bazna. The film also stars Danielle Darrieux, Michael Rennie, Herbert Berghof and Walter Hampden.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] National Crime Records Bureau  The National Crime Records Bureau, abbreviated to NCRB, is an Indian government agency responsible for collecting and analyzing crime data as defined by the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Special and Local Laws (SLL). NCRB is headquartered in New Delhi and is part of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), Government of India. The current Director of National Crime Record Bureau is Ramphal Pawar (IPS).  NCRB was set-up in 1986 to function as a repository of information on crime and criminals so as to assist the investigators in linking crime to the perpetrators. It was set up based on the recommendation of the Task force, 1985 and National Police Commission, 1977 by merging the Directorate of Coordination and Police Computer (DCPC), Inter State Criminals Data Branch of CBI and Central Finger Print Bureau of CBI. Earlier Statistical Branch of Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPR&D) was also merged with NCRB, but was later de-merged.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] Fingers (1978 film)  Fingers is a 1978 American crime drama film directed by James Toback. The film is about a troubled young man being pulled between his mob father and his mentally disturbed pianist mother.
Who was the director of Fingers? [SEP] Bill Finger  Milton "Bill" Finger (February 8, 1914 – January 18, 1974) was an American comic strip, comic book, film and television writer who was the co-creator (with Bob Kane) of the DC Comics character Batman. Despite making major (sometimes, signature) contributions as an innovative writer, visionary mythos/world builder and illustration architect, Finger (and other creators of his era) was often relegated to ghostwriter status on many comics—including Batman, and the original Green Lantern, Alan Scott.  While Kane privately admitted in a 1980s audio interview with his autobiographer that Finger was responsible for "50–75% of all the creativity in Batman," for decades he publicly denied Finger had been anything more than a subcontractor executing Kane's ideas. As a result, Finger died in obscurity and poverty while the Batman brand, and Kane, amassed international fame and wealth. In the 2000s, Finger biographer Marc Tyler Nobleman's research uncovered previously unknown heirs. At the urging of Nobleman, the online comics fan community and others, Finger's granddaughter revived the fight to restore his lost legacy, which continued for years. In 2015, DC Comics' parent company conditionally agreed to recognize Finger's intellectual property claim as co-creator of the Batman characters and mythos, officially adding his name, going forward, to the "created by" credit line Kane had gotten contractually guaranteed in 1939.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP]  The Girl in Mourning (La niña de luto) is a 1964 Spanish comedy film directed by Manuel Summers. It was entered into the 1964 Cannes Film Festival. The film was also selected as the Spanish entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 37th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP]  (widow of James H. Brown, first assistant director on The Birds and Marnie, who knew Hitchcock for several years) said that her husband would not have endorsed The Girls interpretation of events and the film's portrayal of Hitchcock would have saddened him. Gwyneth Hughes interviewed James Brown as part of her background research for the film, but he died before the film was completed. In October 2012, Nora Brown told The Daily Telegraph that she had written to Hughes expressing her anger. Hughes has said that James H. Brown backed up Hedren's claims of sexual harassment. Tony Lee Moral, author of two books about the making of the Hitchcock films in
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP]  The Dead Girl is a 2006 American drama thriller film written and directed by Karen Moncrieff, starring Brittany Murphy, Toni Collette, Rose Byrne and Marcia Gay Harden. The film was nominated for several 2007 Independent Spirit Awards including Best Feature and Best Director. It is the story of a young woman's death and the people linked to her murder. It also features Mary Beth Hurt, Kerry Washington, James Franco, Giovanni Ribisi, Josh Brolin, Mary Steenburgen and Piper Laurie. The film was premiered at the AFI Film Festival (7 November 2006), and was given a limited US theatrical release on 29 December 2006. It was generally well received. It only ran for two weeks in US first-run theaters, and earned nearly all its revenue from overseas release.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP]  Pabst began his career as a film director at the behest of Carl Froelich who hired Pabst as an assistant director. He directed his first film, The Treasure, in 1923. He developed a talent for "discovering" and developing the talents of actresses, including Greta Garbo, Asta Nielsen, Louise Brooks, and Leni Riefenstahl. Pabst's best known films concern the plight of women, including The Joyless Street (1925) with Greta Garbo and Asta Nielsen, Secrets of a Soul (1926) with Lili Damita, The Loves of Jeanne Ney (1927) with Brigitte Helm, Pandora's Box (1929), and Diary of a Lost Girl (1929) with American actress Louise Brooks. He also co-directed with Arnold Fanck a mountain film entitled The White Hell of Pitz Palu (1929) starring Leni
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP]  Me and Earl and the Dying Girl, which he directed, was a selection for the U.S. Dramatic Competition at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival. It won the award as well as the US drama audience prize. Gomez-Rejon was attached to direct Will Smith in the New York-set indie drama Collateral Beauty, scripted by Allan Loeb. However, he later dropped out of the project due to creative differences. Gomez-Rejon directed the historical drama The Current War.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP] Death Note  Death Note (stylized in all caps) is a Japanese manga series written by Tsugumi Ohba and illustrated by Takeshi Obata. It was serialized in Shueisha's "shōnen" manga magazine "Weekly Shōnen Jump" from December 2003 to May 2006, with its 108 chapters collected in 12 "tankōbon" volumes. The story follows Light Yagami, a teen genius who discovers a mysterious notebook: the "Death Note", which belonged to the "shinigami" Ryuk, and grants the user the supernatural ability to kill anyone whose name is written in its pages. The series centers around Light's subsequent attempts to use the Death Note to carry out a worldwide massacre of individuals whom he deems immoral and to create a crime-free society, using the alias of a god-like vigilante named "Kira", and the subsequent efforts of an elite Japanese police task force, led by enigmatic detective L, to apprehend him.  A 37-episode anime television series adaptation, produced by Madhouse and directed by Tetsurō Araki, was broadcast on Nippon Television from October 2006 to June 2007. A light novel based on the series, written by Nisio Isin, was also released in 2006. Additionally, various video games have been published by Konami for the Nintendo DS. The series was adapted into three live action films released in Japan in June 2006, , and , and a television drama in 2015. A miniseries titled "" and were released in 2016. An American film adaptation was released exclusively on Netflix in August 2017 and a sequel is reportedly in the works.  "Death Note" media, except for video games and soundtracks, is licensed and released in North America by Viz Media. The episodes from the anime first appeared in North America as downloadable from IGN before Viz Media licensed it. The series was aired on YTV's Bionix anime block in Canada and on Adult Swim in the United States with a DVD release following. The live-action films briefly played in certain North American theaters, in 2008, before receiving home video releases. As of April 2015, the "Death Note" manga had over 30 million copies in circulation.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP] Happy Death Day  Happy Death Day is a 2017 American black comedy slasher film directed by Christopher Landon, and written by Scott Lobdell. It stars Jessica Rothe and Israel Broussard. The film was produced by Jason Blum through his Blumhouse Productions banner, in association with Digital Riot Media and Vesuvius Productions. It follows a college student who is murdered on the night of her birthday and begins reliving the day repeatedly, at which point she sets out to find the killer and stop her death.  Originally announced in 2007 under the title "Half to Death", the film was released on October 13, 2017, by Universal Pictures. It grossed $125million worldwide on a $4.8million budget, with critics deeming the film entertaining and praising Rothe's performance while acknowledging the familiar premise, and describing it as ""Groundhog Day" meets "Scream"".<ref name="opening" /> A sequel, "Happy Death Day 2U", was released on February 13, 2019.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP] Good Mourning (film)  Good Mourning is a 2022 American stoner comedy film directed, produced, written and starring Colson Baker and Mod Sun. It also stars Zach Villa and GaTa, with Becky G, Megan Fox and Dove Cameron. It was released on May 20, 2022.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP] ABCs of Death 2  ABCs of Death 2 is a 2014 American comedy horror anthology film produced by Ant Timpson and Tim League. It contains 26 different shorts, each by different directors spanning various countries. It is a sequel to the 2012 film "The ABCs of Death". Directors featured include Jim Hosking, Lancelot Oduwa Imasuen, the Soska sisters, Julian Barrett, Rodney Ascher, Kristina Buožytė, Larry Fessenden, Navot Papushado, Aharon Keshales, Bill Plympton, and Vincenzo Natali.  The film received a much more positive response than its predecessor. A second sequel, "ABCs of Death 2.5", was released in late 2016.
Who was the director of The Girl in Mourning? [SEP] Death Becomes Her  Death Becomes Her is a 1992 American satirical black comedy fantasy film directed and produced by Robert Zemeckis. Written by David Koepp and Martin Donovan, it stars Meryl Streep and Goldie Hawn as rivals who fight for the affections of the same man (Bruce Willis) and drink a magic potion that promises eternal youth, but causes unpleasant side effects.  Filming began in December 1991 and concluded in April 1992, and was shot entirely in Los Angeles. Released on July 31, 1992, to mixed reviews from critics, "Death Becomes Her" was a commercial success, grossing $149 million worldwide on $55 million budget. The film was a pioneer in the use of computer-generated effects; it went on to win the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects.
Who was the director of September? [SEP]   September Films, a UK independent television and film production company, is a division of UK independent production and distribution group DCD Media. It specialises in factual entertainment, documentaries and features, reality programming and entertainment formats. It was founded in 1992 by feature film director David Green, who devised the groundbreaking Hollywood Women series that launched the company, and was acquired in August 2007 by DCD Media. Having produced over 2,000 hours of primetime television since its creation, September has offices in London and Los Angeles. In recent years, September Films has expanded into all non-fiction genres and formats with the appointment of a new generation of creative executives.
Who was the director of September? [SEP] "September Rain" (Ost fikm Dangerous tour (Command Performance)), director Feodor Bondarchuk (2006) ; "Space" (in a leading role of Dolph Lundgren), director Yury Grymov (2006) ; "Shoppingtherepy", director Ekaterina Grohovsky (2008) ; "Whether you, whether he" (feat. Andrey Zvonky), director Pavel Khudyakov (2010) ; "I will make everything as you want" (2011)
Who was the director of September? [SEP]  September is a 2007 Australian drama film, directed by Peter Carstairs and produced by John Polson. Set in Western Australia's wheatbelt in 1968 (though filmed at Harden, New South Wales), it stars Xavier Samuel and Clarence John Ryan as two teenagers whose interracial friendship struggles to withstand the expectations of their community. The film sensitively documents the disparity and discrimination faced by the country's Aboriginal people.
Who was the director of September? [SEP]  September is a 2003 German drama film directed by Max Färberböck. It was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 2003 Cannes Film Festival. The subject matter is the effect of the September 11 attacks.
Who was the director of September? [SEP] (1999) The Runner, directed by Ron Moler, compositions for scene and closing credits (The Search, The Light) ; (2004) Malcontents, directed by Maurey Loeffler, scoring and composition for short film. ; (2006–2008) Douglas September Videos on YouTube ; (2008) Sundays in Television, Podcast
Who was the director of September? [SEP] September (1987 film)  September is a 1987 drama film written and directed by Woody Allen. The film is modeled on Anton Chekhov's 1899 play "Uncle Vanya", though the gender roles are often subverted.  Allen's intention for" September" was that it be like "a play on film," hence the great number of long takes and few camera effects. The film does not use Allen as an actor, and is one of his straightforwardly dramatic films. The cast includes Mia Farrow, Sam Waterston, Dianne Wiest, Elaine Stritch, Jack Warden, and Denholm Elliott.  Critical response to "September" was generally lukewarm.
Who was the director of September? [SEP] September (2007 film)  September is a 2007 Australian drama film, directed by Peter Carstairs and produced by John Polson. Set in Western Australia's wheatbelt in 1968 (though filmed at Harden, New South Wales), it stars Xavier Samuel and Clarence John Ryan as two teenagers whose interracial friendship struggles to withstand the expectations of their community. The film sensitively documents the disparity and discrimination faced by the country's Aboriginal people.
Who was the director of September? [SEP] The September Issue  The September Issue is a 2009 American documentary film directed by R.J. Cutler about the behind-the-scenes drama that follows editor-in-head Anna Wintour and her staff during the production of the September 2007 issue of American "Vogue" magazine.  The film was released in Australia on August 20, 2009, after being screened at numerous film festivals including Sundance, Zurich, Silverdocs, and Sheffield Doc/Fest. It was released in select theaters in the United States on August 28, 2009, by Roadside Attractions.
Who was the director of September? [SEP] Director-General of the World Trade Organization  The director-general of the World Trade Organization is the officer of the World Trade Organization (WTO) responsible for supervising and directing the organization's administrative operations. Since the World Trade Organization's decisions are made by member states, either through a Ministerial Conference or through the General Council, the director-general has little power over matters of policy – the role is primarily advisory and managerial in nature. The director-general supervises the WTO secretariat of about 700 staff and is appointed by WTO members for a term of four years.  The post of Director-General had been vacant since 31 August 2020, after the resignation of Roberto Azevêdo of Brazil who had held the post since 1 September 2013. On February 5, 2021, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala of Nigeria secured the support of the United States for Director-General of the WTO. Okonjo-Iweala assumed office on 1 March 2021, and became both the first woman and the first African to hold this position.  Before the formation of the WTO, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) had a series of directors-general. Peter Sutherland was the last director-general of GATT and the first of the WTO.
Who was the director of September? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]  Return is a 2011 independent film about an American reservist, wife and mother returning home from her tour of duty in the Middle East. The film was written and directed by Liza Johnson, and stars Linda Cardellini, Michael Shannon and John Slattery. It is Johnson's first feature-length film, and received good reviews at its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival Directors' Fortnight. Linda Cardellini was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead for her performance in the film.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]  The Return is a 2006 American psychological horror film directed by Asif Kapadia and starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, Kate Beahan, Peter O'Brien, and Sam Shepard. It was released theatrically on November 10, 2006, and on DVD on February 27, 2007. The Blu-ray was released on October 6, 2009.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]  Return was based on the 1972 novel Some Other Place. The Right Place. by Donald Harington. The film was shot in Los Angeles and Massachusetts, and was released in theaters January 24, 1986. It was released on VHS in 1988, with an "R" rating.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]  Return was the sole U.S. film selected for the 25-film 2011 Cannes Film Festival Directors' Fortnight. Following its premiere at the festival, The Boston Globe reviewer Wesley Morris wrote, "I like Johnson's delicacy and discretion. She trusts Cardellini's natural, easygoing performance to show us what goes untold. The movie is modest, too, and its small emotional scale works. Without asking for pity or outrage, it's another movie about the unaccountable, unending drain of war." On review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 83% based on 41 reviews, with an average rating of 6.53/10. The website's critics consensus reads: "Powered by a compelling central performance by Linda Cardellini, Return offers a painfully compelling look at the emotional struggles faced by war veterans." On
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]  The Returning is a 1990 Australia-New Zealand horror film directed by John Day.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP] Return of the Jedi  Return of the Jedi (also known as Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi is a 1983 American epic space opera film directed by Richard Marquand. The screenplay is by Lawrence Kasdan and George Lucas from a story by Lucas, who was also the executive producer. The sequel to "Star Wars" (1977) and "The Empire Strikes Back" (1980), it is the third installment in the original "Star Wars" trilogy, the third film to be produced, and the sixth chronological film in the "Skywalker Saga". The film stars Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, David Prowse, Kenny Baker, Peter Mayhew and Frank Oz.  Set one year after "The Empire Strikes Back", the Galactic Empire is constructing a second Death Star to exterminate the Rebel Alliance. With intel that the Emperor will be onboard, the Rebel fleet launches a full-scale attack on the Death Star in hopes of both destroying it and the Emperor. Meanwhile, Rebel hero Luke Skywalker, now a Jedi Knight, struggles to bring his father, Darth Vader, back to the light side of the Force.  Following Lucas and Kasdan's discussion on making "Return of the Jedi", the film went into production. Steven Spielberg, David Lynch and David Cronenberg were considered to direct the project before Marquand signed on as director. The production team relied on Lucas' storyboards during pre-production. While writing the shooting script, Lucas, Kasdan, Marquand, and producer Howard Kazanjian spent two weeks in conference discussing ideas to construct it. Kazanjian's schedule pushed shooting to begin a few weeks early to allow Industrial Light & Magic more time to work on the film's effects in post-production. Filming took place in England, California, and Arizona from January to .  The film was released in theaters on May 25, 1983. It grossed $374 million during its initial theatrical run, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1983. Overall, the film was well-received by critics, with strong praise going to the special effects and action sequences, performances, John Williams' score, and emotional weight. While retrospective reviews have remained positive, "Return of the Jedi" is widely considered to be the weakest film in the original trilogy. Several re-releases and revisions to the film have followed over the decades, which has also brought its total gross to $475 million. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2021.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP] Superman Returns  Superman Returns is a 2006 American superhero film directed by Bryan Singer and written by Michael Dougherty and Dan Harris from a story by Singer, Dougherty and Harris based on the DC Comics character Superman. It is the sixth and final installment in the original "Superman" film series and serves as an homage sequel to "Superman" (1978) and "Superman II" (1980), while ignoring the events of "Superman III" (1983), "Supergirl" (1984), and "" (1987).<ref name="ct"/> The film stars Brandon Routh as Clark Kent/Superman, Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane, Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor, with James Marsden, Frank Langella, and Parker Posey. The film tells the story of the title character returning to Earth after a five-year absence. He finds that his love interest Lois Lane has moved on with her life, and that his archenemy Lex Luthor is plotting a scheme to kill Superman and reshape North America.  After a series of unsuccessful projects to resurrect "Superman" on screen following the critical and financial failure of "The Quest for Peace", Warner Bros. Pictures hired Bryan Singer to direct and develop "Superman Returns" in July 2004. The majority of principal photography took place at Fox Studios Australia, Sydney, while the visual effects sequences were created by a number of studios, including Sony Pictures Imageworks, Rhythm & Hues, Framestore, Rising Sun Pictures, and The Orphanage; filming began in March 2005 and ended in November.  Upon release, the film received generally positive reviews from critics, who complimented its visual effects, story, and Singer's direction. However, it received criticism focusing on its runtime and lack of action sequences. Even though it was the ninth highest-grossing film of 2006, Warner Bros. was disappointed with the worldwide box office return of the film, cancelling a sequel planned for 2009 as a result. The "Superman" film series was completely rebooted in 2013 with "Man of Steel", directed by Zack Snyder, starring Henry Cavill as Superman, and launching the DC Extended Universe. Routh later reprised his role as Superman in the 2019 Arrowverse crossover "Crisis on Infinite Earths".
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP] Return of Hanuman  Return of Hanuman is a 2007 Indian Hindi-language animated action-adventure comedy film directed by Anurag Kashyap. A sequel to "Hanuman", it was produced by Shailendra Singh at Percept Picture Company and Toonz Animation, and the music was composed by Tapas Relia. It is a children's film and has been rated as an Educational Film by the CBFC because it deals with the issue of global warming. It was released in India on 28 December 2007.
Who was the director of The Return? [SEP] The Return of the Living Dead  The Return of the Living Dead is a 1985 American comedy horror film written and directed by Dan O'Bannon in his directorial debut, and starring Clu Gulager, James Karen, Thom Matthews and Don Calfa. The film tells the story of how a warehouse owner, accompanied by his two employees, mortician friend and a group of teenage punks, deal with the accidental release of a horde of unkillable, brain-hungry zombies onto an unsuspecting town.  The film, described as a "mordant punk comedy,"  The movie's soundtrack was noteworthy, as it featured several Los Angeles-based deathrock and punk rock bands of the era. The film was a critical success and performed moderately well at the box office. The film has spawned four sequels.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP]  Vanity is a 1935 British comedy film directed by Adrian Brunel and starring Jane Cain, Percy Marmont and John Counsell. The plot concerns a conceited actress, convinced of the general adoration in which she is held, faking her own death in order to gratify herself by observing the depth of grief caused by her demise. However the actual reactions to the "news" prove to be far from what she had expected.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP]  The Vanity Pool is a lost 1918 American silent film drama directed by Ida May Park and starring Mary MacLaren, Anna Q. Nilsson, and Thomas Holding. The script was based on a short story by Nalbro Bartley that was originally published in Young's Magazine. The film was produced and distributed by Universal Film Manufacturing Company. The film centered around a female lobbyist who becomes involved in political intrigue when she begins lobbying for the election of her friend's husband.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] 1982: "Nasty Girl", "He's So Dull", and "Drive Me Wild" ; 1984: "Pretty Mess" ; 1985: "7th Heaven" (video clips were from the movie The Last Dragon) ; 1986: "Under the Influence" ; 1988: "He Turned Me Out", a song performed by The Pointer Sisters from the soundtrack of Action Jackson. Vanity's co-star in the movie, Carl Weathers, appears alongside her in the video. Vanity appeared in seven released music videos:
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP]  Kenelm Foss (13 December 1885 – 28 November 1963) was a British actor, theatre director, author, screenwriter and film director. He was born in Croydon, Surrey and studied art at the Wellesley School of Art and in Paris. He was, however, more interested in theatre and in 1903 made his first appearance on the London stage at the Royal Court Theatre. He then spent four years at the Glasgow Repertory Theatre producing plays and acting before returning to London to manage the Lyric Theatre in the Strand. He directed the play Magic by G.K.Chesterton, which had been written specially for him in 1913, and which title was the caption to the Vanity
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP]  Vanity (Italian:Vanità) is a 1947 Italian historical melodrama film directed by Giorgio Pastina and starring Walter Chiari, Liliana Laine and Dina Galli. The film is based on a play by Carlo Bertolazzi. Chiari was awarded a Nastro d'Argento for best debut performance. It was made at the Icet Studios in Milan. The film is set in nineteenth century Milan.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] Vanity Fair (2004 film)  Vanity Fair is a 2004 historical drama film directed by Mira Nair and adapted from William Makepeace Thackeray's 1848 novel of the same name. The novel has been the subject of numerous television and film adaptations. Nair's version made notable changes in the development of main character Becky Sharp, played by Reese Witherspoon.  The film received several awards and nominations, including being nominated for the Golden Lion at the 2004 Venice Film Festival.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] Vanity Fair (magazine)  Vanity Fair is a monthly magazine of popular culture, fashion, and current affairs published by Condé Nast in the United States.  The first version of "Vanity Fair" was published from 1913 to 1936. The imprint was revived in 1983 and currently includes five international editions of the magazine. As of 2018, the Editor-in-Chief is Radhika Jones. Vanity Fair is most recognized for its celebrity pictures and the occasional controversy that surrounds its more risqué images. Furthermore, the publication is known for its energetic writing, in-depth reporting, and social commentary.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] Vanity Fair (American magazine 1913–1936)  Vanity Fair was an American society magazine published from 1913 to 1936. It was highly successful until the Great Depression led to its becoming unprofitable, and it was merged into "Vogue" in 1936. In the 1980s, the title was revived.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] Michael Roberts (fashion journalist)  Michael Roy Roberts (born 2 October 1947) is a British fashion journalist. He is the fashion and style director of "Vanity Fair" magazine. He has worked as fashion director for "The New Yorker", fashion editor of "The Sunday Times", style director and art director of "Tatler", design director of British "Vogue", Paris editor of "Vanity Fair", and editor of Boulevard Magazine. He has also worked as a fashion photographer and illustrator, contributing images to publications including "Vanity Fair"; "L'Uomo Vogue"; British, Italian, French, American, Chinese, Brazilian, and Japanese "Vogue"; "The Sunday Times"; and "The Independent on Sunday". He has published four books of his illustrations.  Roberts was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 2022 New Year Honours for services to fashion.
Who was the director of Vanity? [SEP] Mehemed Fehmy Agha  Dr. Mehemed Fehmy Agha (Mykolayiv, 1896 - Pennsylvania, 1978) was a Russian-born Turkish designer, art director, and pioneer of modern American publishing. He was instrumental in defining the role of the magazine art director and delivering the full force of European avant garde experimentation to the pages of "Vogue", "Vanity Fair," and "House & Garden", the Condé Nast publishing company's flagship magazines in the United States. §
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP]  Early in development, John Badham was slated to direct the film with Steve Martin as Elliot Hopper. Badham and Martin left the project for unknown reasons, and Universal hired Sidney Poitier and Bill Cosby to be their respective replacements.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP]  Ghost was the first film Jerry Zucker directed on his own. He had previously been part of the Zucker, Abrahams and Zucker directing team, known for their screwball comedies. Zucker stated that his decision to direct Ghost was not made to distance himself from comedies or to mark a new chapter in his career, but was merely “just looking for a good film to direct." Harrison Ford, Michael J. Fox, Paul Hogan, Tom Hanks, Kevin Bacon, Kevin Kline, Alec Baldwin and Tom Cruise were considered for the role of Sam Wheat. Bruce Willis turned down the role of Sam Wheat as he did not understand the script and later called himself a "knucklehead" for turning it down. Michelle Pfeiffer, Molly Ringwald, Meg Ryan, Julia Roberts and Nicole Kidman were considered for the role of Molly Jensen. Tina Turner and Oprah Winfrey auditioned for the role
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP]  The Ghost was shot in Rome. It is a Gothic re-imagining of the film Les Diaboliques (1955). The Italian production crew are credited by aliases. The music score is credited to "Franck Wallace", whom Italian magazine Bianco e Nero and the Monthly Film Bulletin claim is a pseudonym for Franco Mannino. When Beat Records re-released the score, they found the tapes credited to Francesco De Masi who is not credited in the film. Riccardo Freda had directed Barbara Steele in the horror film The Horrible Dr. Hichcock the previous year. In that film Steele's character was also married to a Doctor Hichcock, but neither character had any connection with those in The Ghost.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] cinematography: Hamid Angaji ; Sound Recorder: Souroosh Kevan ; Costume Designer: Nina Tabrizi ; Makeup designer: Mohammad Baghban ; Music: Hossein Shahabi ; Production manager: karim Nobakht ; producer: Hossein Shahabi ; produced in Baran film house iran 1998
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP]  Steven-Charles Jaffe (born 1951) is an American film producer, director, and screenwriter known for his work on such films as Motel Hell (1980), Near Dark (1987), Strange Days (1995), and the Best Picture-nominated romantic fantasy film Ghost. He is a long-time friend and collaborator of directors Nicholas Meyer and Kathryn Bigelow, and has worked with them on films like Time After Time (1979), Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country (1991), and K-19: The Widowmaker (2002). He is a member of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (1990 film)  Ghost is a 1990 American romantic fantasy film directed by Jerry Zucker from a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin, and starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg, Tony Goldwyn, Vincent Schiavelli, and Rick Aviles. The plot centers on Sam Wheat (Swayze), a murdered banker, whose ghost sets out to save his girlfriend, Molly Jensen (Moore), from the person who killed him – through the help of the psychic Oda Mae Brown (Goldberg).  "Ghost" was theatrically released on July 13, 1990, to commercial success, grossing $505 million against a budget of $22–23 million and emerging as the highest-grossing film of 1990 and at the time of its release, was the third-highest-grossing film of all time. The film received positive reviews from critics, with particular praise going towards the score and performances of the cast. "Ghost" earned five nominations at the 63rd Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Score, Best Film Editing, and winning Best Supporting Actress for Goldberg and Best Original Screenplay for Rubin.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost in the Shell (2017 film)  Ghost in the Shell is a 2017 science fiction action film directed by Rupert Sanders and written by Jamie Moss, William Wheeler and Ehren Kruger, based on the Japanese manga of the same name by Masamune Shirow. It stars Scarlett Johansson, Takeshi Kitano, Michael Pitt, Pilou Asbæk, Chin Han and Juliette Binoche. Set in a near future when the line between humans and robots is blurring, the plot follows the Major (Johansson), a cyborg supersoldier who investigates her past.  Filming for "Ghost in the Shell" took place in New Zealand from February to June 2016, with additional filming in Hong Kong that June. The film premiered in Tokyo on March 16, 2017, and was released in the United States on March 31, 2017, in IMAX, 3D, IMAX 3D, and 4DX. It received mixed reviews, with praise for its cast performances, visual style, action sequences, cinematography and musical score, but criticism for its plot and lack of character development. The casting of white actors (particularly Johansson) drew accusations of racism and whitewashing in the United States, despite Mamoru Oshii, director of the original anime, stating there was no basis for this accusation. It grossed $169.8 million worldwide against a production budget of $110 million. The film debuted at No. 2 on home media.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost of Tsushima  Ghost of Tsushima is a 2020 action-adventure game developed by Sucker Punch Productions and published by Sony Interactive Entertainment. The player controls Jin Sakai, a samurai on a quest to protect Tsushima Island during the first Mongol invasion of Japan. Jin must choose between following the warrior code to fight honorably, or using practical but dishonorable methods of repelling the Mongols with minimal casualties. The game features a large open world which can be explored either on foot or on horseback. When facing enemies, the player can choose to engage in a direct confrontation using Jin's katana or to become a legendary warrior known as "the Ghost" by using stealth tactics to assassinate opponents. A multiplayer mode titled "Ghost of Tsushima: Legends" was released in October 2020 and made available separately in September 2021.  Sucker Punch began developing the game after the release of "" in 2014, as the studio wanted to move on from the "Infamous" franchise to create a game with a heavy emphasis on melee combat. The studio collaborated with Japan Studio and visited Tsushima Island twice to ensure that the game was as culturally and historically authentic as possible. The team was heavily inspired by samurai cinema, particularly films directed by Akira Kurosawa, as well as the comic book series "Usagi Yojimbo". The game's landscape and minimalistic art style were influenced by "Shadow of the Colossus", and locations in the game were designed to be "the perfect photographer's dream". While the in-game landmass is similar in shape to Tsushima Island, the team did not intend to create a one-to-one recreation. Ilan Eshkeri and Shigeru Umebayashi composed the game's soundtrack.  The game was released for PlayStation 4 in July 2020, and an expanded version for PlayStation 4 and PlayStation 5, subtitled "Director's Cut" and featuring the "Iki Island" expansion, was released in August 2021. The game received positive reviews upon release, with critics praising the game's melee combat, story, characters, performances, and music, though it received some criticism for its implementations of stealth gameplay and open world structure. The game was a commercial success, selling more than 9.73 million copies by July 2022 and was one of Sony's fastest-selling original games. It was nominated for several end-of-the-year awards, including Game of the Year at The Game Awards 2020. A film adaptation is in development .
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost in the Shell (1995 film)  Ghost in the Shell is a 1995 adult animated neo-noir cyberpunk thriller film directed by Mamoru Oshii and adapted by frequent Oshii collaborator Kazunori Itō. The film is based on the manga of the same name by Masamune Shirow. It stars the voices of Atsuko Tanaka, Akio Ōtsuka, and Iemasa Kayumi. It is a Japanese-British international co-production, executive produced by Kodansha, Bandai Visual and Manga Entertainment, with animation provided by Production I.G.  The film is set in 2029 Japan, and follows Motoko Kusanagi, a cyborg public-security agent, who hunts a mysterious hacker known as the Puppet Master. The narrative incorporates philosophical themes that focus on self-identity in a technologically advanced world. The music, composed by Kenji Kawai, includes vocals in classical Japanese language. The film's visuals were created through a combination of traditional cel animation and CGI animation.  Upon release, "Ghost in the Shell" received positive reviews, with critics praising its narrative, visuals, and musical score. The film was initially considered a box-office failure before developing a cult following on home video. It has since grown in esteem and is now considered to be one of the best anime and science-fiction films of all time. It inspired filmmakers such as the Wachowskis, creators of the "Matrix" films, and James Cameron, who described it as "the first truly adult animation film to reach a level of literary and visual excellence".  An updated version of the film, "Ghost in the Shell 2.0", was released in 2008, featuring newly added digital effects, additional 3D animation and new audio. Oshii directed "", released in 2004, which was billed as a separate work and a non-canon sequel.
Who was the director of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost Rider (2007 film)  Ghost Rider is a 2007 American superhero film<ref name="Allmovie" /> based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name. The film was written and directed by Mark Steven Johnson, known for helming 2003's "Daredevil" previously, and stars Nicolas Cage as Johnny Blaze / Ghost Rider, with Eva Mendes, Wes Bentley, Sam Elliott, Donal Logue, Matt Long, and Peter Fonda in supporting roles.  "Ghost Rider" was released on February 16, 2007, in the United States. The film was met with negative reviews from critics, but was a box office success, earning $228.7 million worldwide on a $110 million budget. "Ghost Rider" was released on DVD, Blu-ray and UMD on June 12, 2007. A sequel, titled "", was released on February 17, 2012, with Cage reprising his role.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP]  As director
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP]  Festival at Lincoln Center. Mandel went on to become a successful film director, as well as a television series director, having directed Lost, Nash Bridges and The Practice. He was the director of the pilot for The X-Files and the sixth episode of Prison Break. Mandel was the original director hired on for what was then titled Carrie 2: Say You're Sorry but quickly left the production over "creative differences." Katt Shea took over as director for the film, which was eventually released as The Rage: Carrie 2. Mandel was the dean of AFI Conservatory for nine years from 2005 to 2014. He was the first alumnus of the program to be selected a dean.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] Arthur Huntington Nason, 1916–1932 ; no director, 1932–1946 ; Jean B. Barr (interim director), 1946–1952 ; Filmore Hyde, 1952–1957 ; Wilbur McKee, acting director, 1957–1958 ; William B. Harvey, 1958–1966 ; Christopher Kentera, 1966–1974 ; Malcolm C. Johnson, 1974–1981 ; Colin Jones, 1981–1996 ; Niko Pfund, 1996–2000 ; Steve Maikowski, 2001–2014 ; Ellen Chodosh, 2014–present
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP]  Director is a 2009 action film directed by Aleks Rosenberg, produced by Alex Cohen, and starring Claudia Davilla, Stephane Kay, Mike Paris and Wu-Tang Clan-affiliated group's Prodigal Sunn. The film is set in Miami, Florida.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] Coordinating Producer (1989) ; Producer (1989-1996) ; Supervising Producer (1996-1999) ; Director (1990's) Director (1986) Director (1980's) Lighting Director (1976-1982) ; Director (1987-1988) Director (2004-2005) Director (1980's) Director (1984-1985) Director (2001) Director (1980's) The Bold and the Beautiful Capitol Days of Our Lives General Hospital One Life to Live Rituals Santa Barbara Spyder Games The Young and the Restless
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] Board of directors  A board of directors (commonly referred simply as the board) is an executive committee that jointly supervises the activities of an organization, which can be either a for-profit or a nonprofit organization such as a business, nonprofit organization, or a government agency.  The powers, duties, and responsibilities of a board of directors are determined by government regulations (including the jurisdiction's corporate law) and the organization's own constitution and by-laws. These authorities may specify the number of members of the board, how they are to be chosen, and how often they are to meet.  In an organization with voting members, the board is accountable to, and may be subordinate to, the organization's full membership, which usually elect the members of the board. In a stock corporation, non-executive directors are elected by the shareholders, and the board has ultimate responsibility for the management of the corporation. In nations with codetermination (such as Germany and Sweden), the workers of a corporation elect a set fraction of the board's members.  The board of directors appoints the chief executive officer of the corporation and sets out the overall strategic direction. In corporations with dispersed ownership, the identification and nomination of directors (that shareholders vote for or against) are often done by the board itself, leading to a high degree of self-perpetuation. In a non-stock corporation with no general voting membership, the board is the supreme governing body of the institution, and its members are sometimes chosen by the board itself.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] One of These Nights (Red Velvet song)  "One of These Nights" () is a song recorded by South Korean girl group Red Velvet. Composed by Hwang Chan-hee, Andreas Öberg, Maria Marcus and penned by Seo Ji-eum of Jam Factory, it was released as the lead single from their second extended play, "The Velvet", which is also the group's first major release to focus on the 'Velvet' half of their unique dual concept, as a follow-up to their last album, "The Red". "One of These Nights" is an R&B mid-tempo song with lyrics inspired by the story of Jingnyeo and Gyeonu, a folk tale conceived from the Korean festival Chilseok which originates from the Chinese Qixi Festival which falls on the seventh day of the seventh month on the lunisolar calendar. Originally intended to be released a day earlier, SM Entertainment delayed the song and album's release to March 17, 2016, to ensure its quality.  The single received generally favorable reviews from music critics who compared the song to the group's more upbeat releases, but praised the transition which was hailed as a bold move at a time when K-pop artists commonly aimed to release the catchiest dance hit. It was fairly successful in the group's native country South Korea, becoming their fourth top-ten hit on the Gaon Digital Chart and number six on "Billboard's" World Digital Songs chart.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (film)  One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a 1975 American psychological comedy drama film directed by Miloš Forman, based on the 1962 novel of the same name by Ken Kesey. The film stars Jack Nicholson who plays a new patient at a mental institution alongside Louise Fletcher who plays an austere nurse. It also features a supporting cast of Will Sampson, Danny DeVito, Sydney Lassick, William Redfield, as well as Christopher Lloyd and Brad Dourif in their film debuts.  Filming began in January 1975 and lasted three months, taking place on location in Salem, Oregon, and the surrounding area, as well as Depoe Bay on the north Oregon coast. The producers decided to shoot the film in the Oregon State Hospital, an actual mental hospital, as this was also the setting of the novel. The hospital is still in operation (as of 2022), though the original buildings seen in the film have been demolished. The film released on November 19, 1975. Considered by many to be one of the greatest films ever made, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" is No. 33 on the American Film Institute's 100 Years... 100 Movies list.  The film was the second to win all five major Academy Awards (Best Picture, Actor in Lead Role, Actress in Lead Role, Director, and Screenplay) following "It Happened One Night" in 1934, an accomplishment not repeated until 1991 with "The Silence of the Lambs". It also won numerous Golden Globe and BAFTA Awards. In 1993, the film was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the United States Library of Congress, and selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] Theatre director  A theatre director or stage director is a professional in the theatre field who oversees and orchestrates the mounting of a theatre production such as a play, opera, dance, drama, musical theatre performance, etc. by unifying various endeavors and aspects of production. The director's function is to ensure the quality and completeness of theatre production and to lead the members of the creative team into realizing their artistic vision for it. The director thereby collaborates with a team of creative individuals and other staff to coordinate research and work on all the aspects of the production which includes the Technical and the Performance aspects. The technical aspects include: stagecraft, costume design, theatrical properties (props), lighting design, set design, and sound design for the production. The performance aspects include: acting, dance, orchestra, chants, and stage combat.  If the production is a new piece of writing or a (new) translation of a play, the director may also work with the playwright or a translator. In contemporary theatre, after the playwright, the director is generally the principle visionary, making decisions on the artistic conception and interpretation of the play and its staging. Different directors occupy different places of authority and responsibility, depending on the structure and philosophy of individual theatre companies. Directors use a wide variety of techniques, philosophies, and levels of collaboration.
Who was the director of One of Those? [SEP] Film director  A film director controls a film's artistic and dramatic aspects and visualizes the screenplay (or script) while guiding the film crew and actors in the fulfilment of that vision. The director has a key role in choosing the cast members, production design and all the creative aspects of filmmaking.  The film director gives direction to the cast and crew and creates an overall vision through which a film eventually becomes realized or noticed. Directors need to be able to mediate differences in creative visions and stay within the budget.  There are many pathways to becoming a film director. Some film directors started as screenwriters, cinematographers, producers, film editors or actors. Other film directors have attended a film school. Directors use different approaches. Some outline a general plotline and let the actors improvise dialogue, while others control every aspect and demand that the actors and crew follow instructions precisely. Some directors also write their own screenplays or collaborate on screenplays with long-standing writing partners. Other directors edit or appear in their films or compose the music score for their films.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP]  The current Director of Rugby, in charge of the selection and training of all teams is Cavan 'Towerblock' Keiran, a highly talented coaching prospect.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP]  Marcus Malvin Key was a public health administrator and practitioner who served as the first director for the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) in the U.S. government.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP]  John Walton Keys III (March 25, 1942 – May 30, 2008) was the Commissioner of the United States Bureau of Reclamation from 2001 to 2006. He was also a college football official for 20 years in the Big Sky Conference.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP]  Matthew Keyes (portrayed by Henry Czerny) is the director of the CIA who offered Alex Parrish a position within the organization. Shortly after the 2018 Hostage Crisis ended, it was revealed that he worked with Claire Haas in setting up the Presidential Covert Joint Task Force.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP]  Keys first began working with the Bureau of Reclamation as a civil and hydraulic engineer in 1964. In 1986, he was appointed the Northwest Regional Director, overseeing operations in Washington state, Oregon, Idaho, and parts of Montana and Wyoming. He retired from that position in 1998. For the next three years, Keys spent most of his time flying his personal aircraft for humanitarian purposes. He returned to the bureau when he was confirmed as commissioner in July 2001. Keys left the position of commissioner in 2006, but was at times consulted by his successor, Bob Johnson. Keys was an American football official for 40 years, including 20 years officiating college football games in the Big Sky Conference. He was the referee of the 1998 NCAA Division I-AA Football Championship Game between UMass and Georgia Southern. Keys died on May 30, 2008, when the Cessna 172 he was piloting crashed in the Four Corners area. He was a resident of Moab, Utah, at the time of his death.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP] Jordan Peele  Jordan Haworth Peele (born February 21, 1979) is an American actor, comedian, and filmmaker. He is best known for his film and television work in the comedy and horror genres. Peele started his career in sketch comedy before transiting his career as a writer and director of psychological horror and satirical films. In 2017, Peele was included on the annual "Time" 100 list of the most influential people in the world.  Peele's breakout role came in 2003, when he was hired as a cast member on the Fox sketch comedy series "Mad TV", where he spent five seasons, leaving the show in 2008. In the following years, he and his frequent "Mad TV" collaborator, Keegan-Michael Key, created and starred in their own Comedy Central sketch comedy series "Key & Peele" (2012–2015). The series was critically acclaimed, winning two Primetime Emmy Awards and a Peabody Award. The two wrote, produced, and starred in the comedy film "Keanu" (2016) and appeared in various projects since.  His 2017 directorial debut, the horror film "Get Out", was a critical and box office success, for which he received numerous accolades, including the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, along with nominations for Best Picture and Best Director. Critics have frequently named "Get Out" as one of the best films of the 21st century. He received another Academy Award nomination for Best Picture for producing Spike Lee's drama "BlacKkKlansman" (2018). He directed, wrote, and produced the acclaimed films "Us" (2019) and "Nope" (2022). He founded the film and television production company Monkeypaw Productions in 2012. He wrote and produced "Candyman" (2021), and "Wendell and Wild" (2022).  Peele has also voice acted in the animated film "" (2017) and in the adult animated sitcom "Big Mouth" (2017–present). He co-created the TBS comedy series "The Last O.G." (2018–2022) and the YouTube Premium comedy series "Weird City" (2019). He also served as the host and producer of the CBS All Access revival of the anthology series "The Twilight Zone" (2019–2020).
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP] Animation director  An animation director is either the director in charge of all aspects of the animation process during the production of an animated film or television, and animated segment for a live action film or television show, or the animator in charge of correcting layouts and drawings. The difference between the two is largely the difference between the western and eastern animation industries.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP] Film director  A film director controls a film's artistic and dramatic aspects and visualizes the screenplay (or script) while guiding the film crew and actors in the fulfilment of that vision. The director has a key role in choosing the cast members, production design and all the creative aspects of filmmaking.  The film director gives direction to the cast and crew and creates an overall vision through which a film eventually becomes realized or noticed. Directors need to be able to mediate differences in creative visions and stay within the budget.  There are many pathways to becoming a film director. Some film directors started as screenwriters, cinematographers, producers, film editors or actors. Other film directors have attended a film school. Directors use different approaches. Some outline a general plotline and let the actors improvise dialogue, while others control every aspect and demand that the actors and crew follow instructions precisely. Some directors also write their own screenplays or collaborate on screenplays with long-standing writing partners. Other directors edit or appear in their films or compose the music score for their films.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP] James Key (Formula One)  James Key (born 14 January 1972) is a British engineer who works in Formula One as executive technical director for McLaren.
Who was the director of The Key? [SEP] Hiroyuki Imaishi
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP]  Mary Hunter Wolf (December 4, 1904 – November 3, 2000), born Mary Hunter, was an American theater director and producer. She made her Broadway directorial debut on 4 April 1944 at the Bijou Theater with Only the Heart, the first play written by Horton Foote. She was director of the initial 1954 Broadway production of Jerome Robbins' version of Peter Pan, now the standard version on the American stage, and was founding executive director of the American Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford, Connecticut.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP]  In the autumn of 1951, Wolf moved to New York City. From 1951 to 1962, he worked in publishing, public relations, and advertising. During that time he was also the assistant director of Edith Halpert's Downtown Gallery in New York City where he developed relationships with many American Modernist masters that were represented by the gallery. From 1962 to 1976, Wolf served various capacities with the second largest talent agency in the world, General Artists Corporation, ultimately becoming the agency's vice president. During his time with GAC, he became known as an early champion of African American talent in the film and theater industries. He also cast actress Susan Sarandon in one of her earliest made for television movies, F. Scott Fitzgerald and 'The Last of the Belles'. Throughout his career, Wolf was also a consultant for American Broadcast Company, and Public Broadcasting Service for which he cast The Adams Chronicles, Hogan's Goat, and June Moon.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP]  In April 1945 Warner Bros bought the film rights as a vehicle for Barbara Stanwyck. Catherine Turney was assigned to do the script and Dennis Morgan announced as co star. The film took a while to be made. In March 1946, Errol Flynn was announced as co star and Peter Godfrey as director. The movie was a "Thomson Production", i.e. made through Flynn's company at Warner Bros. Two of the supporting cast were from the New York stage, Geraldine Brooks and Richard Basehart, and had just been put under contract by Warner Bros. (Basehart had given an acclaimed stage performance in The Hasty Heart.)
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP]  film differed from the earlier entries in the series in that 1) Daninsky is a college professor in this film, 2) the lycanthropy is caused by a Yeti's bite, and 3) Daninsky is married in this film. Naschy's friend Enrique Eguiluz started out to direct this film, but only managed to film Naschy's nightmare sequence near the beginning of the film. He left the project early and was replaced by Zabalza, whom Naschy said was an alcoholic and a very uncouth person. Due to the laziness of director Zabalza, this film wound up including a lot of stock footage from La Marca del Hombre Lobo (1968) to pad out its running time and a few carelessly mismatched werewolf scenes played by a stunt double he hired.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP]  Aaron Wolf is an American actor, writer and director best known for the feature documentary Restoring Tomorrow. He is the co-founder and President of Howling Wolf Productions based in Los Angeles, CA.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP] Dick Wolf  Richard Anthony Wolf (born December 20, 1946) is an American film and television producer, best known for his "Law & Order" franchise. Since 1990, the franchise has included six police/courtroom dramas and four international spinoffs. He is also creator and executive producer of the "Chicago" franchise, which since 2012 has included four Chicago-based dramas, and the creator and executive producer of the "FBI" franchise, which since 2018 has also become a franchise after spinning off two additional series.  Wolf has also written four books. The first, the non-fiction volume "Law & Order: Crime Scenes", is a companion to the "Law & Order" television series. "The Intercept", "The Execution", and "The Ultimatum", all of which are works of fiction, are volumes in a thriller series upon whose writings Wolf collaborates with the NYPD's detective Jeremy Fisk.  Wolf has won numerous awards, including an Emmy Award, being inducted into the Television Academy Hall of Fame, and receiving a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP] Teen Wolf (2011 TV series)  Teen Wolf is an American supernatural teen drama television series developed by Jeff Davis for MTV, loosely based on the 1985 film of the same name. Tyler Posey portrays a young werewolf who defends his California town from supernatural creatures and other threats.  The series premiered on June 5, 2011, and concluded on September 24, 2017, after six seasons. It received generally positive reviews from critics and won three Saturn Awards for Best Youth-Oriented Television Series. The series also received 13 Teen Choice Awards, nine for the performances of Posey, Dylan O'Brien, Tyler Hoechlin, Holland Roden, and Shelley Hennig, and four for Choice Summer TV Series. A film continuation, "", is scheduled to be released on Paramount+ in 2023.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP] The Wolf of Wall Street (2013 film)  The Wolf of Wall Street is a 2013 American epic biographical black comedy crime film directed by Martin Scorsese and written by Terence Winter, based on the 2007 memoir of the same name by Jordan Belfort. It recounts Belfort's perspective on his career as a stockbroker in New York City and how his firm, Stratton Oakmont, engaged in rampant corruption and fraud on Wall Street, which ultimately led to his downfall. Leonardo DiCaprio, who was also a producer of the film, stars as Belfort, with Jonah Hill as his business partner and friend, Donnie Azoff, Margot Robbie as his wife, Naomi Lapaglia, and Kyle Chandler as FBI agent Patrick Denham, who tries to take Belfort down.  Rights for Belfort's memoir were secured in 2007 by DiCaprio and Warner Bros. and with Scorsese set to direct, but content restrictions stalled production. The project was later greenlit under an independent production house Red Granite Pictures. Filming took place in late 2012 in New York City and was shot mostly on film stock.  The film premiered in New York City on December 17, 2013, and was released in the United States on December 25, 2013, by Paramount Pictures, and was the first major American film to be released exclusively through digital distribution. It was a major commercial success, grossing $406 million worldwide during its theatrical run, becoming Scorsese's highest-grossing film. The film was controversial for its morally ambiguous depiction of events and lack of sympathy for victims, as well as explicit sexual content, extreme profanity, depiction of hard drug use, and the use of animals during production. It set a Guinness World Record for the most instances of swearing in a film. The film's financing became implicated in the 1Malaysia Development Berhad corruption scandal, leading to Red Granite Pictures being investigated by the U.S. Department of Justice and Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission.  The film received positive reviews from critics (along with some moral censure) and appeared in several 'best of the year' lists. It was nominated for several awards, including five at the 86th Academy Awards ceremony: Best Picture, Best Director, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Actor (for DiCaprio) and Best Supporting Actor (for Hill). DiCaprio won Best Actor – Musical or Comedy at the 71st Golden Globe Awards, where the film was also nominated for Best Picture – Musical or Comedy.
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP] Dances with Wolves  Dances with Wolves is a 1990 American epic western film starring, directed, and produced by Kevin Costner in his feature directorial debut. It is a film adaptation of the 1988 novel "Dances with Wolves" by Michael Blake that tells the story of Union Army Lieutenant John J. Dunbar (Costner), who travels to the American frontier to find a military post, and who meets a group of Lakota.  Costner developed the film with an initial budget of $15 million. Much of the dialogue is spoken in Lakota with English subtitles. It was shot from July to November 1989 in South Dakota and Wyoming, and translated by Doris Leader Charge, of the Lakota Studies department at Sinte Gleska University.  The film earned favorable reviews from critics and audiences, who praised Costner's directing, the performances, screenplay, score, cinematography, and production values. It was a box office hit, grossing $424.2 million worldwide, making it the fourth-highest grossing film of 1990, and is the highest-grossing film for Orion Pictures. The film was nominated for 12 Academy Awards at the 63rd Academy Awards and won seven, including Best Picture, Best Director for Costner, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Film Editing, Best Cinematography, Best Original Score, and Best Sound Mixing. The film also won the Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama. It is one of only three Westerns to win the Oscar for Best Picture, the other two being "Cimarron" (1931) and "Unforgiven" (1992).  It is credited as a leading influence for the revitalization of the Western genre of filmmaking in Hollywood. In 2007, "Dances with Wolves" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the director of The Wolf? [SEP] Konrad Wolf  Konrad Wolf (20 October 1925 – 7 March 1982) was an East German film director. He was the son of writer, doctor and diplomat Friedrich Wolf, and the younger brother of Stasi spymaster Markus Wolf. "Koni" was his nickname.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP] The Rumperbutts (2015). Lead actors, producers, and composers. Starring alongside Josh Brener, Arian Moayed, and Vanessa Ray. Distributed by Mance Media. ; Two of Us (2004). Produced, directed, shot, and edited by Thadd Day. Released by Hooked on Sonics!
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP]  Mates or  Maten  is a 1999 Dutch TV film directed by Pieter Verhoeff.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP]  Mates was educated at Marlborough College, an independent school in the market town of Marlborough in Wiltshire. He left Marlborough at the age of 16 to take A-levels at Farnham College in Farnham in Surrey and then studied at the University of Leeds from which he graduated, in 1983, with a degree in International History and Politics. During that time he had spent his 1981 summer vacation working as a researcher for Republican Senator John Tower on the Senate Armed Services Committee.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP]  John Dingwall wrote the script and decided to produce it himself. He raised the money with the help of Rex Pilbeam, a former mayor of Rockhampton. Most of the money was raised in Queensland, including investment from the Queensland Film Corporation. Shooting took place on location in Emerald, Queensland and lasted six weeks.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP]  Mates by Irvine Sellars was a British fashion retail chain founded by Irvine Sellar. Mates started with one shop is Soho's Carnaby Street and grew to become "Britain’s second-biggest fashion chain" with 90 shops in 1981, when it was sold to a South African investor. Sellar claimed that Mates was the first retail chain to sell men's and women's clothing under the same roof, and that they had 3,000 employees.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP] Friends  Friends is an American television sitcom created by David Crane and Marta Kauffman, which aired on NBC from September 22, 1994, to May 6, 2004, lasting ten seasons. With an ensemble cast starring Jennifer Aniston, Courteney Cox, Lisa Kudrow, Matt LeBlanc, Matthew Perry and David Schwimmer, the show revolves around six friends in their 20s and 30s who live in Manhattan, New York City. The series was produced by Bright/Kauffman/Crane Productions, in association with Warner Bros. Television. The original executive producers were Kevin S. Bright, Kauffman, and Crane.  Kauffman and Crane began developing "Friends" under the working title "Insomnia Cafe" between November and December 1993. They presented the idea to Bright, and together they pitched a seven-page treatment of the show to NBC. After several script rewrites and changes, including title changes to "Six of One" and "Friends Like Us", the series was finally named "Friends".  Filming took place at Warner Bros. Studios in Burbank, California. The show ranked within the top ten of the final television season ratings; it ultimately reached the number-one spot in its eighth season. The series finale aired on May 6, 2004, and was watched by around 52.5 million American viewers, making it the fifth-most-watched series finale in television history and the most-watched television episode of the 2000s.  "Friends" received acclaim throughout its run, becoming one of the most popular television shows of all time. The series was nominated for 62 Primetime Emmy Awards, winning the Outstanding Comedy Series award in 2002 for its eighth season. The show ranked no. 21 on "TV Guide"s 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time, and no. 5 on "Empire" magazine's The 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time. In 1997, the episode "The One with the Prom Video" was ranked 100 on "TV Guide"s 100 Greatest Episodes of All-Time. In 2013, "Friends" ranked no. 24 on the Writers Guild of America's 101 Best Written TV Series of All Time, and no. 28 on "TV Guide"s 60 Best TV Series of All Time. The sitcom's cast members returned for a aired on HBO Max on May 27, 2021.
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP] Friends (2001 film)  Friends is a 2001 Indian Tamil-language drama film, directed by Siddique in his Tamil debut and produced by Appachan. It is the Tamil remake of Siddique's own 1999 Malayalam film of the same name. The film stars Vijay, Suriya and Ramesh Khanna as the friends, while Devayani, Vijayalakshmi, Abhinayashree, Sriman, Vadivelu, Charle, and Radha Ravi play supporting roles. The music was composed by Ilaiyaraaja, while Anandakuttan handled cinematography.  "Friends" released on 14 January 2001. It received positive reviews and became a commercial success. This film also marks the second collaboration of Vijay and Suriya after "Nerrukku Ner" (1997).
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP]
Who was the director of Mates? [SEP] Gary Halvorson  Gary S. Halvorson is an American director of television shows, series and film, best known for directing and producing the show, "Friends".
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP]  The Valley is a 2017 American drama film written and directed by Saila Kariat and starring Alyy Khan, Suchitra Pillai, Jake T. Austin, Samina Peerzada, Barry Corbin, Christa B. Allen, Agneeta Thacker and Salma Khan. The plot follows a distraught father as he searches for answers after his college-age daughter's suicide. The film released on March 2, 2018.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP]  Valley of Peace (Dolina miru) is a 1956 Yugoslavian (Slovenian) war film directed by France Štiglic. It was in competition at the 1957 Cannes Film Festival, where John Kitzmiller received the Best Actor award for his role as Sgt. Jim. The film was selected for screening as part of the Cannes Classics section at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP]  In a Valley of Violence is a 2016 American Western film written and directed by Ti West. Jason Blum serves as producer through his production company Blumhouse Productions. The film stars Ethan Hawke, Taissa Farmiga, James Ransone, Karen Gillan, and John Travolta. It had its world premiere at South by Southwest on March 12, 2016, and was released in a limited release and through video on demand on October 21, 2016, by Focus World. It was a commercial failure grossing only $61,797, but received critical praise for the screenplay, direction, and the performances.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP]  The Valley (الوادي; al-wadi) is a 2014 Lebanese drama film written and directed by Ghassan Salhab. It was selected to be screened in the Contemporary World Cinema section at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival and received its world premiere on 4 September 2014.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] The Heart of the Valley (1986)
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] Silicon Valley (TV series)  Silicon Valley is an American comedy television series created by Mike Judge, John Altschuler and Dave Krinsky. It premiered on HBO on April 6, 2014, and concluded on December 8, 2019, running for six seasons for a total of 53 episodes. Parodying the culture of the technology industry in Silicon Valley, the series focuses on Richard Hendricks (Thomas Middleditch), a programmer who founds a startup company called Pied Piper, and chronicles his struggles to maintain his company while facing competition from larger entities. Co-stars include T.J. Miller, Josh Brener, Martin Starr, Kumail Nanjiani, Zach Woods, Amanda Crew, Matt Ross, and Jimmy O. Yang.  The series received critical acclaim, with praise for its writing and humor. It was nominated for numerous accolades, including five consecutive Primetime Emmy Award nominations for Outstanding Comedy Series.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] Happy Valley (TV series)  Happy Valley is a British crime drama television series filmed and set in the Calder Valley, West Yorkshire, in Northern England. The series, starring Sarah Lancashire and Siobhan Finneran, is written and created by Sally Wainwright, and directed by Wainwright, Euros Lyn, and Tim Fywell. The first series debuted on BBC One on 29 April 2014, the second series debuted on 9 February 2016, and the third series will debut on 1 January 2023. In May 2015, "Happy Valley" won the BAFTA Award for Best Drama Series.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] P-Valley  P-Valley is an American drama television series created by Katori Hall. The series is an adaptation of Hall's play "Pussy Valley", and follows several people who work at a strip club in the Mississippi Delta. It stars Brandee Evans, Nicco Annan, J. Alphonse Nicholson, and Elarica Johnson. It premiered on Starz on July 12, 2020, and was renewed for a second season two weeks after its premiere. The second season premiered on June 3, 2022. In October 2022, the series was renewed for a third season.<ref name="S3Renewal"/>  "P-Valley" has received critical acclaim and garnered nominations from the GLAAD Media Awards, Independent Spirit Awards, TCA Awards, and the NAACP Image Awards.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] Tennessee Valley Authority  The Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) is a federally owned electric utility corporation in the United States. TVA's service area covers all of Tennessee, portions of Alabama, Mississippi, and Kentucky, and small areas of Georgia, North Carolina, and Virginia. While owned by the federal government, TVA receives no taxpayer funding and operates similarly to a private for-profit company. It is headquartered in Knoxville, Tennessee, and is the sixth largest power supplier and largest public utility in the country.   The TVA was created by Congress in 1933 as part of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. Its initial purpose was to provide navigation, flood control, electricity generation, fertilizer manufacturing, regional planning, and economic development to the Tennessee Valley, a region that had suffered from lack of infrastructure and poverty during the Great Depression, relative to the rest of the nation. TVA was envisioned both as a power supplier and a regional economic development agency that would work to help modernize the region's economy and society. Later it evolved primarily into an electric utility. It was the first large regional planning agency of the U.S. federal government and remains the largest.  Under the leadership of David E. Lilienthal, the TVA also became the global model for the United States' later efforts to help modernize agrarian societies in the developing world. Historically, the TVA has been documented as a success in its efforts to modernize the Tennessee Valley and helping to recruit new employment opportunities to the region. Despite its successes, historians have criticized its use of eminent domain; it resulted in the displacement of over 125,000 Tennessee Valley residents to build the agency's infrastructure projects.
Who was the director of The Valley? [SEP] Valley Girl (1983 film)  Valley Girl (also known as Bad Boyz ) is a 1983 American teen romantic comedy film directed by Martha Coolidge and starring Nicolas Cage, Deborah Foreman, Michelle Meyrink, Elizabeth Daily, Cameron Dye and Michael Bowen.  "Valley Girl" was released in the United States on April 29, 1983. The plot is based loosely on Shakespeare's "Romeo and Juliet."
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP]  Per amare Ofelia (internationally released as To Love Ophelia) is a 1974 Italian comedy film directed by Flavio Mogherini. It is the debut film of Renato Pozzetto, and for his performance he won a Silver Ribbon for Best New Actor.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP]  Adélia Sampaio (born 1944) is a Brazilian filmmaker, the first black woman to direct a film in Brazil, the 1984 feature Amor Maldito (Cursed Love).
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP] Improvviso, director (1979) ; Quale Sardegna?, director (1983) ;  Fotografando Patrizia, writer (1984) ; Altare per la madre, director (1986) ; Per odio per amore, writer (1991)
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP]  producer. Her debut as a director was in 1979, with the short film Denúncia Vazia. In 1984 she released her first feature, Amor Maldito, based on the real-life case of a trial of a lesbian woman accused of killing her partner, of which she was also a screenwriter (with José Louzeiro) and producer. Thus, she became the first black woman to direct a feature film in Brazil. In 1987 she directed the documentary Fugindo do Passado: Um Drink para Tetéia e História Banal, about the Brazilian military dictatorship. In 2018 she directed O mundo de dentro, shown at the São Paulo International Short Film Festival.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP]  Amelio "Memè" Perlini (8 December 1947 &ndash; 5 April 2017) was an Italian actor and film director. His directorial debut, Italian Postcards, was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1987 Cannes Film Festival. He directed Teatro La Maschera, of Rome, in his theatrical adaptation of Raymond Roussel's Locus Solus at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in New York City in April 1977. The production was co-presented by La MaMa and the International Theatre Institute, and billed as the First International Theater Festival. Perlini died in Rome on 5 April 2017, at the age of 69. He seems to have committed suicide by jumping from the fifth floor of his house.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP] To Love Ophelia  Per amare Ofelia (internationally released as To Love Ophelia) is a 1974 Italian comedy film directed by Flavio Mogherini.  It is the debut film of Renato Pozzetto, and for his performance he won a Silver Ribbon for Best New Actor.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP]
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP] Renato Pozzetto  Renato Pozzetto (born 14 July 1940) is an Italian actor, director, comedian, and singer.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP] Orchidea De Santis  Orchidea De Santis (born 20 December 1948, Bari) is an Italian television and film actress.
Who was the director of Per amare Ofelia? [SEP] Memè Perlini Amelio "Memè" Perlini (8 December 1947 – 5 April 2017) was an Italian actor and film director. His directorial debut, "Italian Postcards", was screened in the "Un Certain Regard" section at the 1987 Cannes Film Festival. He directed Teatro La Maschera, of Rome, in his theatrical adaptation of Raymond Roussel's "Locus Solus" at La MaMa Experimental Theatre Club in New York City in April 1977. The production was co-presented by La MaMa and the International Theatre Institute, and billed as the First International Theater Festival. Perlini died in Rome on 5 April 2017, at the age of 69.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]  A detective investigating the death of an aristocrat eventually deduces he was murdered by his secretary.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]  In 1921, the novel was made by Broadwest into a silent film directed by Walter West and starring Gregory Scott, Pauline Peters and Clive Brook.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]  The Loudwater Mystery is a 1921 British silent crime film directed by Walter West and starring Gregory Scott, Pauline Peters and Clive Brook. It was based on the 1920 novel The Loudwater Mystery by Edgar Jepson.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP] Gregory Scott as Hubert Manley ; Pauline Peters as Lady Loudwater ; Clive Brook as Lord Loudwater ; Cameron Carr as Inspector Flexen ; Charles Tilson-Chowne as Colonel Grey ; Arthur Walcott as Carrington ; Nan Heriot as Miss Truslove ; Charles Poulton as Roper
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]  The Loudwater Mystery is crime novel by the British writer Edgar Jepson which was first published in 1920. Police are called in to investigate the suspicious death of Lord Loudwater and eventually deduce he was murdered by his private secretary. Or maybe not.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP] The Loudwater Mystery (novel)  The Loudwater Mystery is crime novel by the British writer Edgar Jepson which was first published in 1920. Police are called in to investigate the suspicious death of Lord Loudwater and eventually deduce he was murdered by his private secretary. Or maybe not.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP] The Loudwater Mystery (film)  The Loudwater Mystery is a 1921 British silent crime film directed by Walter West and starring Gregory Scott, Pauline Peters and Clive Brook. It was based on the 1920 novel "The Loudwater Mystery" by Edgar Jepson.
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP] The Loudwater Mystery  The Loudwater Mystery may refer to:
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]
Who was the director of The Loudwater Mystery? [SEP]
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the series premiere of the 2009 reimagining of the 1983 miniseries V created by Kenneth Johnson. The episode's teleplay was written by Scott Peters, with story credit going to Johnson and Peters. Yves Simoneau directed the episode, which originally aired in the United States on ABC on November 3, 2009. The episode sees spaceships appear over 29 of the world's major cities. Though the alien "Visitors" claim to come in peace, it transpires that they have been infiltrating the planet for decades, and are planning on enslaving the human species. Parallels have been drawn between the Visitors and US Presidents George W. Bush and Barack Obama, though Peters and co-producer Jeffrey Bell refute that they were intentional. Bell feels that while the original series
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  The Pilot (also known as Danger in the Skies) is a 1980 American action-drama film by director and star Cliff Robertson and is based on the novel of the same name by Robert P. Davis.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  Pilots is a 2000 Indian Malayalam-language drama film written and directed by Rajiv Anchal and produced by Menaka under Revathy Kalamandhir. Starring Suresh Gopi, Sreenivasan, and Praveena.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  of season 4 of American television series, believed to be directed by Joseph L. Scanlan. ; Riviera, 1987 ABC-TV movie intended as pilot, directed by John Frankenheimer. ; MacGyver, "Pilot", directed by Jerrold Freedman, and "The Heist", director unknown (1985). ; Moonlight, TV movie and pilot for an unsold series (1982) (not to be confused with the later CBS vampire series), directed by Jackie Cooper and Rod Holcomb. ; The Owl, 1991 television film credited to director Tom Holland when originally broadcast. Holland approved of the 46-minute television cut but disliked the extended 84-minute home video cut and credited it to "Alan Smithee".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the period drama television series The Americans. It originally aired on FX in the United States on January 30, 2013. The episode was written by series creator Joe Weisberg and directed by Gavin O'Connor. In 1981, shortly after the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings (Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell) are undercover Soviet intelligence agents from the secretive Directorate S of the KGB sent to the U.S. 15 years ago to work deep cover in Washington, D.C. Their assumed identities are a married couple who run a travel agency, and even their own children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati) do not know their secret. Reviews for the episode were largely positive. Critics commented on the lead performances of Russell, Rhys, and Noah Emmerich. In the United States, the series premiere achieved a viewership of 3.22 million.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] David Nutter  David Nutter (born 1960) is an American television and film director and television producer. He is best known for directing pilot episodes for television. In 2015, he received a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Directing for a Drama Series, for his work on the HBO series "Game of Thrones".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Flight director (aeronautics)  In aviation, a flight director (FD) is a flight instrument that is overlaid on the attitude indicator that shows the pilot of an aircraft the attitude required to execute the desired flight path. Flight directors are mostly commonly used during approach and landing. They can be used with or without autopilot systems.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] The Pilot (Seinfeld)  "The Pilot" is the two-part season finale episode of season four of "Seinfeld", comprising the season's 23rd and 24th episodes (63rd and 64th episodes in the series). It first aired on May 20, 1993.  This two-part episode aired at an earlier time, 8:00 PM, to leave room for the two-hour finale of "Cheers", whose timeslot was subsequently claimed by "Seinfeld" at the start of the new fall season.   About 32 million people watched both parts of "The Pilot" when it initially aired. An additional 2 million watched the first part but not the second, and 3 million more watched the second part but not the first.
Who was the director of Pilot? [SEP] Howard Hughes  Howard Robard Hughes Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976) was an American business magnate, record-setting pilot, engineer, film producer, and philanthropist, known during his lifetime as one of the most influential and richest people in the world. He first became prominent as a film producer, and then as an important figure in the aviation industry. Later in life, he became known for his eccentric behavior and reclusive lifestyle—oddities that were caused in part by his worsening obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), chronic pain from a near-fatal plane crash, and increasing deafness.  As a film tycoon, Hughes gained fame in Hollywood beginning in the late 1920s, when he produced big-budget and often controversial films such as "The Racket" (1928), "Hell's Angels" (1930), and "Scarface" (1932). He later acquired the RKO Pictures film studio in 1948, recognized then as one of the Big Five studios of Hollywood's Golden Age, although the production company struggled under his control and ultimately ceased operations in 1957.  Through his interest in aviation and aerospace travel, Hughes formed the Hughes Aircraft Company in 1932, hiring numerous engineers, designers, and defense contractors.  During his final years, Hughes extended his financial empire to include several major businesses in Las Vegas, such as real estate, hotels, casinos, and media outlets. Known at the time as one of the most powerful men in the state of Nevada, he is largely credited with transforming Vegas into a more refined cosmopolitan city. After years of mental and physical decline, Hughes died of kidney failure in 1976. His legacy is maintained through the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Howard Hughes Corporation.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP]  Hakeem Khaaliq (also Hakeem Abdul-Khaaliq) is an American cinematographer, television producer, film director, photographer, multi-media activist, graphic design artist, and. Before his career in film and television he worked as a music producer, music publisher, music supervisor and radio personality. In 1995 Khaaliq founded Radio Bums and in 2010 he co-founded Nation19 magazine / APDTA with longtime partner Queen Muhammad Ali.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP]  It looks like he is going to make up with Tiana but she leaves him again after they sleep together. Hakeem is given an opportunity to act in a film alongside well known actress, Haven Quinn (Cassie Ventura). Unfortunately for Hakeem, the director is racist and ends up firing him after they have an argument. Haven, who was initially hostile to Hakeem, is impressed by him standing up to the director and makes it clear she likes him. Hakeem invites her to an Empire event and they kiss in front of Tiana. Hakeem and Blake fall out when Hakeem learns that Blake's father is a racist and a picture
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP]  Flame is a controversial 1996 war film directed by Ingrid Sinclair, produced by Joel Phiri and Simon Bright, and stars Marian Kunonga and Ulla Mahaka. It was the first Zimbabwean film, since independence, to be set in the Rhodesian Bush War. It served as a tribute to the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army's many female guerrillas.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP]  The Flame of New Orleans is a 1941 comedy film directed by René Clair and starring Marlene Dietrich and Bruce Cabot in his first comedy role. The supporting cast features Roland Young, Andy Devine and Franklin Pangborn. It was the last of three films Dietrich made with producer Joe Pasternak who called it "in many ways, our most interesting." The movie was nominated for an Oscar for Best Art Direction by Martin Obzina, Jack Otterson and Russell A. Gausman.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP]  despairing of love) and her own part expanded. Film producer Victor Saville threatened to resign if the changes were made, and Spencer Tracy supported him, which led to the changes being rejected. Nonetheless, the script still had numerous problems, and Stewart refused to recognize these shortcomings. In late summer 1942, Cukor brought in Zoë Akins, one of his favorite playwrights and screenwriters, to help with the script. Victor Saville expressed concern that Stewart was basing more and more of the script on William Randolph Hearst, one of Louis B. Mayer's best friends, and that this might jeopardize the success of the picture. As script work continued, casting
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP] List of Moesha episodes  The following is a list of episodes for the UPN comedy-drama series "Moesha". The series premiered on January 23, 1996, and aired a total of 127 episodes during its six-season run. "Moesha's" final episode aired on May 14, 2001. The pilot episode was filmed in late April 1995, while filming for the first season began in October 1995.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP] Leonard Jeffries  Leonard Jeffries Jr. (born January 19, 1937) is former departmental chair of Black Studies at the City College of New York, part of the City University of New York (CUNY). Jeffries is a political scientist, historian, educator, master-teacher/administrator and Pan-Africanist. He was born and raised in Newark, New Jersey, where he first developed his leadership skills and Pan-African consciousness. He is the uncle of U.S. Representative Hakeem Jeffries.   Known for his Pan-African Afrocentrist views that the role of African people in history and the accomplishments of African Americans are far more important than commonly held, Jeffries has urged that public school syllabi be made less Eurocentric. He is a founding director and a former vice president and president of the Association for the Study of Classical African Civilizations (ASCAC).  Jeffries's claims that Jewish businessmen financed the Atlantic slave trade and used the movie industry to hurt black people, and that whites are "ice people" while Africans are "sun people", received national publicity in the early 1990s. Jeffries was discharged from his position as chair of CUNY's Black Studies Department, leading to a long legal battle that ended with the courts affirming the college's right to remove him from the position due to his incendiary remarks.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP] Reagan Gomez-Preston  Reagan Amyre Gomez-Preston (born April 24, 1980) is an American television, film and voice actress. She is known for her roles as Zaria Peterson on The WB sitcom "The Parent 'Hood" (1995–1999) and Roberta Tubbs on the FOX animated comedy "The Cleveland Show" (2009–2013). She has also reprised the role of Roberta Tubbs in occasional "Family Guy" appearances. Gomez-Preston also starred in the short-lived UPN sitcom, "Love, Inc." in the 2005–2006 season as Francine.
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP] Darius McCrary  Darius Creston McCrary (born May 1, 1976) is an American actor, rapper, singer and producer. McCrary is known for his role as Edward "Eddie" Winslow, the oldest child of Carl and Harriette Winslow on the ABC/CBS television sitcom "Family Matters", which ran from 1989–1998.  He also played Scam in the 1987 comedy film "Big Shots", which was his film debut. He provided the voice of Jazz in the 2007 "Transformers" reboot. From December 2009 to October 2011, he portrayed photographer Malcolm Winters on the CBS daytime drama "The Young and the Restless".
Who was the director of Hakeem's New Flame? [SEP] Akim Aliu  Akim Aliu (born April 24, 1989) is a Nigeria-born Canadian-Ukrainian former professional ice hockey player. He last played for HC Litvínov in the Czech Extraliga (ELH). Aliu was a second round selection of the Chicago Blackhawks, 56th overall, in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft and has played for several AHL and ECHL teams in both the Blackhawks and Atlanta Thrashers/Winnipeg Jets organizations before a trade to the Calgary Flames. Aliu made his NHL debut on April 5, 2012.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival. Its theatrical premiere was on June 6, 2011 in Los Angeles.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us features an original score by Omar Fadel, as well as licensed tracks from, Fredwreck, MC Rai, and Tom Morello's Street Sweeper Social Club.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Just Like Us is a 2010 documentary about a comedy tour of international comedians throughout the middle east. Directed by Egyptian-American actor/comedian, Ahmed Ahmed, the film premiered at the 2010 Tribeca Film Festival.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] Ahmed Ahmed ; Whitney Cummings ; Omid Djalili ; Erik Griffin ; Maz Jobrani ; Tom Papa ; Ted Alexandro ; Sebastian Maniscalco ; Angelo Tsarouchas ; Tommy Davidson
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP]  Like Me is a 2017 American film written and directed by Robert Mockler. The film stars Addison Timlin as a loner on a crime spree that she broadcasts on social media. The film had its world premiere at the South by Southwest Film Festival on March 10, 2017. It holds a 69% approval rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 29 reviews, with an average rating of 6.6/10.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] And Just Like That...  And Just Like That... is an American comedy-drama streaming television series developed by Michael Patrick King for HBO Max. It is a revival and a sequel of the HBO television series "Sex and the City" created by Darren Star, which is based on Candace Bushnell's newspaper column and 1996 book anthology of the same name.  Development for the series began in December 2020, following the cancellation of a third film adaptation. It was given a straight-to-series order in January 2021 by HBO Max. Casting announcements were made throughout 2021 and filming started in July 2021 in New York City.  "And Just Like That..." premiered on HBO Max on December 9, 2021, with mixed reviews. The season finale was released on February 3, 2022. Originally billed as a miniseries, the series was renewed for a second season in March 2022. Section::::Overview. Set 11 years after the events of the 2010 film "Sex and the City 2", from their friendship in their 30s to a more complicated reality of life and friendship in their 50s, the women of "Sex and the City" make their transition.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] People Just Like Us  People Just Like Us is the third live praise and worship album of contemporary worship music by Hillsong Church.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] Spies Like Us  Spies Like Us is a 1985 American spy comedy film directed by John Landis, and starring Chevy Chase, Dan Aykroyd, Steve Forrest and Donna Dixon. The film presents the comic adventures of two novice intelligence agents sent to the Soviet Union. Originally written by Aykroyd and Dave Thomas to star Aykroyd and John Belushi at Universal, the script went into turnaround and was later picked up by Warner Bros. with Aykroyd and Chase starring.  Partly filmed on location near Sognefjord in Norway (as Russia) and the Sahara (as Pakistan), the film is an homage to the famous Bob Hope and Bing Crosby "Road to..." film series. Hope himself cameos in one scene. Other cameos include directors Terry Gilliam, Sam Raimi, Costa-Gavras, Martin Brest, Frank Oz, and Joel Coen, musician B.B. King and visual effects pioneer Ray Harryhausen. The film was negatively received by critics, but was a box office success and went on to become a cult classic.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] Like a Prayer (song)  "Like a Prayer" is a song by American singer Madonna from her 1989 fourth studio album of the same name. Sire Records released it as the album's lead single on March 3, 1989. Written and produced by Madonna and Patrick Leonard, the song heralded an artistic and personal approach to songwriting for Madonna, who believed that she needed to cater more to her adult audience. Thematically, "Like a Prayer" speaks about a passionate young girl in love with God, who becomes the only male figure in her life.  "Like a Prayer" is a pop rock song and incorporates gospel music. It features background vocals from a choir and also a rock guitar. The lyrics contain liturgical words, but they have been interpreted by some people to have dual meanings of sexual innuendo and religion. "Like a Prayer" was acclaimed by music critics and was a commercial success worldwide. In the United States, it was Madonna's seventh number-one single on the "Billboard" Hot 100, where it stayed for three consecutive weeks and topped the record charts in many other countries, including Australia, Canada, Spain, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. "Rolling Stone" listed "Like a Prayer" among "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time".  The music video for "Like a Prayer", directed by Mary Lambert, portrays Madonna witnessing a young white woman being killed by a group of white men. While a black man is arrested for the murder, Madonna hides in a church for safety, seeking strength to go forth as a witness. The video depicts a church and Catholic symbols such as stigmata. It also features the Ku Klux Klan's burning crosses and a dream about kissing a black saint. The Vatican condemned the video, while family and religious groups protested against its broadcast. They boycotted products by soft drink manufacturer Pepsi, who had used the song in their commercial. The company canceled their sponsorship contract with Madonna, but allowed her to retain the $5 million fee.  "Like a Prayer" has been featured on five of Madonna's concert tours, most recently on the Madame X Tour in 2019–20. It has been covered by numerous artists. The song is noted for the mayhem surrounding the music video and the various interpretations of its content, leading to discussions among music and film scholars. Along with the parent album, the song has been considered a turning point in Madonna's career, with critics starting to acknowledge her as an artist rather than a mere pop star.
Who was the director of Just Like Us? [SEP] Just like Heaven (film)  Just Like Heaven is a 2005 American romantic comedy fantasy film directed by Mark Waters, starring Reese Witherspoon, Mark Ruffalo, and Jon Heder. It is based on the 1999 French novel "If Only It Were True" ("Et si c'était vrai...") by Marc Levy.  Steven Spielberg obtained the rights to produce the film from the book. The film was released in the United States on September 16, 2005. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $102 million.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP]  A Helpful Sisterhood is a 1914 American film directed by Van Dyke Brooke.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP]  and supportive to the leadership of the church. One of her contributions was to divide the women's fellowship in the local congregations into two groups: The Christian Women's Council for the middle aged and senior women, and the Young Women's Christian Council (YWCC) for the younger women. Mother Willie Mae Rivers (1997–2017) of Goose Creek, South Carolina, succeeded Mother Crouch. She is also the Jurisdictional Supervisor of Women for the South Carolina Jurisdiction. She served as chairperson of the board of supervisors, member, Executive Board, member, Screening Committee, member, Program Committee General Church, coordinator, Leadership Conference, International Marshall, secretary, and Assistant General Supervisor for the
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] Rebecca Holden ; Chuck Wagner ; Lynn-Holly Johnson ; Barbara Patrick ; Robert Dryer ; Henry Strzalkowski ; David Light ; Jim Moss ; Anthony East ; Tom McNeeley
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP]  as a scholar and thought leader working within academia. With Ross's exit, SisterSong shifted from the Management Circle model to a conventional Board of Directors model and named Monica Raye Simpson, then the organization's Development Director, as Interim Executive Director in 2012 and Executive Director in 2013. Monica Simpson had previously been the first staff person of color at Charlotte's Lesbian & Gay Community Center and won awards for organizing the first Black Gay Pride in the Bible Belt. She remains SisterSong's Executive Director today. In 2014, SisterSong selected four strategic priority areas: In 2016, SisterSong opened a second office in North Carolina focused on building a state-based reproductive justice movement there.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP]  Simon served as executive director of the YWCA in Fort Wayne in the 1970s. In the late 1990s, she was the executive director of the League of American Bicyclists.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] A Helpful Sisterhood  A Helpful Sisterhood is a 1914 American film directed by Van Dyke Brooke.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] Order of Our Lady of the Good Death  The Sisterhood of Our Lady of the Good Death (Irmandade da Nossa Senhora da Boa Morte) is a small Afro-Catholic religious group in the state of Bahia, Brazil.  Founded in the early 19th century as a Church-sponsored beneficent Sisterhood for female African slaves and former slaves, it became one of the oldest and most respected worship groups for Candomblé, the major African-based religion in Brazil. Presently reduced to about thirty members (from 200 or so at its height), most of them over fifty, it still attracts worshipers every year, especially at its August festival.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] P.E.O. Sisterhood  The P.E.O. Sisterhood (Philanthropic Educational Organization) is a U.S.-based international women's organization of about 230,000 members, with a primary focus on providing educational opportunities for female students worldwide. The Sisterhood is headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa, with chapters throughout the United States and Canada. Among other projects, it owns and supports Cottey College, an independent college for women in Nevada, Missouri.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] Van Dyke Brooke  Van Dyke Brooke, "né" Stewart McKerrow (22 June 1859–17 September 1921) was an early American actor, screenwriter and film director, whose works include "" (1908) and "Lights of New York" (1916). He worked as a stage actor for many years before going to work in the film industry in 1909. He became an actor, writer and director for Vitagraph where he found fame and financial reward almost from the outset. He wrote and directed many of the screenplays for the films in which he acted.<ref name=grau/> He worked for the studio until 1916 when he was laid off with other ageing actors. He continued to work as an actor until his death in 1921.  He directed many films starring Norma Talmadge.
Who was the director of A Helpful Sisterhood? [SEP] Bene Gesserit  The Bene Gesserit () refers to a key social, religious, and political force in Frank Herbert's fictional "Dune" universe. The group is an exclusive sisterhood whose members train their bodies and minds through years of physical and mental conditioning to obtain superhuman powers and abilities that seem magical to outsiders. Members who have acquired the breadth of Bene Gesserit abilities are called Reverend Mothers.  The Bene Gesserit are focused on acquiring more power and influence to direct humanity on an enlightened path. Sometimes called "witches" due to their secretive nature and misunderstood powers, the Bene Gesserit are loyal only to themselves and their collective goals. However, to attain their goals and avoid outside interference, they often screen themselves with the illusion of being loyal to other groups or individuals. Their every move is calculated toward a result. As the skills of a Bene Gesserit are as desirable as an alliance with the Sisterhood itself, they are able to charge a fee to school the women from Great Houses, and install some of their initiates as wives and concubines to their advantage.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP]  Sean D. Carr (born January 21, 1969) is the Executive Director of Batten Institute for Entrepreneurship & Innovation at the University of Virginia. He is also co-author, along with Robert F. Bruner, of the book The Panic of 1907: Lessons Learned from the Market's Perfect Storm. The book focuses on the early 20th Century financial disaster known as the Panic of 1907.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP]  Panic in the City is a 1968 American science fiction thriller film directed by Eddie Davis and written by Eddie Davis and Charles E. Savage. The film is about nuclear weapons, set and filmed on location in Los Angeles in 1967. The film stars Howard Duff, Linda Cristal, Stephen McNally, Nehemiah Persoff, Anne Jeffreys, Oscar Beregi Jr. and Gregory Morton. The film was released in October 1968.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP]  In 1950 he directed Panic in the Streets, starring Richard Widmark, in a thriller shot on the streets of New Orleans. In that film, Kazan experimented with a documentary style of cinematography, which succeeded in "energizing" the action scenes. He won the Venice Film Festival International Award as director, and the film also won two Academy Awards. Kazan had requested that Zero Mostel also act in the film, despite Mostel being "blacklisted" as a result of HCUA testimony a few years earlier. Kazan writes of his decision: "Each director has a favorite in his cast, ... my favorite this time was Zero
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] David Fincher – director ; David Koepp – screenwriter, producer ; Ceán Chaffin – producer ; Judy Hofflund – producer ; Gavin Polone – producer ; Howard Shore – composer ; Conrad W. Hall – cinematographer ; Darius Khondji – cinematographer ; James Haygood – editor ; Angus Wall – editor ; Arthur Max – production designer ; Keith Neely – art director ; James E. Tocci – art director ; Jon Danniells – set decorator ; Garrett Lewis – set decorator ; Michael Kaplan – costume designer   Panic Room was directed by David Fincher based on a screenplay written by David Koepp. The film, produced at Columbia Pictures, was Fincher's fifth feature film, following Fight Club (1999). Koepp was also a producer for Panic Room, and he was joined by Judy Hofflund and Gavin Polone, with
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP]  Panic in Year Zero! (a.k.a. End of the World) is a 1962 American black-and-white survival science fiction film from American International Pictures, produced by Arnold Houghland and Lou Rusoff, directed by Ray Milland, who also stars with Jean Hagen, Frankie Avalon, Mary Mitchel, and Joan Freeman. The original music score was composed by Les Baxter. The screenplay was written by John Morton and Jay Simms. The film was released by AIP in 1962 as a double feature with Tales of Terror.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] Panic Room  Panic Room is a 2002 American thriller film directed by David Fincher. The film stars Jodie Foster and Kristen Stewart as a mother and daughter whose new home is invaded by burglars, played by Forest Whitaker, Jared Leto, and Dwight Yoakam. The script was written by David Koepp, whose screenplay was inspired by news coverage in 2000 about panic rooms.  The film was Fincher's fifth feature film, following "Fight Club" (1999). Fincher and Koepp brought together a crew of people with whom each had worked before. The house and its panic room were built on a Raleigh Studios lot. Nicole Kidman was originally cast as the mother, but she left after aggravating a previous injury. Her departure threatened the completion of the film, but Foster quickly replaced Kidman. The filmmakers used computer-generated imagery to create the illusion of the film camera moving through the house's rooms. Foster became pregnant during the shooting schedule, so filming was suspended until after she gave birth. The film's production cost .  The film was commercially released in the United States and Canada on , 2002. The film grossed on its opening weekend. In the United States and Canada, it grossed . In other territories, it grossed for a worldwide total of . The film was well-received by critics, who praised Foster's performance and the film's suspense. "Panic Room" has been assessed for its portrayal of childhood and feminism, the elements of video surveillance and diabetes, and its thematic approach to mortality.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] The Panic in Needle Park  The Panic in Needle Park is a 1971 American drama film directed by Jerry Schatzberg and starring Al Pacino (in his first lead role) and Kitty Winn. The screenplay was written by Joan Didion and John Gregory Dunne, adapted from the 1966 novel by James Mills.  The film portrays life among a group of heroin addicts who hang out in "Needle Park" (a nickname at that time for Sherman Square on Manhattan's Upper West Side near 72nd Street and Broadway). The film is a love story between Bobby (Pacino), a young addict and small-time hustler, and Helen (Kitty Winn), a restless woman who finds Bobby charismatic. She becomes an addict, and life goes downhill for them both as their addictions worsen, eventually leading to a series of betrayals.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] Panic (TV series)  Panic is an American teen drama streaming television series created and written by Lauren Oliver based on her 2014 novel of the same name. The series stars Olivia Welch, Mike Faist, and Jessica Sula. The series premiered on Amazon Prime Video on May 28, 2021. In August 2021, the series was canceled after one season.<ref name="Cancellation"/>
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] Full Metal Panic!  Individual chapters are published on "Monthly Dragon Magazine", followed by a paperback compilation released by Fujimi Shobo's Fujimi Fantasia Bunko. The novels are split between stories focusing on Sousuke's mission as a soldier of Mithril and comedic side stories centered on his life at Jindai High School.  The series has been adapted into different media; including four anime television series: "Full Metal Panic!" by Gonzo in 2002, "Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu" and "Full Metal Panic! The Second Raid" by Kyoto Animation in 2003 and 2005 respectively. An OVA was also released in 2006; and the newest television series, "Full Metal Panic! Invisible Victory" by Xebec, premiered in April 2018. The series also had several different manga series.  Tokyopop licensed the novels for English-language publication in North America and released parts of the series, while ADV Films licensed and dubbed the first season and the spin-off. The second season was licensed by Kadokawa Pictures USA with ADV Films producing the dub yet again. Mandalay Pictures acquired the film rights to the series in 2009. At Anime USA 2009, Funimation announced that it had acquired the rights to the first and second series of "Full Metal Panic!" and both were re-released and remastered on DVD and Blu-ray in 2010. The series began airing in North America on November 22, 2010, on the Funimation Channel. The "Fumoffu" series made its North American television debut on the Funimation Channel on November 15, 2010.  A spin-off to the light-novel series called "Full Metal Panic! Another" was serialized between 2011 and 2016. "Another" received a manga adaptation split in two series, the second of which is still being published. The light novels have sold 11 million copies making it twelfth best-selling light novel.
Who was the director of Panic? [SEP] Yasuhiro Takemoto
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  A list of all of the Victory offices with their accompanying field director.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Victory Fund from his position as the director of the Gay & Lesbian Leadership Council at the Democratic National Committee from to rebuild the nearly-bankrupt organization. He is credited by Tammy Baldwin with helping grow the visibility and size of the organization. He stepped down in 2003. Former Victory Fund board member Chuck Wolfe was named executive director in 2003. Under his leadership, the organization's budgets grew exponentially. In 2008, 80 of the group's 111 endorsed candidates won their elections. In 2009, Victory Fund donated $40000 to the election of Annise Parker as mayor of Houston. In electing an out lesbian as its chief
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Chay Yew was named Artistic Director in 2011. In February 2012, Yew granted the original Playwrights Ensemble 'alumni' status and introduced a new ensemble of playwrights. Yew announced his departure from Victory Gardens in December 2019. On May 5, 2020, then-executive director Erica Daniels was named Victory Gardens' executive artistic director. The Playwrights Ensemble announced their collective resignation in protest on May 22, citing a lack of transparency in Victory Gardens' search for a new Artistic Director. On June 8, in response to the resulting community backlash and the ongoing George Floyd protests, Daniels stepped down from her positions as Executive Director and Executive Artistic Director. The board of directors' chairman Steve Miller also stepped down from his position, but remained on the board. The current Acting Managing Director of Victory Gardens is Roxanna Conner, and the current Board Chair is Charles E. Harris, II.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Victory Pictures Corporation was a California-based film production and distribution company that operated from 1935–39. It was owned by Sam Katzman and specialised in making low-budget movies, predominantly Westerns. It made two serials and 30 films, including some of the Western series of Bob Steele and Tim McCoy. It also made eight films based on the works of Peter B. Kyne. The studio plant caught fire in 1937, causing $50,000 worth of damage.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP]  Twenty years later, Cromwell filmed his screen version, Victory (1940), for Paramount with Fredrick March as the recluse Hendrik Heyst and Betty Field as Alma, and Cedric Hardwicke as the pathological Mr. Jones (also serving as narrator). Cromwell’s professional relationship with March had commenced on Broadway in 1925 when he directed March in Kay Horton’s Harvest. Cromwell was dissatisfied with some of the casting in Victory, particularly with that of British actor Cedric Hardwicke : "Then [there was] Mr. Hardwicke, whom I knew—or thought I knew—pretty well. I don’t know what the hell happened to him. He just conked out on me entirely, and I felt he gave no indication what the part
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Victory Gardens Theater  Victory Gardens Theater is a theater company in Chicago, Illinois dedicated to the development and production of new plays and playwrights. The theater company was founded in 1974 when eight Chicago artists, Cecil O'Neal, Warren Casey, Stuart Gordon, Cordis Heard, Roberta Maguire, Mac McGuinnes, June Pyskaček, and David Rasche each fronted $1,000 to start a company outside the Chicago Loop and Gordon donated the light board of his Organic Theater Company. The theater's first production, "The Velvet Rose", by Stacy Myatt premiered on October 9, 1974.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] LGBTQ Victory Fund  The LGBTQ Victory Fund (formerly the Gay & Lesbian Victory Fund), commonly shortened to Victory Fund, is an American political action committee dedicated to increasing the number of openly LGBTQ public officials in the United States. Victory Fund is the largest LGBTQ political action committee in the United States and one of the nation’s largest non-connected PACs.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Victory (2009 film)  Victory is a 2009 Indian cricket-based sports film starring Harman Baweja, Amrita Rao and Anupam Kher. It is Harman Baweja's second release after his debut film "Love Story 2050", which performed very badly at the box office. The movie was filmed in Australia and India. "Victory" tells the story of a struggling cricketer who defies all odds to realise an almost impossible dream.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Escape to Victory  Escape to Victory (stylized as Victory) is a 1981 American-British-Italian sports war film directed by John Huston and starring Sylvester Stallone, Michael Caine, Max von Sydow and Pelé. The film is about Allied prisoners of war who are interned in a German prison camp during the Second World War who play an exhibition match of football against a German team.  The film received great attention upon its theatrical release, as it also starred professional footballers Bobby Moore, Osvaldo Ardiles, Kazimierz Deyna, Paul Van Himst, Mike Summerbee, Hallvar Thoresen, Werner Roth and Pelé. Numerous Ipswich Town players were also in the film, including John Wark, Russell Osman, Laurie Sivell, Robin Turner and Kevin O'Callaghan. Other Ipswich Town players stood in for actors in the football scenes – Kevin Beattie for Michael Caine, and Paul Cooper for Sylvester Stallone. Yabo Yablonsky wrote the script and the film was entered into the 12th Moscow International Film Festival.
Who was the director of Victory? [SEP] Mobile Suit Victory Gundam  , is a 1993 Japanese science fiction anime television series. It consists of 51 episodes, and was directed by Gundam creator Yoshiyuki Tomino. The series was first broadcast on TV Asahi (and its ANN stations). It is the fourth TV anime installment in the "Gundam" franchise, first series in the franchise released in Japan's Heisei period, and the final full series to be set in the Universal Century calendar.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]  Not So Long Ago is a 1925 American silent film produced by Jesse Lasky and Adolph Zukor and distributed by Paramount. It was directed by Sidney Olcott with Betty Bronson and Ricardo Cortez in the leading roles. This is a lost film.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]  in Warsaw, Poland, in May 2013; and the Pasadena International Film & New Media Festival in February 2014.  In May 2014, the Somaly Mam Foundation released a statement that Somaly had resigned from her leadership of the organization as a result of investigations regarding allegations about her personal history. The following month, Bilheimer released a statement in response, saying that he had re-edited the film in order to remove the scenes depicting Somaly and that the new version would be available shortly. Bilheimer wrote that "the storytelling in the Cambodia segment of Not My Life remains intact and is still very moving, with an even sharper focus, now,
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]  Farr began directing theatre at University and won the Guardian Student Drama Award at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in 1991 with Slight Possession starring Rachel Weisz. His professional directorial debut came at The Gate Theatre, Notting Hill in 1995 (age25) under Stephen Daldry. He was also Artistic Director of Bristol Old Vic from 2002 to 2005 and Lyric Hammersmith from 2005 to 2009. In 2009 he joined the Royal Shakespeare Company as Associate Director. He wrote regularly for Spooks for the BBC and is a film writer having co-written the Joe Wright film Hanna, released in 2011. Farr's adaptation of John le Carré's novel The Night Manager was aired in 2016 on BBC1.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]  Eddie Schmidt (born August 29, 1970) is an American director, showrunner, producer, writer, commentator and satirist. He is perhaps best known for producing several feature documentaries that premiered at the Sundance Film Festival, including Valentine Road (2013), This Film Is Not Yet Rated (2006), and Twist Of Faith (2005), and for directing and showrunning television projects including Ugly Delicious (2018), Chelsea Does (2016), and The Case of: JonBenet Ramsey (2016). From 2009-2011, he served as President of the IDA (International Documentary Association), and was its interim Executive Director for the latter half of 2008.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]  Early in Byard's career she served as the director of development for the Center for Investigative Reporting. In 1996 she became the editor, writer, and co-producer of the film Out of the Past, which was published in 1997. It premiered at the Sundance Film Festival in 1998, where it won the Audience Award for Best Documentary. While working on the film she met Kevin Jennings, the founder and then executive director of GLSEN. Byard joined GLSEN as deputy executive director in 2001, where she led the development of programs including the national Think B4 You Speak anti-bullying program, LGBT ad campaigns, and GLSEN's research and student organization efforts. In 2008 she became the organization's executive director. Byard announced on January 13, 2021 that she would be stepping down as executive director on March 1, 2021. Byard also serves on the board of trustees for America's Promise Alliance, Sodexo's diversity advisory board, the National Collaboration for Youth steering committee, and the National Action Alliance for Suicide Prevention LGBT suicide task force. She also served on Michael Bloomberg's commission for runaway and homeless children, and was the chair of the board of directors for Arts Engine.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP] Not So Long Ago  Not So Long Ago is a 1925 American silent drama film produced by Jesse Lasky and Adolph Zukor and distributed by Paramount. It was directed by Sidney Olcott with Betty Bronson and Ricardo Cortez in the leading roles.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP] So Long Ago the Garden  So Long Ago the Garden is an album recorded by Larry Norman, released in 1973. It is the second album in what came to be known as his "trilogy," which began with the album "Only Visiting This Planet" and concluded with "In Another Land". "So Long Ago the Garden" was controversial because Norman's previously blatant Christian beliefs were more veiled on this album. In the song "Shot Down", on the album "In Another Land", Norman responded to accusations by fellow Christians that he had abandoned his faith in search of fame and fortune.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP] Star Wars opening crawl  The "Star Wars" opening crawl is a signature device of the opening sequences of every numbered film of the "Star Wars" series, an American epic space opera franchise created by George Lucas. Within a black sky background featuring a smattering of stars, the crawl is preceded both by the opening static blue text, "A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away..." and by the "Star Wars" logo which recedes toward a central point on the screen before disappearing. The crawl text, which describes the backstory and context of the film, then recedes toward a higher point in relation to the screen and with an apparent effect of disappearing in the distance. The visuals are accompanied by the "Main Title Theme", composed by John Williams.  This sequence has featured at the beginning of each of the main "Star Wars" saga theatrical films produced by Lucasfilm. Although it has retained the same basic elements, the opening crawl has significantly evolved throughout the series. It is one of the most immediately recognizable elements of the franchise and has been frequently parodied.  The opening crawl was not used in the animated film or in the "Star Wars" "Anthology" films, "Rogue One" and , although all three films begin with the opening text. Additionally, the opening sequence of "Solo" continues with a short backstory presented in the same style as the opening text, while "The Clone Wars" uses a narrator to provide exposition in a similar style to a newsreel.
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP]
Who was the director of Not So Long Ago? [SEP] Once upon a time  "Once upon a time" is a stock phrase used to introduce a narrative of past events, typically in fairy tales and folk tales. It has been used in some form since at least 1380 (according to the "Oxford English Dictionary") in storytelling in the English language and has started many narratives since 1600. These stories sometimes end with "and they all lived happily ever after", or, originally, "happily until their deaths".  The phrase is common in fairy tales for younger children. It was used in the original translations of the stories of Charles Perrault as a translation for the French "", of Hans Christian Andersen as a translation for the Danish "", (literally "there was once"), the Brothers Grimm as a translation for the German "" (literally "it was once") and Joseph Jacobs in English translations and fairy tales.  The phrase is also used in retellings of myths, fables and folklore.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]  Kluczewsko is a village in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Kluczewsko. It lies approximately 9 km north of Włoszczowa and 50 km west of the regional capital Kielce. The village has a population of 806.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]  Kluczbork (Kreuzburg O.S., ) is a town in southern Poland with 23,554 inhabitants (2019), situated in the Opole Voivodeship. It is the capital of Kluczbork County and an important railroad junction. In Kluczbork the major rail line from Katowice splits into two directions – westwards to Wrocław and northwards to Poznań. It is also connected with Fosowskie.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]  Kluczewko is a part of the Szczecin City, Poland situated on the right bank of Oder river, south-east of the Szczecin Old Town, and south-west of Szczecin-Dąbie.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]  Kluczewo is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Płońsk, within Płońsk County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]  Ciemiętniki is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Kluczewsko, within Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km north-west of Kluczewsko, 13 km north-west of Włoszczowa, and 54 km west of the regional capital Kielce.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP] Kluczewsko  Kluczewsko is a village in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Kluczewsko. It lies approximately north of Włoszczowa and west of the regional capital Kielce.  The village has a population of 806.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP] Gmina Kluczewsko  Gmina Kluczewsko is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. Its seat is the village of Kluczewsko, which lies approximately north of Włoszczowa and west of the regional capital Kielce.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 5,191.  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Przedbórz Landscape Park.
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]
What is Kluczewsko the capital of? [SEP]
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]  The religious capital or ecclesiastical capital of a region is a place considered pre-eminent by the adherents of a particular religion within that region. This is most often significant for the region's predominant religion or state religion, if any. The administrative headquarters of an organised religion may be centralised in a particular location; for example, Rome for the Catholic Church, or Salt Lake City for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In an episcopal church, the site of the cathedral of the primate bishop of an area may be considered its ecclesiastical capital; for example, Armagh is the seat of the primate of All Ireland in both the Catholic church and the Anglican church. Other places may be considered religious capitals by being centres of learning, such as Qom for Shia Islam in Iran; or places of pilgrimage, such as Jerusalem for the Abrahamic religions and Varanasi for Hinduism.
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]  In Israel/Palestine/Jordan, then known as Judea (Roman province) of the Roman Empire, Jesus Christ of Nazareth travels around the country with his disciples preaching to the people about God and salvation of their souls. He claims to be the son of God and the Messiah. He is arrested by the Romans and crucified. He rises from the dead after three days.
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]  to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ (Romans 1:1-7, ESV)."According to the Apostle Paul, the unjust death of the Son of God and His resurrection from the dead result in grace, peace, and an increasing faithful obedience among all nations through the proclamation of the Gospel. The Kingdom of the Son of David, Jesus Christ, is portrayed in the New Testament as being current as He reigns at the right hand of the Father (Hebrews 8:1; Revelation 2:26-27; 20:4-6). It should be no surprise to anyone familiar with the Scriptures that the Throne of the LORD is the
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]  Christmas with a Capital C is a 2010 American Christian drama direct-to-DVD film directed by Helmut Schleppi. The film's plot was based on a song of the same name by Christian band Go Fish, whose name was inspired by one of actor Brad Stine's stand-up comedy routines. It centers on what, in recent years, has been dubbed the "War on Christmas" in the United States.
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]  On his entry into the city, Matthew's account suggests that Jesus evoked great excitement - "all the city was moved". The people of the city asked "Who is this?" and "the multitudes" answered, "This is Jesus, the prophet from Nazareth of Galilee”. In Jesus and Judaism (1985), E. P. Sanders asked: 'If the entry was what we are told itwas, why did it take so long for the Romans to execute Jesus?' A large-scale event as portrayed in the Gospels, in which Jesus is loudly proclaimed to be the (future) king of Israel, would have been an act of rebellion that the
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]
What is Jesús the capital of? [SEP]
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP]  Bolsheustyikinskoye (Большеустьикинское, Оло Ыҡтамаҡ) is a rural locality (a selo) and the administrative center of Mechetlinsky District in Bashkortostan, Russia. It is located near the Ay River. Population:
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP]  The Head of the District and the Chairman of the District Council is Sergey A. Lyubkin.
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP]  Bolshiye Vyaziomy or Bolshye Vyazemye (Большие Вязёмы) is an urban locality (an urban-type settlement) in Odintsovsky District of Moscow Oblast, Russia. The population is Vjazjomy is the location of Vyazyomy Manor owned by members of the Golitsyn family. Both Kutuzov and Napoleon Bonaparte slept in the main manor house (on the same sofa in the library) only one day apart; Napoleon left the day before the French entered Moscow. The manor and two outbuildings remain to this day.
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP]  Bolshoy Dom (Большой дом, lit. the Big House) is an office building located at 4 Liteyny Avenue in Saint Petersburg, Russia. It is the headquarters of the local Saint Petersburg and Leningrad Oblast branches of the Federal Security Service of Russia (FSB) and Main Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The building is located in the Central District of Saint Petersburg at the beginning of Liteyny Prospekt, one block from the Neva River, at the site of Imperial Russian Old Armoury Building which burned down in 1917. It was originally constructed in 1931–32 for the Joint State Political Directorate (OGPU), the secret police of the Soviet Union at the
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP]  The Bolsheretsky fortress was founded on the Irtysh as a barrier for defense from invasions in 1627. Bolsherechye is located about half-way between Omsk and Tara and is a convenient stopping point for many automobile and river travelers, including those on package tours of the region.
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP] Bolsheustyikinskoye  Bolsheustyikinskoye (, ) is a rural locality (a "selo") and the administrative centre of Mechetlinsky District in Bashkortostan, Russia. It is located near the Ay River. Population:
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP] List of rural localities in Bashkortostan  This is a list of rural localities in Bashkortostan. The Republic of Bashkortostan, (; , ), also historically known as Bashkiria (), is a federal subject of Russia (a republic (state)). It is located between the Volga River and the Ural Mountains. Its capital is the city of Ufa. With a population of 4,072,292 as of the 2010 Census, Bashkortostan is the most populous republic in Russia.
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP] List of districts in Russia  This is a list of districts of Russia. A district (raion) is an administrative and municipal division of a federal subject of Russia.  Within the framework of administrative divisions, the administrative districts are on the same level of hierarchy as the cities of federal subject significance and may be further subdivided into towns of district significance, urban-type settlements of district significance, and selsoviets, although the exact terms for these entities vary from one federal subject to another.  Within the framework of municipal divisions, the municipal districts are on the same level of hierarchy as urban okrugs and are further subdivided into urban settlements, rural settlements, or both. Municipal districts are commonly formed within the boundaries of existing administrative districts, although in practice there are some exceptions to this rule.  Major Russian cities are divided into city districts. Despite a similarity in terminology, they are divisions of a different kind and are not within the scope of this article.  Unlike other federal subjects of Russia, the federal cities have the unique structure of the administrative-territorial divisions. The administrative-territorial divisions of the federal city of Moscow in particular include districts and settlements, which, in turn, are grouped into administrative okrugs. Only the districts are included below. However, as the districts of neither Moscow nor St. Petersburg include any inhabited localities, they do not have administrative centers.  The Republic of Crimea is a federal subject of Russia formed on the territory of the Crimean Peninsula, which is disputed between Russia and Ukraine. Within the Russian legal framework, the districts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea (an administrative division of Ukraine) continue to be in use and are included in the tables below. The federal city of Sevastopol is also located on the peninsula, with its districts having a status similar to that of the districts of Moscow and St. Petersburg.  As of 2014, excluding Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Sevastopol, there are 1,873 administrative districts (including the 14 in the Republic of Crimea) and 1,823 municipal districts (also including the 14 in the Republic of Crimea) in Russia. All these districts have an administrative center, which is usually the same locality for both the administrative and municipal entity.
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP] Bolsheuluysky District Bolsheuluysky District () is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the forty-three in Krasnoyarsk Krai, Russia. It is located in the southwest of the krai and borders with Birilyussky District in the north, Kozulsky District in the east, Achinsky District in the south, Bogotolsky District in the southwest, and with Tyukhtetsky District in the west. The area of the district is . Its administrative center is the rural locality (a "selo") of Bolshoy Uluy. Population: 8,948 (2002 Census); The population of Bolshoy Uluy accounts for 43.6% of the district's total population. The district was founded on
What is Bolsheustyikinskoye the capital of? [SEP] is situated in the district of Fuyuan City in the Province of Heilongjiang, China's easternmost county. The agreement has met with controversy on both sides of the border. In May 2005, Cossacks in Khabarovsk demonstrated against the loss of half of Bolshoy Ussuriysky. In return, some Chinese commentators, especially the media in Hong Kong, Taiwan and overseas which are outside the control of PRC government censorship, criticized the PRC government for signing the agreement, which they regarded as sealing as permanent the loss of former Chinese territory, such as Outer Manchuria, to Russia. The government of the Republic of China
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP]  Dmitriyev (Дми́триев), also known as Dmitriyev-Lgovsky (Дми́триев-Льго́вский), is a town and the administrative center of Dmitriyevsky District of Kursk Oblast, Russia, located on the Svapa River (Dnieper's basin), on the Moscow–Kyiv highway, 159 km northwest of Kursk, the administrative center of the oblast. Population:
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP]  Within the framework of administrative divisions, Dmitriyev serves as the administrative center of Dmitriyevsky District. As an administrative division, it is incorporated within Dmitriyevsky District as the town of district significance of Dmitriyev. As a municipal division, the town of district significance of Dmitriyev is incorporated within Dmitriyevsky Municipal District as Dmitriyev Urban Settlement.
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP]  Dmitriyevsky District (Дми́триевский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-eight in Kursk Oblast, Russia. It is located in the northwest of the oblast. The area of the district is 1270 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Dmitriyev. Population: 22,420 (2002 Census);  The population of Dmitriyev accounts for 42.7% of the district's total population.
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP]  During World War II, Dmitriyev was occupied by German troops from October 8, 1941 to March 2, 1943.
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP]  Dmitriyevsky District is located in the northwest of Kursk Oblast, on the border with Bryansk Oblast to the north. The terrain is hilly plain dissected by ravines; there are 81 rivers and streams in the district, which lies on the Central Russian Upland. The main river in the district is the Svapa River, which flows southwest into the Seym River. The district is 65 km northwest of the city of Kursk, and 420 km southwest of Moscow The area measures 51 km (north-south), and 53 km (west-east). The administrative center is the town of Dmitriev. The district is bordered on the north by Komarichsky District and Sevsky District of Bryansk Oblast, on the east by Zheleznogorsky District, on the south by Konyshyovsky District, and on the west by Khomutovsky District.
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP] Dmitriyev (town)  Dmitriyev (), also known as Dmitriyev-Lgovsky (), is a town and the administrative center of Dmitriyevsky District of Kursk Oblast, Russia, located on the Svapa River (Dnieper's basin), on the Moscow–Kyiv highway, northwest of Kursk, the administrative center of the oblast. Population:
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP] Kirill Dmitriev  Kirill Alexandrovich Dmitriev (; born 12 April 1975) His wife Natalia Popova, a deputy director of the NGO "Innopraktika Foundation", works for and is a very close friend of Putin's younger daughter Katerina Tikhonova. In February 2022, both Kirill Dmitriev and RDIF were sanctioned by the United States Treasury, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine. Under Mr. Dmitriev's leadership RDIF claims to be the first state owned Russian company to call for diplomatic solution and peace in Ukraine. Section::::Early life. Kirill Dmitriev was born in 1975 in Kyiv, Ukrainian SSR, Soviet Union. Kirill Dmitriev was one of the first Russian exchange students from Ukraine who came to a host family in New Hampshire in 1990. When Dmitriev was 14, he was sent to live with friends of his parents in California, where the host family and Dmitriev convinced administrators at Foothill College to enroll him. In two years, he transferred to Stanford University, from which he holds a BA in economics with honors and distinction. He continued his education at Harvard Business School, where he completed the MBA program as a Baker scholar.<ref name=ft/>
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP] Liana Isakadze  Liana Isakadze (, , ) (born August 2, 1946) is a Georgian violinist.
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP] Soldatskoye, Fatezhsky District, Kursk Oblast  Soldatskoye () is a rural locality () and the administrative center of Soldatsky Selsoviet Rural Settlement, Fatezhsky District, Kursk Oblast, Russia. Population:
What is Dmitriyev the capital of? [SEP] Tourist (film)  Tourist () is a 2021 Russian war film and action film directed by Andrey Batov. According to Matthew Campbell, writing in "The Times", it is a "most eye-catching piece of propaganda", which glorifies the men of the Wagner Group, a mercenary force supported by Yevgeny Prigozhin, who sponsored the film. Dubbed in Sango, the film was presented to a sold-out stadium in Bangui, the capital of the Central African Republic in 2021.<ref name=TimesWagner/>  The story revolves around a group of Russian instructors visiting the Central African Republic with former police officer Grisha Dmitriev who end up fighting with bandits. The film debuted at the Barthélemy Boganda stadium in Bangui. The film was filmed in March and April in 2021.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] Busan, South Korea – capital of the province of South Gyeongsang, itself a metropolitan city (from 1963, when the city was separated from the province, to 1983, when it was replaced by Changwon) ; Calicut (Kozhikode), India – until 1964, the administration of the then Union Territory of the Laccadive, Minicoy and Amindivi Islands (now Lakshadweep) was conducted from offices in the city of Kozhikode (better known in English as Calicut), located on the mainland, in the state of Kerala. The territory's government is now seated on the island of Kavaratti. ; Canberra, Australia – seat of government of the Territory of Papua ; Canton (now Guangzhou), China – capital of the province of Kwangtung
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP]  Ngerulmud is the seat of government of the Republic of Palau, an island nation in the Pacific Ocean. It replaced Koror City, Palau's largest city, as capital in 2006. The settlement is located in the state of Melekeok on Babeldaob, the country's largest island, located 20 km northeast of Koror City and 2 km northwest of Melekeok City. It is the least-populous capital city of a sovereign nation in the world.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] Jolbon &mdash; first capital of Goguryeo ; Gungnae City &mdash; second capital of Goguryeo ; Pyongyang &mdash; third capital of Goguryeo ; Wiryeseong (modern Seoul) &mdash; first capital of Baekje ; Ungjin (modern Gongju) &mdash; second capital of Baekje ; Sabi (modern Buyeo County) &mdash; third capital of Baekje ; Gyeongju &mdash; capital of Silla
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP]  Guangdong), Republic of China, itself a centrally-administered city ; Cotabato City, Philippines – former administrative center of the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, but itself part of the Soccsksargen region. After a 2019 referendum, the city became part of the newly created Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, of which it is now the de facto capital. ; Daegu, South Korea – capital of the province of North Gyeongsang, itself a metropolitan city (from 1981, when the city was separated from the province, to 2016, when it was replaced by Andong) ; Daejeon, South Korea – capital of the province of South Chungcheong, itself a metropolitan city (from 1989, when the city was separated
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP]  Seoul, South Korea – capital of the province of Gyeonggi, itself a metropolitan city (from 1946, when the city was separated from the province, to 1967, when it was replaced by Suwon). It was also claimed as the capital of North Korea until 1972, where the de facto Capital, Pyongyang, was also made the de jure capital. ; Sian (now Xi'an), China – capital of the province of Shensi (now Shaanxi), Republic of China, itself a centrally-administered city ; Xindian, Taiwan – capital of the province of Fukien, Republic of China from 1956 to 1996, itself located in Taiwan Province. Before 1956, the capital was Jincheng; it was moved back to Jincheng in 1996.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] Idi Rayeuk  Idi Rayeuk is a town in Aceh province of Indonesia and it is the seat (capital) of East Aceh Regency.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] Persidi Idi  Persidi stands for Persatuan Sepakbola Idi ("en: Football Association of Idi"). Persidi Idi is an Indonesian football club based in Idi Rayeuk, East Aceh Regency, Aceh. They play in Liga 3.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] Abdoe'lxarim MS  Abdoe'lxarim M. S. ( 1901–60), who was born Abdoel Karim bin Moehamad Soetan, was a journalist and Communist Party of Indonesia leader. He was interned in Boven-Digoel concentration camp from 1927 to 1932. During World War II, he collaborated with the Japanese and became an important figure in recruiting support for them in Sumatra; after their defeat he then became a key figure in the anti-Dutch republican forces during the Indonesian National Revolution. Section::::Biography. Section::::Early life and political activity. Abdoel Karim bin Moehamad Soetan was born in Idi Rayeuk, East Aceh Regency, Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia) on 18 June 1901 (or possibly 1900). He was childhood friends with Nathar Zainuddin, another future Communist Party leader. During this time, for some reason, he began spelling his name with an X and abbreviated the rest of his name: Abdoe'lxarim M.s. or occasionally variations such as Abdul Xarim or Xarim M.S.  He joined Cipto Mangunkusumo's (NIP), a multi-racial radical political party influenced by the Indonesian National Awakening, in around 1920. The objective of the reassignment to distant Kupang in the Eastern Indies may have been to isolate him from politics; he decided to resign his government post and returned to Sumatra and became the NIP commissioner there. He travelled around Sumatra giving speeches on behalf of the party in Aceh and elsewhere in Sumatra. He became a journalist as well, editing in Sibolga. In 1923–4 he was editor-in-chief of a tri-monthly magazine named (herald of the people), a revolutionary NIP publication which was published in Langsa. While in Langsa he stepped down from the NIP and joined the Communist Party of Indonesia (, PKI) and became leader of its first Aceh branch. He rose through its ranks to become a leader in the national executive in 1924, and was appointed as the party's commissioner for Sumatra. Because of his high profile and his attempts to hold propaganda meetings around Aceh in 1924, he was ordered to stay in Langsa or face arrest, and was regularly followed by police detectives. In 1925 he was arrested by local police in Aceh after receiving a package from party leaders in Weltevreden (Batavia) and leaving Langsa to conceal it; he was detained for several months.<ref name="Overzicht 1925" /> The exactly length of his detention during this period is disputed; some accounts say it was for 13 months and others say it was shorter and that he participated in events in Padang in 1926.<ref name="Horton 2012" />
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP] East Aceh Regency  East Aceh Regency () is a regency in eastern Aceh Special Region ("Nanggroe Aceh Darussalam") of Indonesia. It is located on the island of Sumatra. The regency covers an area of 6,040.60 square kilometres and had a population of 360,475 at the 2010 Census and 422,401 at the 2020 Census.  The regency borders the Malacca Strait to the north-east, the city of Langsa and Aceh Tamiang Regency to the south-east, Gayo Lues Regency to the south, and Central Aceh Regency, Bener Meriah Regency and North Aceh Regency to the west.
What is Idi Rayeuk the capital of? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]  of the murder of Bruce Wayne's parents. When Hamm's script was rewritten, the scene was deleted, reducing it to a photo in the Gotham Globe newspaper seen in the film. Warner Bros. was less willing to move forward on development, despite their enthusiasm for Hamm's script, which Kane greeted with positive feedback. Hamm's script was then bootlegged at various comic book stores in the United States. Batman was finally given the greenlight to commence pre-production in April 1988, after the success of Burton's Beetlejuice (1988). When comic book fans found out about Burton directing the film with Michael Keaton starring in the lead role, controversy arose over the
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]  Novelists Christa Faust and Gary Phillips wrote a novel adaptation of Alan Moore's story, published on September 25, 2018 by Titan Books.
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]  to director Zack Snyder's Batman v Superman story. Cinematographer Robert Richardson was attached early in development, and said Affleck's script was primarily set in Arkham Asylum and dealt with insanity. The script reportedly featured Deathstroke orchestrating a breakout at Arkham to tire Batman and make him vulnerable, drawing inspiration from the comic books Arkham Asylum: A Serious House on Serious Earth (1989) and "Knightfall" (1992–1994), as well as the video game Batman: Arkham Asylum (2009). Manganiello explained that Deathstroke believed Batman was responsible for the death of his son, and the script featured Deathstroke systematically dismantling Batman's life and killing
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]  and the art and set production design than Batman or anything else in terms of characterization and screentime. Comic book fans reacted negatively over the Joker murdering Thomas and Martha Wayne; in the comic book, Joe Chill is responsible. Writer Sam Hamm said it was Burton's idea to have the Joker murder Wayne's parents. "The Writer's Strike was going on, and Tim had the other writers do that. I also hold innocent to Alfred letting Vicki Vale into the Batcave. Fans were ticked off with that, and I agree. That would have been Alfred's last day of employment at Wayne Manor," Hamm said. The songs written
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]  In the early 1980s, Tom Mankiewicz wrote a script for a film entitled The Batman, with Reitman attached to direct. He planned to cast Meatballs star Bill Murray as Batman, David Niven as Alfred Pennyworth, William Holden as Commissioner James Gordon, and singer David Bowie as The Joker. However, due to Holden's and Niven's death and the rewrites of the script, Reitman left the project and Gremlins director Joe Dante entered in the project, but the film never materialized. In April 1996, it was reported that Reitman was attached to produce, and possibly direct, a Wonder Woman film. However, three years later, he passed the project on to writer Jon Cohen and left for unknown reasons. In 2000 Reitman along with Wolfgang Petersen, Rob Reiner, M. Night Shyamalan, Alan Parker, Tim Robbins, Terry
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP] Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice  Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice is a 2016 American superhero film based on the DC Comics characters Batman and Superman. Distributed by Warner Bros., it is a follow-up to the 2013 film "Man of Steel" and the second film in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU). The film was directed by Zack Snyder, written by Chris Terrio and David S. Goyer, and features an ensemble cast that includes Ben Affleck as Batman and Henry Cavill as Superman, alongside Amy Adams, Jesse Eisenberg, Diane Lane, Laurence Fishburne, Jeremy Irons, Holly Hunter, and Gal Gadot. "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice" is the first live-action film to feature Batman and Superman together, as well as the first live-action cinematic portrayal of Wonder Woman. In the film, criminal mastermind Lex Luthor manipulates Batman into a preemptive battle with Superman, who Luthor is obsessed with destroying.  The film was announced at the 2013 San Diego Comic-Con after the release of "Man of Steel". Snyder stated that the film would take inspiration from the "Batman" comic book series "The Dark Knight Returns" by Frank Miller but clarified that it would follow an original premise. The incarnation of Batman in the film is different from the character's previous portrayal by Christian Bale in "The Dark Knight Trilogy", serving as a cinematic reboot of the character. The film is also inspired by narrative elements from the "Death of Superman". Pre-production began at East Los Angeles College in October 2013 and principal photography started in May 2014 in Detroit. Additional filming also took place in Illinois and New Mexico, concluding that December.  "Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice" premiered at the Auditorio Nacional in Mexico City on March 19, 2016, and was released in the United States on March 25, 2016. Following a strong debut that set new box office records, the film experienced a historic drop in its second weekend and never recovered. Despite grossing $873.6 million worldwide, making it the seventh-highest-grossing film of 2016, it performed below expectations and received generally unfavorable reviews from critics. An extended cut, dubbed the "Ultimate Edition", features 31 minutes of additional footage and was released to home media formats later in 2016.
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Death of a Batman? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP]  Fear No More is a 1961 American thriller film directed by Bernard Wiesen and starring Mala Powers, Jacques Bergerac and Anna Lee Carroll. It was based on a 1946 novel of the same name by Leslie Edgley.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] Mala Powers as Sharon Carlin ; Jacques Bergerac as Paul Colbert ; John Harding as Milo Seymour ; Helena Nash as Irene Maddox ; John Baer as Keith Burgess ; Anna Lee Carroll as Denise Colbert ; Robert Karnes as Joe Brady ; Peter Brocco as Steve Cresca ; Peter Virgo Jr. as Duke Maddox ; Gregory Irvin as Chris Colbert ; Emile Hamaty as Train Conductor
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP]  The film was adapted by Wesley Strick from the original screenplay by James R. Webb, which was an adaptation from the novel The Executioners by John D. MacDonald. It was originally developed by Steven Spielberg, who eventually decided it was too violent and traded it to Scorsese to get back Schindler's List, which Scorsese had decided not to make. Scorsese eventually agreed to do Cape Fear because Universal did support The Last Temptation of Christ. Spielberg stayed on as a producer, through his Amblin Entertainment, but chose not to be credited personally on the finished film. Despite having worked with Nolte in New York Stories (1989), Scorsese did
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP]  Wesley Strick (born February 11, 1954) is an American screenwriter who has written such films as the comic-horror hit Arachnophobia, the Martin Scorsese remake of Cape Fear and the video game adaptation Doom. Since 2015, Strick has worked as a writer/executive producer on The Man in the High Castle.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP]  in the New York Times. He worked on the screenplay for Mark of the Vampire starring Bela Lugosi. He also wrote the 19-page treatment that eventually became The Raven, for which he was not credited. A number of other horror films followed, interspersed with more mainstream films including the Oscar-nominated (The Story of G.I. Joe), a John Wayne movie (Lady from Louisiana), and Carefree. His Hollywood career ended in 1969 with a made for TV movie entitled Fear No Evil, for which he wrote the story. It was the first US television “Movie of the Week” and a success in the ratings, spawning a sequel a year later.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] The Afters  The Afters is an American Christian pop rock band founded by Joshua Havens and Matt Fuqua. Havens and Fuqua first worked together in a Starbucks coffee shop in Mesquite, Texas, where they performed songs for customers, before deciding to form a band. They were initially joined by Brad Wigg from the same Starbucks, and drummer Michael Burden and performed under the name Blisse. When Burden left the band Marc Dodd, from the Mesquite Starbucks, stepped in. Their song "Never Going Back to OK" was the most-played song on R&R magazine's Christian CHR chart for 2008.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] Faith No More  Faith No More is an American rock band from San Francisco, California, formed in 1979. Before settling on the current name in July 1983, the band performed under the names Sharp Young Men Bassist Billy Gould, keyboardist/rhythm guitarist Roddy Bottum and drummer Mike Bordin are the longest-remaining members of the band, having been involved since its inception. The band underwent several early lineup changes, and some major changes later. The current lineup of Faith No More consists of Gould, Bordin, Bottum, lead guitarist Jon Hudson, and vocalist/lyricist Mike Patton.  After releasing six studio albums, including best-selling records "The Real Thing" (1989) and "Angel Dust" (1992), Faith No More officially announced its breakup on April 20, 1998. The band has since reunited, conducting The Second Coming Tour between 2009 and 2010, and releasing its seventh studio album, "Sol Invictus", in May 2015. After the touring cycle of "Sol Invictus", Faith No More went on hiatus once again. In November 2019, the band announced that it would reunite to embark on a 2020 UK and European tour, but due to the COVID-19 pandemic, this was postponed. Touring was due to recommence with a brief US tour in September 2021, followed by the previously postponed UK and Europe dates in June 2022, but all tour dates were cancelled with Patton citing mental health reasons.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] The Frogs (musical)  The Frogs is a musical "freely adapted" by Stephen Sondheim and Burt Shevelove from "The Frogs", an Ancient Greek comedy by Aristophanes. In the musical, Dionysos, despairing of the quality of living dramatists, travels to Hades to bring George Bernard Shaw back from the dead. William Shakespeare competes with Shaw for the title of best playwright, which he wins. Dionysos brings Shakespeare back to the world of the living in the hope that art can save civilization.  The musical was originally performed in Yale University's gymnasium's swimming pool in 1974. The show was produced on Broadway in 2004 with the book revised by Nathan Lane and the score expanded by Sondheim. This version was revived in London in 2017.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] Jordan Mohilowski  Jordan Nicholas Mohilowski is an American songwriter, producer and multi-instrumentalist, based in Nashville, Tennessee. He is the drummer for the Contemporary Christian Music band The Afters as well as a songwriter and producer. He is currently signed to Disney Music Publishing in partnership with pop songwriters/producers Emanuel Kiriakou and E. Kidd Bogart. Jordan is a GMA Dove Award winner and has received multiple BMI Awards for having some of the most performed songs on U.S. Christian radio.
Who was the screenwriter for Fear No More? [SEP] Leslie Edgley  Leslie John Edgley (October 14, 1912 was a mystery fiction writer, radio dramatist screenwriter and playwright. Among the works for which he became known are the scripts for many episodes of "Perry Mason".<ref name="times"/>
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP]  Fakers is a 2004 British film directed by Richard Janes and starring Matthew Rhys as con-man with a big debt to pay off to wanna-be crime lord Art Malik. It was produced by Richard Janes Claire Bee and Todd Kleparski, three graduates from Ravensbourne College of Design and Communication. Completely funded via independent routes the film cost $1,500,000 to make and has opened theatrically in the United Kingdom, America and Japan as well as other territories. The title track was written and performed by Andrea Britton and produced by Andrew J Jones.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP]  In 1999, Rusesabagina received a phone call from an American screenwriter named Keir Pearson. Pearson, along with his colleague Terry George, went on to write the script for Hotel Rwanda in consultation with Rusesabagina. The script was made into a Hollywood film, starring Don Cheadle as Rusesabagina. The film was released in 2004 to much critical acclaim. It received three Academy Award nominations, including for Best Original Screenplay.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP]  The Fake is a 1953 British crime film directed by Godfrey Grayson and starring Dennis O'Keefe, Coleen Gray and Hugh Williams. Its plot concerns an American detective who tries to solve the theft of a priceless painting from the Tate Gallery in London.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP]  The Hoax is a 2006 American comedy-drama film starring Richard Gere, directed by Swedish filmmaker Lasse Hallström. The screenplay by William Wheeler is based on the book of the same title by Clifford Irving. It recounts Irving's elaborate hoax of publishing an autobiography of Howard Hughes that he purportedly helped write, without ever having talked with Hughes. The screenplay was considerably different from the book. Hired as a technical adviser to the film, Irving was displeased with the product and later asked to have his name removed from the credits. It nonetheless earned a positive critical reception, but was a box office bomb, grossing only $11.7 million against a budget of $25 million.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP]  with Reichenbach as his cinematographer. In the time between the shooting of Reichenbach's documentary and the finishing of Welles's, it became known that Irving had perpetrated a hoax of his own, namely a fabricated "authorized biography" of Howard Hughes (the hoax was later fictionalized in The Hoax). This discovery prompted the shooting of still more footage, which then got woven into F for Fake. Interweaving the narratives even more, there are several pieces of footage in the film showing Welles at a party with De Hory, and, at one point, De Hory even signs a painting with a forgery of Welles's signature.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP] Alan Smithee  Alan Smithee (also Allen Smithee) is an official pseudonym used by film directors who wish to disown a project. Coined in 1968 and used until it was formally discontinued in 2000,
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP] Argo (2012 film)  Argo is a 2012 American historical drama thriller film directed, produced by and starring Ben Affleck. The screenplay, written by Chris Terrio, was adapted from the 1999 book of the same name by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency operative Tony Mendez, his memoir "The Master of Disguise", and the 2007 "Wired" article by  Joshuah Bearman, "The Great Escape: How the CIA Used a Fake Sci-Fi Flick to Rescue Americans from Tehran". The film deals with the "Canadian Caper", in which Mendez led the rescue of six U.S. diplomats from Tehran, Iran, under the guise of filming a science fiction film during the 1979–1981 Iran hostage crisis.  The film, which also has Bryan Cranston, Alan Arkin, and John Goodman in supporting roles, was released in the United States on October 12, 2012. It was produced by Grant Heslov, Affleck and George Clooney.  "Argo" was praised for the acting (particularly Arkin and Goodman's), Affleck's direction, Terrio's screenplay, the editing, and Desplat's score. Commentators and participants in the actual operation criticized failures in historical accuracy. The film received seven nominations at the 85th Academy Awards and won three, for Best Picture, Best Adapted Screenplay, and Best Film Editing.  The film also earned five Golden Globe Award nominations: it won Best Motion Picture – Drama and Best Director, and Alan Arkin was nominated for Best Supporting Actor – Motion Picture. It won Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture at the 19th Screen Actors Guild Awards, and Arkin was nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role. It also won Best Film, Best Editing and Best Director at the 66th British Academy Film Awards, Los Angeles Film Critics Association Awards for Best Screenplay, and 37th Hochi Film Award for Best International Picture.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP] Clifford Irving  Clifford Michael Irving (November 5, 1930 – December 19, 2017) was an American novelist and investigative reporter. Although he published 20 novels, he is best known for an "autobiography" allegedly written as told to Irving by billionaire recluse Howard Hughes. The fictional work was to have been published in 1972. After Hughes denounced him and sued the publisher, McGraw-Hill, Irving and his collaborators confessed to the hoax. He was sentenced to years in prison, of which he served 17 months.  Irving wrote "The Hoax" (1981), his account of events surrounding the development and sale of the fake autobiography. The book was adapted as a 2006 biopic of the same name starring Richard Gere as Clifford Irving. He continued to write and published his later books as e-books available via Kindle and Nook.
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP] Yeon Sang-ho  Yeon Sang-ho (born 25 December 1978) is a South Korean film director and screenwriter. He gained international popularity for working his adult animated films "The King of Pigs" (2011) and "The Fake" (2013), and the live-action film "Train to Busan" (2016), its animated prequel "Seoul Station" (2016) and live-action sequel "Peninsula" (2020), and first South Korean superhero film "Psychokinesis" (2018).
Who was the screenwriter for The Fake? [SEP] JT LeRoy  Jeremiah Terminator LeRoy, or simply JT LeRoy is a literary persona created in the 1990s by American writer Laura Albert. LeRoy was presented as the author of three books of fiction, which were purportedly semi-autobiographical accounts by a teenage boy of his experiences of poverty, drug use, and emotional and sexual abuse in his childhood and adolescence from rural West Virginia to California. Albert wrote these works, and communicated with people in the persona of LeRoy via phone and e-mail. Following the release of the first novel "Sarah", Albert's sibling-in-law Savannah Knoop began to make public appearances as the supposed writer. The works attracted considerable literary and celebrity attention, and the authenticity of LeRoy has been a subject of debate, even as details of the creation came to light in the 2000s.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP]  Juan Manuel Puig Delledonne (December 28, 1932 – July 22, 1990), commonly called Manuel Puig, was an Argentine author. Among his best-known novels are La traición de Rita Hayworth (Betrayed by Rita Hayworth, 1968), Boquitas pintadas (Heartbreak Tango, 1969), and El beso de la mujer araña (Kiss of the Spider Woman, 1976) which was adapted into the film released in 1985, directed by the Argentine-Brazilian director Héctor Babenco; and a Broadway musical in 1993.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP]  a movie, 31 Minutos, La Película, in 2008 and won Altazor awards for both directing and writing in 2004. Pedro has achieved international recognition as the co-writer of the successful films The Maid (2009), with Sebastián Silva, and No (2012). Peirano resumed his successful partnership with The Maid's Sebastián Silva in 2011 to co-write and co-direct Gatos Viejos (Old Cats). No, which dealt with the Chilean national plebiscite of 1988, has been nominated for Best Foreign Film in the 85th Academy Awards. Peirano also co-wrote the film Joven y Alocada (Young and Wild, 2012) which won the World Cinema Screenwriting Award at the 2012 Sundance Festival. In 2012, Peirano released the graphic novel El Club de los Juguetes Perdidos (The Lost Toys Club).
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] La máquina de bailar (2006). Co-screenwriter. ; Friend Zone (Pagafantas) (2009). Director and co-screenwriter. ; No controles (2010). Director and co-screenwriter. ; Amigos... (2011). Co-screenwriter. ; Spanish Affair (Ocho apellidos vascos) (2014). Co-screenwriter. ; Negociador (2014). Director and screenwriter. ; Spanish Affair 2 (Ocho apellidos catalanes) (2015). Co-screenwriter. ; Kalebegiak (anthology film, segment: Bidexka) (2016). Director and co-screenwriter. ; En tu cabeza (anthology film, segment: Milagros y Remedios) (2016). Director. ; Bomb Scared (Fe de etarras) (2017). Director and co-screenwriter. ; Superlópez (2018) Co-screenwriter.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP]  Carita Pintada is a Venezuelan telenovela written by Valentina Párraga and produced by Radio Caracas Televisión in 1999. The series lasted 126 episodes and was distributed internationally by RCTV International. Catherine Correia and Simón Pestana starred as the main protagonists (with Simón playing a  dual role as both protagonist and antagonist) with  Marlene De Andrade, Eliana López and Fernando Flores as the villains.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP]  television series based on the novel. In addition, he wrote scripts for several films: "Cerca de las Estrellas" (1962), "Marta" (1970), "Tormento" (1973) and co-wrote the script of the film Fortunata y Jacinta (1969). He drew inspiration from the work of Arthur Miller for his screenplays. He refrained from making public most of his poetry during this period. Only at the end of his life did he publish his book "El crisantemo y la cometa", written in 1971, and his "Biografía secreta" is posthumous. He is left a number of unpublished novels and essays. Between 1972 and 1977 he premiered a good number of adaptations of novels and classic plays, including
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] Heartbreak Tango (film)  Heartbreak Tango (Spanish: "Boquitas pintadas") is a 1974 Argentine drama film, directed by Leopoldo Torre Nilsson.  It was adapted from Argentine writer Manuel Puig's 1969 novel of the same name (English: "Heartbreak Tango").  In a survey of the 100 greatest films of Argentine cinema carried out by the Museo del Cine Pablo Ducrós Hicken in 2000, the film reached the 22nd position. In a new version of the survey organized in 2022 by the specialized magazines "La vida útil", "Taipei" and "La tierra quema", presented at the Mar del Plata International Film Festival, the film reached the 47th position.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] Heartbreak Tango  Heartbreak Tango (original title "Boquitas pintadas" in Spanish: "Little Painted Mouths") is a novel by Argentine author Manuel Puig.  It is Puig's second novel published first in 1969, following the circulation of his first novel, "Betrayed By Rita Hayworth" ("La Traición de Rita Hayworth").
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] Manuel Puig  Juan Manuel Puig Delledonne (December 28, 1932 – July 22, 1990), commonly called Manuel Puig, was an Argentine author. Among his best-known novels are "La traición de Rita Hayworth" ("Betrayed by Rita Hayworth", 1968), "Boquitas pintadas" ("Heartbreak Tango", 1969), and "El beso de la mujer araña" ("Kiss of the Spider Woman", 1976) which was adapted into the film released in 1985, directed by the Argentine-Brazilian director Héctor Babenco; and a Broadway musical in 1993.
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] Gloria Trevi  Gloria de los Ángeles Treviño Ruiz (born February 15, 1968), known as Gloria Trevi (), is a Mexican singer, songwriter, dancer, actress, television hostess, music video director and businesswoman known as "The Supreme Diva of Mexican Pop".
Who was the screenwriter for Boquitas pintadas? [SEP] Gloria (2014 film)  Gloria is a 2014 Mexican drama film directed by Christian Keller, based on the life of Mexican pop singer Gloria Trevi. It was one of fourteen films shortlisted by Mexico to be their submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 88th Academy Awards, but it lost out to "600 Miles".
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] "Pilot"
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" was written by series creator Mike Kelley and directed by Salt director Phillip Noyce it was filmed in North Carolina between March–April 2011.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the period drama television series The Americans. It originally aired on FX in the United States on January 30, 2013. The episode was written by series creator Joe Weisberg and directed by Gavin O'Connor. In 1981, shortly after the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings (Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell) are undercover Soviet intelligence agents from the secretive Directorate S of the KGB sent to the U.S. 15 years ago to work deep cover in Washington, D.C. Their assumed identities are a married couple who run a travel agency, and even their own children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati) do not know their secret. Reviews for the episode were largely positive. Critics commented on the lead performances of Russell, Rhys, and Noah Emmerich. In the United States, the series premiere achieved a viewership of 3.22 million.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the two-part television pilot of the ABC television series Lost, with part 1 premiering on September 22, 2004, and part 2 one week later on September 29. Both parts were directed by J. J. Abrams, who co-wrote the script with Damon Lindelof. Jeffrey Lieber, who had been commissioned by ABC to write the first version of the script, earned a story credit. Filmed in Oahu, Hawaii, it was the most expensive pilot episode up to that time, costing between $10 and $14 million, largely due to the expense of purchasing, shipping, and dressing a decommissioned Lockheed 1011 to represent Flight 815's wreckage. Many changes were made during the casting
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  On August 23, 2017, it was announced that NBC had given Manifest a put pilot commitment, to be written by Jeff Rake and produced by Rake, Robert Zemeckis, Jack Rapke, and Jackie Levine. On January 23, 2018, it was reported that NBC had given the production a formal pilot order. The pilot was directed by David Frankel, who also executive produced. Manifest was ordered to series in May 2018.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Dragon Pilot: Hisone and Masotan
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Test Pilot (film)  Test Pilot is a 1938 film directed by Victor Fleming, starring Clark Gable, Myrna Loy and Spencer Tracy, and featuring Lionel Barrymore. The Oscar-nominated film tells the story of a daredevil test pilot (Gable), his wife (Loy), and his best friend (Tracy).  "Test Pilot" was written by Howard Hawks, Vincent Lawrence, John Lee Mahin, Frank Wead, and Waldemar Young. The screenplay was largely based on an original story by former naval aviator Wead.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Pilot (Breaking Bad)  "Pilot" (titled "Breaking Bad" on DVD and Blu-ray releases) is the series premiere of the American television crime drama series "Breaking Bad". The episode was directed and written by series creator and showrunner Vince Gilligan. It first aired on AMC on January 20, 2008.  In the episode, chemistry teacher Walter White (Bryan Cranston) is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer. Keeping it a secret from his pregnant wife Skyler (Anna Gunn) and their teenage son Walter Jr. (RJ Mitte), he decides that he wants to spend his last years saving money for his family. After going on a drug bust with his brother-in-law and DEA agent Hank Schrader (Dean Norris), Walt spots his former student Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul) and later blackmails him into helping him cook methamphetamine in an RV.  In its initial airing, the pilot received mostly positive reviews from critics, who praised Gilligan for his script and Cranston for his performance. At the 60th Primetime Emmy Awards, the episode received various nominations, with Cranston winning the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Gilligan earning a nomination for Outstanding Directing.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP]  In March 2012, Cohen directed Diana DeGarmo's music video "Good Goodbye". Cohen began his writing career by drafting the screenplay for Extinction. In December 2013, it was revealed that the screenplay had been included in the 2013 Black List of the year's best unproduced scripts in Hollywood. In 2019, Cohen was writing the script for Moonfall. On February 21, 2019, Amblin Partners announced it had bought Cohen's script for the science fiction film Distant. In August 2021, Cohen wrote the most recent screenplay and story for The Expendables 4. He wrote the script for the upcoming horror film Horrorscope.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP]  Towne received great acclaim for his film scripts The Last Detail (1973), Chinatown (1974), and Shampoo (1975). He was nominated for an Oscar for all three scripts, winning for Chinatown. According to Sam Wasson's The Big Goodbye: Chinatown and the Last Years of Hollywood, Towne "secretly employed an old college friend named Edward Taylor as his uncredited writing partner for more than 40 years." Towne was credited for his work on The Yakuza (1975) and did script doctoring on The Missouri Breaks (1976), Orca (1977) and Heaven Can Wait (1978).
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP]  Schulman received Oscar nominations for Best Original Screenplay for Love with the Proper Stranger in 1963 and for Best Adapted Screenplay for Goodbye, Columbus in 1969. He also received three Writers Guild nominations for Best Screenplay for Wild Is the Wind, A Hole in the Head and Love with the Proper Stranger, and a Writers Guild award for Goodbye, Columbus. He was also the recipient of a Humanitas Prize award in 1994 for his work on And the Band Played On. He is credited as the screenwriter of Players, although the script was rewritten without his consent, and by contract he wasn't able to take his name off.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP]  They commissioned the screenplay from Leigh Brackett, who had been Kastner's client when he was an agent and had written the script for the Humphrey Bogart version of The Big Sleep. Brackett: "... set the deal with United Artists, and they had a commitment for a film with Elliott Gould, so either you take Elliott Gould or you don't make the film. Elliott Gould was not exactly my idea of Philip Marlowe, but anyway there we were. Also, as far as the story was concerned, time had gone by—it was twenty-odd years since the novel was written, and the private eye had become a cliché. It had become funny. You had to watch out what you were doing. If you had Humphrey Bogart at the same
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP]  In 1990, Browne took up writing again and completed a feature-length screenplay, which was a winner in the Nicholl Fellowships in Screenwriting competition. The program is sponsored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts & Sciences and is designed to give aspiring screenwriters a way into the film industry. Browne was one of five winners that year and received a twenty thousand dollar grant for his screenplay, Low Tide. Several weeks after winning, that screenplay sold to Showtime and was slated to be produced by the network. After two years of development, executives overseeing production left the network and the screenplay was put into turnaround. Browne continued working in Hollywood for many years. In the late 1990s, he worked with producer-writer Larry Brody, and was hired by Saban/Fox Kids as a staff writer for the animated show, Diabolik, based on the famed Italian comic book. He and Brody later worked together on the Marvel production, Spider-Man Unlimited. In 2010, CBS Television and Sony Pictures produced a television pilot based on Browne's novel, Kiss Her Goodbye. The pilot starred Dylan Walsh, Michael Rapaport, Sandrine Holt, and Terry Kinney, with a script written and directed by Michael Dinner.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP] Good Bye, Lenin!  Good Bye Lenin! is a 2003 German tragicomedy film, directed by Wolfgang Becker. The cast includes Daniel Brühl, Katrin Sass, Chulpan Khamatova, and Maria Simon. The story follows a family in East Germany (GDR); the mother (Sass) is dedicated to the socialist cause and falls into a coma in October 1989, shortly before the November revolution. When she awakens eight months later in June 1990, her son (Brühl) attempts to protect her from a fatal shock by concealing the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of communism in East Germany.  Most scenes were shot at the Karl-Marx-Allee in Berlin and around Plattenbauten near Alexanderplatz. "Good Bye Lenin!" received numerous honours, including 2003's European Film Award for Best Film and German Film Award for Best Fiction Film.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP] The Long Goodbye (film)  The Long Goodbye is a 1973 American neo-noir satirical mystery crime thriller film directed by Robert Altman and based on Raymond Chandler's 1953 novel. The screenplay was written by Leigh Brackett, who co-wrote the screenplay for Chandler's "The Big Sleep" in 1946. The film stars Elliott Gould as Philip Marlowe and features Sterling Hayden, Nina Van Pallandt, Jim Bouton (in a rare acting role), Mark Rydell and an early uncredited appearance by Arnold Schwarzenegger.  The story's period was moved from 1949–50 to 1970s Hollywood. "The Long Goodbye" has been described as "a study of a moral and decent man cast adrift in a selfish, self-obsessed society where lives can be thrown away without a backward glance ... and any notions of friendship and loyalty are meaningless." In 2021, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP] The Goodbye Girl  The Goodbye Girl is a 1977 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Herbert Ross, written by Neil Simon and starring Richard Dreyfuss, Marsha Mason, Quinn Cummings and Paul Benedict. The film, produced by Ray Stark, centers on an odd trio of characters: a struggling actor who has sublet a Manhattan apartment from a friend, the current occupant (his friend's ex-girlfriend, who has just been abandoned), and her precocious young daughter.  Richard Dreyfuss won the 1977 Academy Award for Best Actor for his performance as Elliot Garfield. At the time, he became the youngest man to win an Oscar for Best Actor. Both Mason and Cummings were nominated for Oscars.  The film became the first romantic comedy to earn $100 million in box-office grosses.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP] Goodbye, Mr. Chips  Goodbye, Mr. Chips is a novella about the life of a school teacher, Mr. Chipping, written by English writer James Hilton and first published by Hodder & Stoughton in October 1934. It has been adapted into two feature films and two television presentations.
Who was the screenwriter for Goodbye? [SEP] Hello, Love, Goodbye  Hello, Love, Goodbye is a 2019 Philippine romantic drama film directed by Cathy Garcia-Molina and produced by Star Cinema. The film follows Joy Fabregas (Kathryn Bernardo), a struggling overseas Filipino worker, and Ethan Del Rosario (Alden Richards), a bartender, as they attempt to reconcile their personal careers and love for each other in Hong Kong. The film was released on July 31, 2019 in the Philippines and started screening internationally on August 1, 2019.  "Hello, Love, Goodbye" is currently the highest grossing Philippine film of all time. The film received numerous awards and recognition's locally and internationally. The film was also featured in Golden Globe Awards website,  and received a nomination at the 9th AACTA Awards for Best Asian Film and won at the National level of the Asian Academy Creative Awards 2020 for Best Picture.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP]  Party is a 1994 short film starring Gary Coleman, Floyd Harden, DeAnna Hawkins, Ron Litman and Greg Nassief. The film was directed by Eric Swelstad and produced by Johnnie J. Young of J&E Studio Productions, from a script by Jay Woelfel based on a story by Nathaniel Hawthorne. The film was shot in 1994 on location in Lucerne Valley in the Mojave Desert in California.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP]  Slightly in advance of the film's release, as was the custom of the era, a paperback novelization of the film was published by Gold Medal Books. The author was renowned crime and western novelist Marvin H. Albert, who also made something of a cottage industry out of movie tie-ins. He seems to have been the most prolific screenplay novelizer of the late '50s through mid '60s, and, during that time, the preeminent specialist at light comedy.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP]  The Party is a play by the British dramatist, actor and director Jane Arden (1927–82) which was first staged at the New Theatre, London on 28 May 1958. The play was directed by Charles Laughton and starred, in addition to Laughton himself, Albert Finney, Laughton's wife Elsa Lanchester, Ann Lynn, Joyce Redman, and John Welch. Following generally enthusiastic reviews The Party ran for six months at the New Theatre and has occasionally been performed in repertory since. The play was published by Samuel French Limited.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP]  The Party is a 2017 British black comedy film written and directed by Sally Potter. The film was shot in black and white and features a seven-actor ensemble of Patricia Clarkson, Bruno Ganz, Cherry Jones, Emily Mortimer, Cillian Murphy, Kristin Scott Thomas and Timothy Spall. It was selected to compete for the Golden Bear in the main competition section of the 67th Berlin International Film Festival and was awarded the Guild Film Prize. The film received positive reviews from critics.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP]  The Party is a 1969 Australian TV play. It was made by the ABC in Melbourne under the direction of Chris Muir. It was written for the ABC by the head of Victorian religious broadcasts, John Nicholson. It aired in Melbourne and Sydney on 12 October 1969. It ran for 45 minutes.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP] Rob Thomas (writer)  Robert James "Rob" Thomas (born August 15, 1965) is an American author, producer, director and screenwriter. He created the television series "Veronica Mars" (2004–2007, 2019), co-developed "90210" (2008–2013), and co-created "Party Down" (2009–2010, 2022-), and "iZombie" (2015–2019).
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP] House Party (2023 film)  House Party is an upcoming American comedy film directed by Calmatic from a screenplay by Jamal Olori and Stephen Glover, serving as a reboot of the 1990 film of the same name. The film stars Tosin Cole, Jacob Latimore, Karen Obilom, D.C. Young Fly, and Scott Mescudi. It is produced by LeBron James, who also stars as himself, through his production company, SpringHill Company, in addition to New Line Cinema.   "House Party" is scheduled to be released in the United States on January 13, 2023, by Warner Bros. Pictures.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP] The Party (1968 film)  The Party is a 1968 American comedy film directed by Blake Edwards, and starring Peter Sellers and Claudine Longet. The film has a very loose structure, and essentially serves as a series of set pieces for Sellers's improvisational comedy talents. Based on a fish-out-of-water premise, the film is about a bungling actor from India, Hrundi V. Bakshi (portrayed by Sellers), who accidentally gets invited to a lavish Hollywood dinner party and "makes terrible mistakes based upon ignorance of Western ways".  The protagonist Hrundi Bakshi was influenced by two of Sellers' earlier characters: the Indian doctor Ahmed el Kabir in "The Millionairess" (1960) and Inspector Clouseau in "The Pink Panther" series. In turn, the character Hrundi Bakshi went on to be influential, inspiring several later popular characters, including Amitabh Bachchan's character Arjun Singh in the 1982 Bollywood blockbuster "Namak Halaal", and Hank Azaria's character Apu Nahasapeemapetilon in the American animated sitcom "The Simpsons".
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP] Sausage Party  Sausage Party is a 2016 adult computer-animated comedy film directed by Conrad Vernon and Greg Tiernan and written by Kyle Hunter, Ariel Shaffir, Seth Rogen, and Evan Goldberg from a story by Rogen, Goldberg, and Jonah Hill. The film follows an anthropomorphic sausage who lives in a supermarket and discovers the truth about what happens when groceries are purchased. He goes on a journey with his friends to escape their fate while also facing a psychotic and malicious douche who wants to kill him.   The film's animation was handled by the Canada-based Nitrogen Studios. The film's rough cut premiered on March 14, 2016, at South by Southwest, followed by its general theatrical release in the United States on August 12, 2016, by Columbia Pictures.  The film received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its animation, voice acting, and humor, though some criticized the large amount of cursing. It grossed $141.3 million against a budget of $19 million, becoming the highest-grossing R-rated animated film at the time until it was surpassed by "" in 2020.
Who was the screenwriter for Party? [SEP] House Party (1990 film)  House Party is a 1990 American comedy film directed by Reginald Hudlin. It stars Christopher "Kid" Reid and Christopher "Play" Martin of the popular hip hop duo Kid 'n Play, and also stars Paul Anthony, Bow-Legged Lou and B-Fine from Full Force, and Robin Harris (who died of a heart attack nine days after "House Party" was released). The film also starred Martin Lawrence, Tisha Campbell, A.J. Johnson, Daryl "Chill" Mitchell and Gene "Groove" Allen (of Groove B. Chill), Kelly Jo Minter, John Witherspoon, with a cameo by funk musician George Clinton. This was one of Harris' final acting roles before his death.  The film was written and directed by Reginald Hudlin, based on his award-winning Harvard University student film. The film grossed over $26 million in its run at the box office with its widest release being 700 theaters. The film has since become a cult classic. Upon its initial release, the film garnered critical acclaim.  The lead roles were originally written for DJ Jazzy Jeff & The Fresh Prince.  In 2022, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP]  The script, written by Arash Amel, was listed in the 2011 Hollywood Black List of the most liked screenplays written in that year and sold to French-based producer Pierre-Ange Le Pogam in a competitive bid.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP]  Amel wrote and produced the controversial Princess Grace period drama Grace of Monaco, starring Nicole Kidman, Tim Roth and Frank Langella, and directed by Olivier Dahan. The script was listed in the 2011 Black List of the most liked Hollywood screenplays written in that year. The film opened the Cannes Film Festival 2014, where it was heavily criticised. Harvey Weinstein, whose company owns the distribution rights to Grace of Monaco, was absent from the Cannes premier of the movie. Weinstein was said to have been doing charity work with his wife Georgina Chapman. Weinstein stated that the director's cut of the film was missing a key scene that would address the
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP]  published in Fallen Angels: Six Noir Tales Told for Television. Rodman then wrote Joe Gould's Secret, which opened the 2000 Sundance festival and was subsequently released by October/USA Films. Rodman's original screenplay F. was selected by Premiere Magazine as one of Hollywood's Ten Best Unproduced Screenplays. Other films include Savage Grace, starring Julianne Moore, and August, with Josh Hartnett, Rip Torn, and David Bowie—both of which had their US premieres at the 2008 Sundance Film Festival. They were released in 2008 from IFC and First Look, respectively. Rodman's screenplay for Savage Grace was nominated for a Spirit Award in the Best Screenplay category.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP]  The original screenplay The Medicine Runner by Christian Parkes was a 2003 Nicholl Fellowship Semi-Finalist.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP]  Grace Neville (1898–1973) was an American screenwriter.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP] Amazing Grace  "Amazing Grace" is a Christian hymn published in 1779 with words written in 1772 by English Anglican clergyman and poet John Newton (1725–1807). It is an immensely popular hymn, particularly in the United States, where it is used for both religious and secular purposes.  Newton wrote the words from personal experience; he grew up without any particular religious conviction, but his life's path was formed by a variety of twists and coincidences that were often put into motion by others' reactions to what they took as his recalcitrant insubordination. He was pressed (navally conscripted) into service with the Royal Navy, and after leaving the service, he became involved in the Atlantic slave trade. In 1748, a violent storm battered his vessel off the coast of County Donegal, Ireland, so severely that he called out to God for mercy. While this moment marked his spiritual conversion, he continued slave trading until 1754 or 1755, when he ended his seafaring altogether. Newton began studying Christian theology and later became an abolitionist.  Ordained in the Church of England in 1764, Newton became the curate of Olney, Buckinghamshire, where he began to write hymns with poet William Cowper. "Amazing Grace" was written to illustrate a sermon on New Year's Day of 1773. It is unknown if there was any music accompanying the verses; it may have been chanted by the congregation. It debuted in print in 1779 in Newton's and Cowper's "Olney Hymns", but settled into relative obscurity in England. In the United States, "Amazing Grace" became a popular song used by Baptist and Methodist preachers as part of their evangelizing, especially in the American South, during the Second Great Awakening of the early 19th century. It has been associated with more than 20 melodies. In 1835, American composer William Walker set it to the tune known as "New Britain" in a shape note format; this is the version most frequently sung today.  With the message that forgiveness and redemption are possible regardless of sins committed and that the soul can be delivered from despair through the mercy of God, "Amazing Grace" is one of the most recognisable songs in the English-speaking world. American historian Gilbert Chase writes that it is "without a doubt the most famous of all the folk hymns" and Jonathan Aitken, a Newton biographer, estimates that the song is performed about 10 million times annually.<ref name="aitken224"/>  It has had particular influence in folk music, and has become an emblematic black spiritual. Its universal message has been a significant factor in its crossover into secular music. "Amazing Grace" became newly popular during the 1960s revival of American folk music, and it has been recorded thousands of times during and since the 20th century.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP] Grace (TV series)  Grace is a British television crime drama series, based in the English city of Brighton & Hove, that stars John Simm in the title role of DSU Roy Grace, a dogged detective who, haunted by the disappearance of his wife some years previously, uses his interests in the paranormal to help him solve cases.   The series, based on the bestselling novels by novelist Peter James, was brought to life by acclaimed screenwriter Russell Lewis, with a pair of films, comprising the novels "Dead Simple" and "Looking Good Dead", filmed in 2020 for broadcast in 2021. "Dead Simple", broadcast in March 2021, attracted an estimated 7.2m viewers, which made it the fifth-most-watched programme for the week of 8–14 March, according to BARB.  Following strong viewing figures for the opening episode, a second series of three films was then commissioned in 2021, for broadcast in 2022. A third series has subsequently been commissioned for 2023, with filming to begin in August 2022.
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP] Grace Coddington  Pamela Rosalind Grace Coddington (born 20 April 1941) is a Welsh former model and former creative director at large of American "Vogue" magazine. Coddington is known for the creation of large, complex and dramatic photoshoots. A "Guardian" profile wrote that she "has produced some of fashion's most memorable imagery. Her pictures might be jolly and decadent or moody and mysterious."
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP] Grace Parra  Grace Parra Janney (born June 27, 1984) is an American screenwriter, presenter, and actress who was a contributor on "The Nightly Show with Larry Wilmore".
Who was the screenwriter for Grace? [SEP] Jeff Grace  Jeff Grace is a comedian, screenwriter, film producer, film director, and actor. Grace serves as the director of "Folk Hero & Funny Guy", an independent film starring Wyatt Russell, Alex Karpovsky, Hannah Simone, Heather Morris, Meredith Hagner, and Melanie Lynskey. Grace wrote the screenplay for the film about estranged friends on a journey. He also serves as a director and writer with 99 Tigers, a creative services agency.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP]  A ghostwriter (Ewan McGregor) is hired by a publishing firm to complete the autobiography of the former British Prime Minister Adam Lang (Pierce Brosnan). The Ghost's predecessor and Lang's aide, Mike McAra, has recently died in a drowning accident. The Ghost travels to Old Haven on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, where Lang and his wife Ruth (Olivia Williams) are staying. Originally staying at a hotel, The Ghost is relocated to Lang's estate when the media descend on the island since he has learned of Lang's presence there. The former British Foreign Secretary Richard Rycart (Robert Pugh) accuses Lang of authorizing the
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP]  The Ghost is a 2007 contemporary political thriller by the best-selling English novelist and journalist Robert Harris. In 2010, the novel was adapted into a film, The Ghost Writer, directed by Roman Polanski and starring Pierce Brosnan, for which Polanski and Harris co-wrote the screenplay.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP]  The Ghost Writer (released as The Ghost in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is a 2010 neo-noir political thriller film directed by Roman Polanski. The film is an adaptation of a 2007 Robert Harris novel, The Ghost, with the screenplay written by Polanski and Harris. It stars Ewan McGregor, Pierce Brosnan, Kim Cattrall, and Olivia Williams. The film was a critical and commercial success and won numerous cinematic awards including Best Director for Polanski at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival and also at the 23rd European Film Awards in 2010.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP]  The Ghost is asked to complete the book for posthumous publication. At the book's launch party in London, the Ghost learns that Emmett, who is in attendance, was Ruth's tutor when she was at Harvard University. While going through the original manuscript, he learns that it was suspected of being a security risk and that the truth was in the beginnings. Going through the manuscript in a back room, The Ghost discovers that McAra wrote the truth by using the first few words of the beginnings of the first few chapters. That spells out, "Lang's wife Ruth was recruited
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP]  Polanski had originally teamed with Robert Harris for a film of Harris's novel Pompeii, but the project was cancelled because of the looming actors' strike that autumn. Polanski and Harris then turned to Harris' current best seller, The Ghost. They co-wrote a script and in November 2007, just after the book's release, Polanski announced filming for autumn 2008. In June 2008, Nicolas Cage, Pierce Brosnan, Tilda Swinton, and Kim Cattrall were announced as the stars. Production was then postponed by a number of months, with Ewan McGregor and Olivia Williams replacing Cage and Swinton, respectively, as a result.  The film finally began production in February 2009 in Germany,
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP] The Ghost Writer (film)  The Ghost Writer (released as The Ghost in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is a 2010 neo-noir political thriller film directed by Roman Polanski. The film is an adaptation of a 2007 Robert Harris novel, "The Ghost", with the screenplay written by Polanski and Harris. It stars Ewan McGregor, Pierce Brosnan, Kim Cattrall, and Olivia Williams.  The film was a critical and commercial success and won numerous cinematic awards including Best Director for Polanski at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival and also at the 23rd European Film Awards in 2010.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (1990 film)  Ghost is a 1990 American romantic fantasy film directed by Jerry Zucker from a screenplay by Bruce Joel Rubin, and starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore, Whoopi Goldberg, Tony Goldwyn, Vincent Schiavelli, and Rick Aviles. The plot centers on Sam Wheat (Swayze), a murdered banker, whose ghost sets out to save his girlfriend, Molly Jensen (Moore), from the person who killed him – through the help of the psychic Oda Mae Brown (Goldberg).  "Ghost" was theatrically released on July 13, 1990, to commercial success, grossing $505 million against a budget of $22–23 million and emerging as the highest-grossing film of 1990 and at the time of its release, was the third-highest-grossing film of all time. The film received positive reviews from critics, with particular praise going towards the score and performances of the cast. "Ghost" earned five nominations at the 63rd Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Score, Best Film Editing, and winning Best Supporting Actress for Goldberg and Best Original Screenplay for Rubin.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP] Ghostwriter  A ghostwriter is hired to write literary or journalistic works, speeches, or other texts that are officially credited to another person as the author. Celebrities, executives, participants in timely news stories, and political leaders often hire ghostwriters to draft or edit autobiographies, memoirs, magazine articles, or other written material. Memoir ghostwriters often pride themselves in "disappearing" when impersonating others since such disappearance signals the quality of their craftsmanship. In music, ghostwriters are often used to write songs, lyrics, and instrumental pieces. Screenplay authors can also use ghostwriters to either edit or rewrite their scripts to improve them. Usually, there is a confidentiality clause in the contract between the ghostwriter and the credited author that obligates the former to remain anonymous. Sometimes the ghostwriter is acknowledged by the author or publisher for their writing services, euphemistically called a "researcher" or "research assistant", but often the ghostwriter is not credited.  Ghostwriting (or simply "ghosting") also occurs in other creative fields. Composers have long hired ghostwriters to help them to write musical pieces and songs; Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is an example of a well-known composer who was paid to ghostwrite music for wealthy patrons. Ghosting also occurs in popular music. A pop music ghostwriter writes lyrics and a melody in the style of the credited musician. In hip hop music, the increasing use of ghostwriters by high-profile hip-hop stars has led to controversy. In the visual arts, it is not uncommon in either fine art or commercial art such as comics for a number of assistants to do work on a piece that is credited to a single artist; Andy Warhol engaged in this practice, supervising an assembly line silk screen process for his artwork. However, when credit is established for the writer, the acknowledgment of their contribution is public domain and the writer in question would not be considered a ghostwriter.
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP] Bruce Joel Rubin  Bruce Joel Rubin (born March 10, 1943) is an American screenwriter, meditation teacher, and photographer. His films often explore themes of life and death with metaphysical and science fiction elements. Prominent among them are "Jacob's Ladder", "My Life" and "Ghost", for which he received the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. "Ghost" was also nominated for Best Picture, and was the highest-grossing film of 1990. He is sometimes credited as "Derek Saunders" or simply "Bruce Rubin".
Who was the screenwriter for Ghost? [SEP] Ghost in the Shell (2017 film)  Ghost in the Shell is a 2017 science fiction action film directed by Rupert Sanders and written by Jamie Moss, William Wheeler and Ehren Kruger, based on the Japanese manga of the same name by Masamune Shirow. It stars Scarlett Johansson, Takeshi Kitano, Michael Pitt, Pilou Asbæk, Chin Han and Juliette Binoche. Set in a near future when the line between humans and robots is blurring, the plot follows the Major (Johansson), a cyborg supersoldier who investigates her past.  Filming for "Ghost in the Shell" took place in New Zealand from February to June 2016, with additional filming in Hong Kong that June. The film premiered in Tokyo on March 16, 2017, and was released in the United States on March 31, 2017, in IMAX, 3D, IMAX 3D, and 4DX. It received mixed reviews, with praise for its cast performances, visual style, action sequences, cinematography and musical score, but criticism for its plot and lack of character development. The casting of white actors (particularly Johansson) drew accusations of racism and whitewashing in the United States, despite Mamoru Oshii, director of the original anime, stating there was no basis for this accusation. It grossed $169.8 million worldwide against a production budget of $110 million. The film debuted at No. 2 on home media.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP]  By og land hand i hand (Town and Country Hand in Hand) is a 1937 Norwegian drama film written and directed by Olav Dalgard, starring Hans Bille and Lars Tvinde. The film was made by the Norwegian Labour Party for the 1937 local elections.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP]  Mario Soldati, a Piedmontese novelist and film director, believed it had the makings of a suspense film about Yugoslav spies in postwar Venice. Upon Soldati's prompting, Greene continued writing the story as the basis for a film script. Apparently he lost interest in the project, leaving it as a substantial fragment that was published posthumously in The Graham Greene Film Reader (1993) and No Man's Land (2005). A script for The Stranger's Hand was written by Guy Elmes on the basis of Greene's unfinished story, and filmed by Soldati in 1954. In 1965, Greene again entered a similar New Statesman competition pseudonymously, and won an honourable mention.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP]  The wealthy landowner Hans Bjørnstad (Bille) is approached by his workers for a raise, but is shocked by their radical socialist ideas. Later he talks to another landowner, Nils Tveit (Tvinde), who is more sympathetic to the workers' case. Through conversations with family members in Oslo, the two realise the advantages Labour government has brought, and the necessity of cooperation between town and country for the prosperity of the country.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP]  The Writer with No Hands is a 2017 British documentary feature film, which follows writer Matthew Alford as he tries to establish that the accidental death of Hollywood screenwriter Gary DeVore was, in fact, an assassination by the United States government. The film was screened at venues on 27 June 2017 to commemorate the twentieth anniversary of DeVore's fate and a television edit subsequently shown on VGTV, Rialto Channel, and Means TV. It began streaming on Scottish Television in February 2021.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP]  Stephen Harrigan has also been a prolific screenwriter, principally in the field of made-for-television movies, a career he recounted in a Slate essay titled "I Was an A-List Writer of B-List Productions." Among the films he has written are The Last of His Tribe (HBO), Beyond the Prairie: The True Story of Laura Ingalls Wilder (CBS), King of Texas (TNT) and The Colt (The Hallmark Channel.) He worked with Robert Altman on a feature version of S. R. Bindler's documentary, Hands on a Hard Body, about an endurance contest to win a pickup truck. Altman was in pre-production on the movie at the time of his death in November 2006. More recently, he has collaborated with William Broyles Jr. on a screenplay based on Conn Igulden's series of novels about Julius Caesar. That project is in development with Exclusive Media. Robert Duvall optioned—as producer and star—another screenplay, The Which Way Tree, based on the novel by Elizabeth Crook. Harrigan and Crook co-wrote the screenplay.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP] Toralf Sandø  Toralf Sandø (April 6, 1899 in Flatanger – March 4, 1970) was a Norwegian film director and actor. He also read Olav Duun books for NRK Radio.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP] The Land Before Time (film)  The Land Before Time is a 1988 animated adventure drama film directed and produced by Don Bluth from a story by Judy Freudberg and Tony Geiss and a screenplay by Stu Krieger, and executive produced by Steven Spielberg, George Lucas, Kathleen Kennedy, and Frank Marshall. The film stars the voices of Gabriel Damon, Candace Hutson, Judith Barsi (posthumously) and Will Ryan with narration provided by Pat Hingle. It is the first film in "The Land Before Time" franchise.  Produced by Amblin Entertainment and Sullivan Bluth Studios, it features dinosaurs living in prehistoric times. The plot concerns a young "Apatosaurus" named Littlefoot, who is orphaned when his mother is killed by a vicious carnivore ("Tyrannosaurus"). Littlefoot flees famine and upheaval to search for the Great Valley, an area spared from devastation. On his journey, he meets four young companions: Cera a "Triceratops", Ducky a "Saurolophus", Petrie a "Pteranodon", and Spike a "Stegosaurus". The film explores issues of prejudice between the different species and the hardships they endure in their journey as they are guided by the spirit of Littlefoot's mother and forced to deal with a "sharptooth" ("Tyrannosaurus").   "The Land Before Time" is the only Don Bluth film of the 1980s in which Dom DeLuise did not participate (instead, he starred in Disney's "Oliver & Company" released that same day), and the only film in "The Land Before Time" series that is not a musical, as well as the only one to be released theatrically worldwide. It was also the last film that Bluth directed that was distributed by Universal Pictures.  The film was released by Universal on November 18, 1988, to generally positive reviews from critics and was a box office success, grossing $84.4 million. Its success, along with "An American Tail" and the 1988 live-action/animated film "Who Framed Roger Rabbit" led Spielberg to found his animation studio, Amblimation. The first film spawned a franchise with thirteen direct-to-video sequels, a television series, video games and merchandise, none of which had Bluth, Spielberg nor Lucas' involvement (though Amblin Entertainment was involved in the television series like it was for "Fievel's American Tails"). It is currently Don Bluth's third highest-grossing animated film, only behind "Anastasia" (1997) and "An American Tail" (1986).
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP] Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs (1937 film)  Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs is a 1937 American animated musical fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. Based on the 1812 German fairy tale by the Brothers Grimm, it is the first full-length traditionally animated feature film and the first Disney animated feature film. The story was adapted by storyboard artists Dorothy Ann Blank, Richard Creedon, Merrill De Maris, Otto Englander, Earl Hurd, Dick Rickard, Ted Sears and Webb Smith. David Hand was the supervising director, while William Cottrell, Wilfred Jackson, Larry Morey, Perce Pearce, and Ben Sharpsteen directed the film's individual sequences.  "Snow White" premiered at the Carthay Circle Theatre in Los Angeles, California on December 21, 1937. It was a critical and commercial success and, with international earnings of more than $8 million during its initial release (compared to its $1.5 million budget), it briefly held the record of highest-grossing sound film at the time. The popularity of the film has led to its being re-released theatrically many times, until its home video release in the 1990s. Adjusted for inflation, it is one of the top-ten performers at the North American box office and the highest-grossing animated film. Worldwide, its inflation-adjusted earnings top the animation list.  "Snow White" was nominated for Best Musical Score at the Academy Awards in 1938, and the next year, producer Walt Disney was awarded an honorary Oscar for the film. This award was unique, consisting of one normal-sized, plus seven miniature Oscar statuettes. They were presented to Disney by Shirley Temple.  In 1989, the United States Library of Congress deemed the film "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" and selected it as one of the first 25 films for preservation in the National Film Registry. The American Film Institute ranked it among the 100 greatest American films, and also named the film as the greatest American animated film of all time in 2008. Disney's take on the fairy tale has had a significant cultural effect, resulting in popular theme park attractions, a video game, a Broadway musical, and an upcoming live-action film.
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP] Of Mice and Men  Of Mice and Men is a novella written by John Steinbeck. Published in 1937, it narrates the experiences of George Milton and Lennie Small, two displaced migrant ranch workers, who move from place to place in California in search of new job opportunities during the Great Depression in the United States.  Steinbeck based the novella on his own experiences working alongside migrant farm workers as a teenager in the 1910s (before the arrival of the Okies that he would describe in "The Grapes of Wrath"). The title is taken from Robert Burns' poem "To a Mouse", which reads: "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men / Gang aft agley". (The best laid schemes of mice and men / Often go awry.)  While it is a book taught in many schools, "Of Mice and Men" has been a frequent target of censors for vulgarity, and what some consider offensive and racist language; consequently, it appears on the American Library Association's list of the "Most Challenged Books of the 21st Century".
Who was the screenwriter for By og land hand i hand? [SEP] The Wizard of Oz (1939 film)  The Wizard of Oz is a 1939 American musical fantasy film produced by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (MGM). An adaptation of L. Frank Baum's 1900 children's fantasy novel "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", the film was primarily directed by Victor Fleming (who left the production to take over the troubled "Gone with the Wind"), and stars Judy Garland, Frank Morgan, Ray Bolger, Bert Lahr, Jack Haley, Billie Burke, and Margaret Hamilton. Noel Langley, Florence Ryerson, and Edgar Allan Woolf received credit for the screenplay, while others made uncredited contributions. The music was composed by Harold Arlen and adapted by Herbert Stothart, with lyrics by Edgar "Yip" Harburg.  Characterized by its use of Technicolor, fantasy storytelling, musical score, and memorable characters, "The Wizard of Oz" was considered a critical success and was nominated for six Academy Awards including Best Picture, ultimately winning Best Original Song for "Over the Rainbow" and Best Original Score for Stothart. While the film was sufficiently popular at the box office, it failed to make a profit for MGM until its 1949 re-release, earning only $3 million on a $2.7 million budget, which made it MGM's most expensive production at that time.  The 1956 television broadcast premiere of the film on CBS reintroduced the film to the public; according to the U.S. Library of Congress, it is the most seen film in movie history. In 1989, it was selected by the Library of Congress as one of the first 25 films for preservation in the United States National Film Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant"; it is also one of few films on UNESCO's Memory of the World Register. The film was ranked second in "Variety"s inaugural 100 Greatest Movies of All Time list published in 2022. It was among the top ten in the 2005 BFI (British Film Institute) list of "50 films to be seen by the age of 14", and is on the BFI's updated list of "50 films to be seen by the age of 15" released in May 2020. "The Wizard of Oz" has become the source of many quotes referenced in contemporary popular culture. The film frequently ranks on critics' lists of the greatest films of all time, and is the most commercially successful adaptation of L. Frank Baum's work.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  The Accused (Los Acusados) is a 1960 Argentine crime drama directed and written by Antonio Cunill Jr.. The film was based on a screen play by Marco Denevi. The film starred Mario Soffici and Silvia Legrand.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Accused is a 1936 British mystery film directed by Thornton Freeland and starring Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Dolores del Río and Florence Desmond. It was made at Isleworth Studios by the independent Criterion Films, which Fairbanks was a co-owner of. The film's sets were designed by Edward Carrick.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Arvidson wrote screenplays, including the one for the five-reel Who's Guilty Now? She was an associate editor of Film Fun and a film critic for Leslie's Magazine, and she wrote the book When the Movies Were Young.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  I Stand Accused is a 1938 American drama film directed by John H. Auer and written by Gordon Kahn and Alex Gottlieb. The film stars Robert Cummings, Helen Mack, Lyle Talbot, Thomas Beck, Gordon Jones and Robert Paige. The film was released by Republic Pictures.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Accused (Czech: Obžalovaný) is a 1964 film directed by Ján Kadár and Elmar Klos. The film has won a Crystal Globe at 1964 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] The Accused (1988 film)  The Accused is a 1988 American legal drama film directed by Jonathan Kaplan from a screenplay written by Tom Topor. The film is loosely based on the 1983 gang rape of Cheryl Araujo in New Bedford, Massachusetts. Set in Washington state, but filmed mainly in Vancouver, British Columbia, the film stars Jodie Foster as Sarah Tobias, a young waitress, who is gang raped by three men at a local bar. With the aid of attorney, Kathryn Murphy (Kelly McGillis), she sets out to prosecute the rapists as well as the men who helped induce the assault. Bernie Coulson, Leo Rossi, Ann Hearn, Carmen Argenziano, Steve Antin and Tom O'Brien are featured in supporting roles.   "The Accused" premiered at the 39th Berlin International Film Festival, where it competed for the Golden Bear. It was released in limited theatres on October 14, 1988 by Paramount Pictures and was highly controversial upon release, mostly due to its graphic representation of gang rape. The film became a critical and commercial success, grossing over $92 million worldwide against a $13 million budget, and was chosen by the National Board of Review as the . Critics praised the film's audacity, the authenticity of the portrayal of its subject matter, and credited it for being one of the first mainstream films to deal with the horrors of rape and its aftermath on a victim's life. Foster's performance marked her breakthrough into adult roles, earning numerous accolades including the Academy Award for Best Actress.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Max Landis  Max Landis (born August 3, 1985) is an American screenwriter and filmmaker, and the son of director John Landis. He wrote scripts for the films "Chronicle" (2012), "American Ultra" (2015), "Victor Frankenstein" (2015), and "Bright" (2017). He wrote and directed the film "Me Him Her" (2015), produced the first two seasons of the Syfy series "Channel Zero" (2016), and created the series "Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency" (2016) based on the novel, for BBC America. He has also written limited series published by DC and Image Comics.  In both 2011 and 2012, he was listed among "Forbes" magazine's "30 Under 30" young people to watch in the entertainment industry. His career stalled in 2017, following accusations from several women of emotional and sexual abuse.<ref name="The Daily Beast" />
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Jimmy McGovern  James Stanley McGovern (born September 1949) is an English screenwriter and producer. He is best known for creating the drama series "Cracker" (1993–1995), for which he received two Edgar Awards from the Mystery Writers of America. He also received recognition for creating drama series such as "Hillsborough", "The Lakes", "The Street", and "Accused", among others. On 8 December 2021 Jimmy was conferred the Freedom of Liverpool, in recognition of his life's work.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Roman Polanski  Raymond Roman Thierry Polański (né Liebling; 18 August 1933) is a French-Polish<ref name="auto3"/> film director, producer, screenwriter, and actor. He is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, two British Academy Film Awards, nine César Awards, two Golden Globe Awards,  as well as the Golden Bear and a Palme d'Or.  His Polish–Jewish parents moved the family from his birthplace in Paris back to Kraków in 1937. Two years later, the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany started World War II, and the family found themselves trapped in the Kraków Ghetto. After his mother and father were taken in raids, Polanski spent his formative years in foster homes, surviving the Holocaust by adopting a false identity and concealing his Jewish heritage. Polanski's first feature-length film, "Knife in the Water" (1962), was made in Poland and was nominated for the United States Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.<ref name="california" /> After living in France for a few years, he moved to the United Kingdom, where he directed his first three English-language feature-length films: "Repulsion" (1965), "Cul-de-sac" (1966), and "The Fearless Vampire Killers" (1967). In 1968, he moved to the United States and cemented his status in the film industry by directing the horror film "Rosemary's Baby" (1968).  Polanski's life changed in 1969 when his pregnant wife, actress Sharon Tate, and four friends were murdered by members of the Manson Family.<ref name="Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired" /><ref name="USAToday"/> He made "Macbeth" (1971) in England and "Chinatown" (1974) back in Hollywood. In 1977, Polanski was arrested and charged with drugging and raping a 13-year-old girl. As a result of a plea bargain, he pleaded guilty to the lesser offence of unlawful sex with a minor. In 1978, upon learning that the judge planned to reject his plea deal and impose a prison term instead of probation, he fled to Paris. As a result, Polanski is a fugitive from the U.S. criminal justice system. After fleeing to Europe, Polanski continued directing. His other critically acclaimed films include "Tess" (1979), "The Pianist" (2002), "The Ghost Writer" (2010), "Venus in Fur" (2013), and "An Officer and a Spy" (2019).
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Bryan Singer  Bryan Jay Singer (born September 17, 1965)<ref name=filmref/> is an American filmmaker. He is the founder of Bad Hat Harry Productions and has produced almost all of the films he has directed.  After graduating from the University of Southern California, Singer directed his first short film, "Lion's Den" (1988). On the basis of that film, he received financing for his next film, "Public Access" (1993), which was a co-winner of the Grand Jury Prize at the 1993 Sundance Film Festival. In the mid-1990s, Singer received critical acclaim for directing the neo-noir crime thriller "The Usual Suspects" (1995). He followed this with another thriller, "Apt Pupil" (1998), an adaptation of a Stephen King novella about a boy's fascination with a Nazi war criminal. In the 2000s, he became known for big budget superhero films such as "X-Men" (2000), for which Singer won the 2000 Saturn Award for Best Direction, its sequel "X2" (2003), and "Superman Returns" (2006). He then directed the World War II historical thriller "Valkyrie" (2008), co-wrote/co-produced "" (2011), and directed the fantasy adventure film "Jack the Giant Slayer" (2013), as well as two more "X-Men" films, "" (2014) and "" (2016). Singer also directed the Queen biographical film "Bohemian Rhapsody" (2018), although he was fired from the film shortly before its completion in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP]  Publisher and editor George Petros was a writer, illustrator and graphic artist. Editor Adam Parfrey was a writer and montage artist. Associate editor Kim Seltzer was a painter and illustrator. Associate editor R. Bruce Ritchie was a writer and graphic artist. Editor Salvatore Canzonieri was a writer, graphic artist, musician and healer. Several contributing editors worked on the magazine: Michael Andros was a montage artist, poet and archivist. Nancy Keating was an art director and illustrator. Robert N. Taylor was a writer, illustrator, graphic artist and musician. John Aes-Nihil was a filmmaker and archivist. Among the many others who contributed to EXIT were Robert Williams, Mark Mothersbaugh, Genesis P-Orridge, Joe Coleman, Steven Cerio, Mike Diana, Alex Grey, Richard Kern, Lydia Lunch, Nick Zedd, Raymond Pettibon, Nick Bougas, Boyd Rice, S. Clay Wilson, GG Allin, H.R. Giger, Marilyn Manson, Nikolas Schreck, Zeena LaVey, Jim Blanchard and Jonathan Shaw. Notorious criminals whose artwork appeared in the magazine include John Wayne Gacy, Henry Lee Lucas, Richard Ramirez, James Earl Ray and Ottis Toole.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP]  2000 Bram Stoker Award for Best Screenwriter for Shadow of the Vampire.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP]  He wrote Vampire Junction and a series of related novels and stories. He was president of the Horror Writers Association from 1998 to 2000. His other horror books include the werewolf-Western novel Moon Dance, the zombie-American Civil War novel Darker Angels, and the collections Tagging the Moon: Fairy Tales of L.A. and The Pavilion of Frozen Women. In 1997, he wrote the juvenile vampire novel, The Vampire's Beautiful Daughter. He also wrote and directed the cult horror film The Laughing Dead and co-wrote the Roger Corman-produced Bram Stoker's Burial of the Rats (1995).
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP]  in the New York Times. He worked on the screenplay for Mark of the Vampire starring Bela Lugosi. He also wrote the 19-page treatment that eventually became The Raven, for which he was not credited. A number of other horror films followed, interspersed with more mainstream films including the Oscar-nominated (The Story of G.I. Joe), a John Wayne movie (Lady from Louisiana), and Carefree. His Hollywood career ended in 1969 with a made for TV movie entitled Fear No Evil, for which he wrote the story. It was the first US television “Movie of the Week” and a success in the ratings, spawning a sequel a year later.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP]  Lerner co-wrote (with Daphna Kastner) the 1997 film French Exit, starring Jonathan Silverman and Mädchen Amick.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP] Exit the Vamp  lobby card Exit the Vamp is a lost 1921 American silent comedy film directed by Frank Urson and written by Clara Beranger. The film stars Ethel Clayton, T. Roy Barnes, Fontaine La Rue, Theodore Roberts, William Boyd, and Michael D. Moore. The film was released on November 6, 1921, by Paramount Pictures.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP] Anne Rice  Anne Rice (born Howard Allen Frances O'Brien; October 4, 1941 – December 11, 2021) was an American author of gothic fiction, erotic literature, and Christian literature. She was best known for her series of novels "The Vampire Chronicles". Books from "The Vampire Chronicles" were the subject of two film adaptations—"Interview with the Vampire" (1994) and "Queen of the Damned" (2002).  Born in New Orleans, Rice spent much of her early life in the city before moving to Texas, and later to San Francisco. She was raised in an observant Catholic family but became an agnostic as a young adult. She began her professional writing career with the publication of "Interview with the Vampire" (1976), while living in California, and began writing sequels to the novel in the 1980s. In the mid-2000s, following a publicized return to Catholicism, Rice published the novels "" and "", fictionalized accounts of certain incidents in the life of Jesus. Several years later she distanced herself from organized Christianity, citing disagreement with the Catholic Church's stances on social issues but pledging that faith in God remained "central to [her] life." However, she later considered herself a secular humanist.  Rice's books have sold over 100 million copies, making her one of the best-selling authors of modern times. While reaction to her early works was initially mixed, she gained a better reception with critics in the 1980s. Her writing style and the literary content of her works have been analyzed by literary commentators. She was married to poet and painter Stan Rice for 41 years, from 1961 until his death from brain cancer in 2002 at age 60. She and Stan had two children, Michele, who died of leukemia at age five, and Christopher, who is also an author.  In addition to her vampire novels, Rice authored books such as "The Feast of All Saints" (adapted for television in 2001) and "Servant of the Bones", which formed the basis of a 2011 comic book miniseries. Several books from "The Vampire Chronicles" have been adapted as comics and manga by various publishers. Rice also authored erotic fiction under the pen names Anne Rampling and A. N. Roquelaure, including "Exit to Eden", which was later adapted into a 1994 film.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP] The Little Vampire (film)  The Little Vampire is a 2000 comedy horror film based on the children's book series of the same name by German writer Angela Sommer-Bodenburg, about a boy who tries to save a young vampire and his family from a ruthless vampire hunter. It was directed by Uli Edel and written by Karey Kirkpatrick and Larry Wilson. The film stars Jonathan Lipnicki, Rollo Weeks, Richard E. Grant, Jim Carter and Alice Krige.
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP] Buffy the Vampire Slayer  Buffy the Vampire Slayer is an American supernatural drama television series created by writer and director Joss Whedon. It is based on the 1992 film of the same name, also written by Whedon, although the events of the film are not considered canon to the series. Whedon served as executive producer and showrunner under his production tag Mutant Enemy Productions.  The series premiered on March 10, 1997, on The WB and concluded on May 20, 2003, on UPN. The series narrative follows Buffy Summers (played by Sarah Michelle Gellar), the latest in a line of young women known as "Vampire Slayers", or simply "Slayers". In the story, Slayers, or the "Chosen Ones", are chosen by fate to battle against vampires, demons and other forces of darkness. Buffy wants to live a normal life, but as the series progresses, she learns to embrace her destiny. Like previous Slayers, Buffy is aided by a Watcher, who guides, teaches and trains her. Unlike her predecessors, Buffy surrounds herself with a circle of loyal friends who become known as the "Scooby Gang" – a reference to the animated franchise "Scooby-Doo" that features a group of friends solving mysteries together.  The series received critical and popular acclaim and usually reached between four and six million viewers on original airings. Although such ratings are lower than successful shows on the "big four" networks (ABC, CBS, NBC and Fox), they were a success for the relatively new and smaller WB Television Network. Despite the fact that "Buffy the Vampire Slayer" was almost entirely ignored by major award shows during its run, the series was nominated for the American Film Institute Award for Drama Series of the Year, Gellar was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Television Series Drama for her performance in the show and the series was nominated five times for Television Critics Association Awards, winning once in 2003 for the Television Critics Association Heritage Award.  The success of "Buffy" has led to hundreds of tie-in products, including novels, comics and video games. The series has received attention in fandom (including fan films), parody, and academia, and has influenced the direction of other television series. "Buffy" is considered to be part of a wave of television series from the late 1990s and early 2000s that feature strong female characters, alongside "", "La Femme Nikita", "Dark Angel", and "Alias". The series, as well as its spin-off series, "Angel", and extensions thereof, have been collectively termed the "Buffyverse". A second spin-off of the series was being developed for television, with Monica Owusu-Breen as showrunner, before being shelved in 2022.<ref name="IGNreboot" />
Who was the screenwriter for Exit the Vamp? [SEP] The Vampire Diaries  The Vampire Diaries is an American supernatural teen drama television series developed by Kevin Williamson and Julie Plec, based on the book series of the same name written by L. J. Smith. The series premiered on The CW on September 10, 2009, and concluded on March 10, 2017, having aired 171 episodes over eight seasons.  The pilot episode attracted the largest audience for The CW of any series premiere since the network began in 2006; the first season averaged 3.60 million viewers.<ref name="Season1" /> It became the most-watched series on the network before being supplanted by "Arrow". The show has received numerous award nominations, winning four People's Choice Awards and many Teen Choice Awards.  In April 2015, lead actress Nina Dobrev, who played Elena Gilbert, confirmed that she would be leaving the show after its sixth season. Dobrev returned to record a voiceover for the seventh-season finale and returned as a guest star in the series finale. In March 2016, The CW renewed the series for an eighth season, but in July of that year announced that the eighth season, consisting of 16 episodes, would be the show's last. The final season began airing on October 21, 2016, and ended March 10, 2017.  The concepts and characters developed in the series served to launch a media franchise that includes other television series, web series, novels and comic books. The television series "The Originals" (2013–2018)which also aired on The CWwas the first major entry in this collection of connected works, followed by a spin-off of "The Originals" entitled "Legacies" (2018–2022), which aired on The CW as well.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP]  In June 2016, Anthony Jaswinski was announced to write the script for the film, with Tucker Tooley producing. In September 2017, it was announced Gary Oldman, Emily Mortimer, Owen Teague, Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, Stefanie Scott and Chloe Perrin had joined the cast of the film, with Michael Goi, directing from a screenplay by Anthony Jaswinski. In August 2018, Jennifer Esposito joined the cast of the film.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Scriptwriter: 1997 - 1999 Scriptwriter: 1997 Screenwriter: 1999 - December 24, 2007; March 14, 2008 - September 9, 2012) Another World As the World Turns General Hospital (hired by Robert Guza Jr.)
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP]  to ski: she broke her ankle and, bored, Hemingway began the draft of the book. Hemingway himself then became ill with an eye infection and was hospitalized. In the spring he went to Venice where he ate lunch with Adriana a few times. In May he returned to Cuba and carried out a protracted correspondence with her while working on the manuscript. In the autumn he had returned to Europe and he finished the draft at the Ritz in Paris. Once done, he and Mary went again to Cortina to ski: for the second time she broke her ankle and he contracted an eye infection. By February the
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] The Doctors (1963 – head writer) ; Dark Shadows (1966–67 – 82 episodes) ; Peyton Place (1968 – 15 episodes) ; Night Gallery (1971 – 1 episode) ; S*P*Y*S (1974 – screenplay) ; Mary, Mary, Bloody Mary (1975 – screenplay) ; Whiffs (1975 – screenplay) ; Pete's Dragon (1977 – screenplay) ; Return from Witch Mountain (1978 – screenplay) ; Poochie (TV film) (1984 – teleplay) ; Rose Petal Place (TV special) (1984 – teleplay) ; Rose Petal Place: Real Friends (TV film) (1985 – teleplay) ; Konrad (TV film) (1985 – teleplay) ; CBS Storybreak (1985–87 – 2 episodes) ; ABC Weekend Special (1984–88 – 9 episodes) ; The Witching of Ben Wagner (TV film) (1990 – teleplay) ; Dead Men Don't Die (1991 – screenplay and director) ; Love Bites (1993 – screenplay and director)
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP]  (about evangelist Marjoe Gortner), which won an Academy Award for Documentary Feature. Kernochan's first screen credit as a screenwriter came with the 1986 film 9½ Weeks. She followed that film with the script for Dancers (1987), starring Mikhail Baryshnikov and directed by Herbert Ross, which chronicled the backstage drama of a ballet company (played by American Ballet Theatre dancers) and their director during the staging of the ballet Giselle. By the time she was brought in to work on the 1993 film Sommersby, she had become known for a particular style of writing in Hollywood. She commented in an interview with Salon.com: Since then, she has been primarily a screenwriter for such films as Dancers (1987);
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Mary's Ankle  Mary's Ankle is a 1920 American silent comedy film directed by Lloyd Ingraham and written by Luther Reed based upon the play of the same name by May Tully. The film stars Douglas MacLean, Doris May, Victor Potel, Neal Burns, James Gordon, and Lizette Thorne. The film was released on February 29, 1920, by Paramount Pictures.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Luther Reed  Luther A. Reed (July 14, 1888 – November 16, 1961) was an American screenwriter and film director.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Neal Burns  Neal Burns (June 26, 1892 – October 3, 1969) was an American film actor, screenwriter, and director. He appeared in more than 200 films between 1915 and 1946.  Burns was born in Bristol, Pennsylvania and attended public schools in Atlantic City. He died in Los Angeles, California. He was the younger brother of fellow actor Eddie Barry.   Burns's work on stage included acting with the Gaiety Company at the Morosco Theater in Los Angeles in 1914.  In 1918, Burns was a drill sergeant in the Army at Camp Lewis.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Mr. Yin Presents...  "Mr. Yin Presents..." is the sixteenth and final episode of the Fourth season of "Psych", and the 63rd episode in the series overall. It premiered on March 10, 2010 on USA Network in the United States. The episode serves as the season 4 finale and is the sequel to the third season's finale, "An Evening with Mr. Yang". It is an important installment in one of the series' few story arcs. A third and final installment of the Yin/Yang series, entitled "Yang 3 in 2D", aired as the fifth season finale.
Who was the screenwriter for Mary's Ankle? [SEP] Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut  "Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut" is a short story by J. D. Salinger, which appears in his collection "Nine Stories". It was originally published in the March 20, 1948 issue of "The New Yorker".  The main character, Eloise, struggles to come to terms with the life she has created for herself with her husband Lew. Her true love is the late Walt, who died during his service in the army.  The story's title refers to an event recalled by Eloise in which she and Walt were running to catch a bus, and she sprained her ankle. Walt then said, referring to her ankle in good humor, "Poor Uncle Wiggily...".  The 1949 film "My Foolish Heart", based on this story, remains the only authorized adaptation of Salinger's writings into film. Except for a framing story, the picture bears little resemblance to the original.  Although Walt's surname and background are not discussed in the story, Salinger would later reveal that Walt is a member of the Glass family and brother of Seymour Glass, the protagonist of Salinger's previous story "A Perfect Day for Bananafish". Later works by Salinger would elaborate upon the character of Walt Glass from the perspectives of his siblings.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP]  "Democracy" marked the return of Oswald Kittner. Originally a one-time role, fans and executive producer Cheryl Heuton enjoyed having Jay Baruchel's performance as Oswald Kittner on the show. As a result of fans' request for a return appearance of Kittner, writers wrote "Democracy" and decided to feature Kittner.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP]  "Democracy" is the 18th episode of the third season of the American television show Numbers. Written by Cheryl Heuton and Nicolas Falacci, the episode highlights a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigation into the murder of one of their math consultant's friends while an agent learns that she has been selected for a United States Department of Justice (DOJ) assignment. Heuton and Falacci also brought back fan favorite Oswald Kittner, portrayed by Jay Baruchel. The episode marks series regular Diane Farr's final appearance before delivering her baby. Her pregnancy during season three presented writers and producers with the challenge of deciding whether to include a pregnancy into the season's storyline. They decided against it and opted to hide her pregnancy. While filming "Democracy", Farr had her baby. "Democracy" first aired in the United States on March 9, 2007. Critics gave the episode positive reviews.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP]  Using The Movies, Alex Chan, a French resident with no previous filmmaking experience, took four days to create The French Democracy, a short machinima political film about the 2005 civil unrest in France.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP]  "Democracy" marks the temporary exit of Diane Farr. During the start of season three, series regular Diane Farr learned that she was pregnant. The series' writers and producers discussed whether to include the pregnancy in the storyline for the season. At the time, series writers and producers planned for Larry to romance Megan during season three. They decided against a story involving pregnancy, feeling that it was too early in Larry and Megan's relationship to discuss pregnancy. They also felt that it was too early in the series to explore working mothers in the FBI. Furthermore, series regular Peter MacNicol's temporary departure for 24 complicated the storyline even further, as the potential father would be absent for part of a season.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP]  Democracy is a play by Michael Frayn which premiered in London at the Royal National Theatre on September 9, 2003. Directed by Michael Blakemore, and starring Roger Allam as Willy Brandt and Conleth Hill as Günter Guillaume, it won the Evening Standard and Critics' Circle awards for Best Play. Democracy premiered on Broadway at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre on November 18, 2004, and ran for 173 performances. It was nominated for the Tony Award and Drama Desk Award as Best Play. It has also been staged in Copenhagen, Oslo, Stockholm, Helsinki (2005), Wellington, Vancouver, Toronto and Moscow (2016). A revival of the play, directed by Paul Miller at Sheffield's Crucible Theatre, transferred to London's Old Vic Theatre in 2012. The play, based on actual events, deals with the decision West German chancellor Willy Brandt had to make about exposing the Communist spy Günter Guillaume who worked as his secretary and had heard some of the state's most important secrets.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP] Robert G. Berschinski  Robert G. (Rob) Berschinski is currently the Special Assistant to the President and National Security Council Senior Director for Democracy and Human Rights at the National Security Council. He previously served as the Senior Vice President for Policy at Human Rights First where he oversees the organization's work advancing a U.S. foreign policy rooted in a strong commitment to human rights, universal values, and American ideals. He is also a Visiting Scholar at NYU's Program in International Relations. Previously Berschinski served in the Obama Administration as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) at the U.S. Department of State, and was responsible for DRL's work in Europe, Russia, and South and Central Asia. He is a former U.S. Air Force officer and director for Security and Human Rights Policy at the U.S. National Security Council.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP] Arshad Hasan  Arshad Hasan was the executive director of ProgressNow. He was previously executive director for Democracy for America.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP] Bob Hall (American political journalist)  Bob Hall was the Executive Director of Democracy North Carolina.
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP] George Orwell  Eric Arthur Blair (25 June 1903 – 21 January 1950), better known by his pen name George Orwell, was an English novelist, essayist, journalist, and critic. His work is characterised by lucid prose, social criticism, opposition to totalitarianism, and support of democratic socialism.  Orwell produced literary criticism, poetry, fiction and polemical journalism. He is known for the allegorical novella "Animal Farm" (1945) and the dystopian novel "Nineteen Eighty-Four" (1949). His non-fiction works, including "The Road to Wigan Pier" (1937), documenting his experience of working-class life in the industrial north of England, and "Homage to Catalonia" (1938), an account of his experiences soldiering for the Republican faction of the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), are as critically respected as his essays on politics, literature, language and culture.  Blair was born in India, and raised and educated in England. After school he became an Imperial policeman in Burma, before returning to Suffolk, England, where he began his writing career as George Orwell—a name inspired by a favourite location, the River Orwell. He lived from occasional pieces of journalism, and also worked as a teacher or bookseller whilst living in London. From the late 1920s to the early 1930s, his success as a writer grew and his first books were published. He was wounded fighting in the Spanish Civil War, leading to his first period of ill health on return to England. During the Second World War he worked as a journalist and for the BBC. The publication of "Animal Farm" led to fame during his lifetime. During the final years of his life he worked on "Nineteen Eighty-Four", and moved between Jura in Scotland and London. It was published in June 1949, less than a year before his death.  Orwell's work remains influential in popular culture and in political culture, and the adjective "Orwellian"—describing totalitarian and authoritarian social practices—is part of the English language, like many of his neologisms, such as "Big Brother", "Thought Police", "Room 101", "Newspeak", "memory hole", "doublethink", and "thoughtcrime". In 2008, "The Times" ranked George Orwell second among "The 50 greatest British writers since 1945".
Who was the screenwriter for Democracy? [SEP] Elliott Abrams  Elliott Abrams (born January 24, 1948) is an American politician and lawyer, who has served in foreign policy positions for presidents Ronald Reagan, George W. Bush, and Donald Trump. Abrams is considered to be a neoconservative. He served as the U.S. Special Representative for Venezuela from 2019 to 2021 and as the U.S. Special Representative for Iran from 2020 to 2021.  His involvement in the Iran-Contra scandal during the Reagan administration led to his conviction in 1991 on two misdemeanor counts of unlawfully withholding information from Congress.<ref name=":2"/> He was later pardoned by president George H. W. Bush.  During George W. Bush's first term, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director on the National Security Council for Near East and North African Affairs. At the start of Bush's second term, Abrams was promoted to be his Deputy National Security Advisor for Global Democracy Strategy, in charge of promoting Bush's strategy of "advancing democracy abroad." In the Bush administration, Abrams was a supporter of the Iraq War.  On January 25, 2019, he was appointed as Special Representative for Venezuela. On September 1, 2020, he was further appointed to concurrently serve as the U.S. Special Representative for Iran.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP]  The story was adapted into an episode of 1995 television series The Outer Limits. Brad Wright wrote the teleplay, and Steven Weber directed. In July 2020, Deadline Hollywood announced that The CW is adapting the story into a one-hour drama series titled Revelations.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP]  Revelations is an American apocalyptic drama television miniseries created by David Seltzer and based on the Book of Revelation. The series follows two central characters, an astrophysicist (Bill Pullman) and a nun (Natascha McElhone), in a race against time to see if the end of the world can be averted. It also stars Michael Massee, Mark Rendall, Chelsey Coyle, Brittney Coyle, John Rhys-Davies, Orla Brady, Alexa Nikolas, Tobin Bell, Martin Starr, Fred Durst, and Caryn Green.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP]  Erik also authored a literary fiction novel The Revelations, a mystery set at New York University concerning a fictional scholarship program that brings together eight young consciousness researchers, one of whom is murdered. Publishers Weekly called it "a dizzying, impressive debut".
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP]  Revelations Entertainment is an independent movie production company founded by actor Morgan Freeman and business partner Lori McCreary in 1996. Its mission statement, to "reveal truth," drives to company produce thought-provoking entertainment with artistic integrity and "soul." In 2006, Revelations became the first film production company in history to distribute a film (10 Items or Less) online while the movie was still playing in theaters. This was achieved by using ClickStar (also founded by Freeman and McCreary as a joint venture with Intel Corporation) as their online distribution site.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP]   "Revelations" was written by Kim Newton and directed by David Nutter, his final episode of The X-Files. Nutter decided that, after the episode, he wished to pursue different things and that the series was in excellent hands with fellow directors Rob Bowman and Kim Manners. Actor Kenneth Welsh, who appears in the episode as the demonic Simon Gates, had previously portrayed a chief antagonist in the critically acclaimed 1990 serial drama Twin Peaks, alongside Duchovny. The episode contains a role reversal with Dana Scully the believer and Fox Mulder the skeptic, which David Duchovny called "a refreshing change of pace." Nutter believed that by examining faith, the show's creators were able to explore the nuances and seeming contradictions of Scully and her worldview. The episode was
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP] Book of Revelation  The Book of Revelation is the final book of the New Testament (and consequently the final book of the Christian Bible). Its title is derived from the first word of the Koine Greek text: , meaning "unveiling" or "revelation". The Book of Revelation is the only apocalyptic book in the New Testament canon. It occupies a central place in Christian eschatology.  The author names himself as simply "John" in the text, but his precise identity remains a point of academic debate. Second-century Christian writers such as Papias of Hierapolis, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Melito of Sardis, Clement of Alexandria, and the author of the Muratorian fragment identify John the Apostle as the "John" of Revelation. Modern scholarship generally takes a different view, with many considering that nothing can be known about the author except that he was a Christian prophet. Modern theological scholars characterize the Book of Revelation's author as "John of Patmos". The bulk of traditional sources date the book to the reign of the Roman emperor Domitian (AD 81–96), which evidence tends to confirm.  The book spans three literary genres: the epistolary, the apocalyptic, and the prophetic. It begins with John, on the island of Patmos in the Aegean Sea, addressing a letter to the "Seven Churches of Asia". He then describes a series of prophetic visions, including figures such as the Seven-Headed Dragon, the Serpent, and the Beast, which culminate in the Second Coming of Jesus.  The obscure and extravagant imagery has led to a wide variety of Christian interpretations. Historicist interpretations see Revelation as containing a broad view of history while preterist interpretations treat Revelation as mostly referring to the events of the Apostolic Age (1st century), or, at the latest, the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century. Futurists, meanwhile, believe that Revelation describes future events with the seven churches growing into the body of believers throughout the age, and a reemergence or continuous rule of a Greco-Roman system with modern capabilities described by John in ways familiar to him; and idealist or symbolic interpretations consider that Revelation does not refer to actual people or events but is an allegory of the spiritual path and the ongoing struggle between good and evil.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP] John of Patmos  John of Patmos (also called John the Revelator, John the Divine, John the Theologian) is the name traditionally given to the author of the Book of Revelation. The text of Revelation states that John was on Patmos, a Greek island where, according to most biblical historians, he was exiled as a result of anti-Christian persecution under the Roman emperor Domitian.  Christian tradition has considered the Book of Revelation's writer to be John the Evangelist (himself identified as John the Apostle), purported author of the Gospel of John. A minority of senior clerics and scholars, such as Eusebius (d. 339/340), recognize at least one further John as a companion of Jesus, John the Presbyter. Some Christian scholars since medieval times separate the disciple from the writer of Revelation.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP] Revelations: Persona  Revelations: Persona is a 1996 role-playing video game developed and published by Atlus. It is the first entry in the "Persona" series, itself a subseries of the "Megami Tensei" franchise, and the first role-playing entry in the series to be released in the west. Originally released for the PlayStation in 1996 in Japan and North America, the title was ported to Microsoft Windows in 1999. A port to the PlayStation Portable retitled Shin Megami Tensei: Persona was released in North America and Japan in 2009, and the following year in Europe. This port featured new cutscenes and a reworked English localization that was more faithful to the original Japanese release. The PlayStation version was also released for the PlayStation Classic on December 3, 2018 worldwide, marking the PlayStation version being released in Europe for the first time.  The story focuses on a group of high school students as they are confronted by a series of supernatural incidents. After playing a fortune-telling game, the group each gain the ability to summon Personas, the multiple selves within them. Using this power under the guidance of Philemon, a benevolent being representing humanity's subconscious, the group face off against multiple forces that threaten the world. Gameplay revolves around the characters navigating environments around their town and fighting enemies using their Personas. During the course of the game, the player can create new Personas for battle using spell cards gained in battle or by talking with enemies.  "Persona" began development after the release of "Shin Megami Tensei If...", with the idea of creating a subseries around the positively received high school setting of "If...". Multiple staff members from previous "Megami Tensei" titles were involved in development, including character designer Kazuma Kaneko, and director Kouji Okada. Multiple aspects of the story, including Personas and the character Philemon, were taken from Jungian psychology, while Kaneko's character designs were based on both staff members, and celebrities and fictional characters of the time. Reception to the game has generally been positive, with most praising its approach to the genre, while its navigation and localization were criticized. Its PSP port shared most points of praise with the original, along with the improved localization, but also drew negative comments for its by-then dated mechanics and graphics.
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP] Hellraiser: Revelations  Hellraiser: Revelations is a 2011 horror film written by Gary J. Tunnicliffe and directed by Víctor Garcia. It is the ninth film in the "Hellraiser" film series. It follows the fates of two friends who discover a puzzle box that opens a gateway to a realm inhabited by sadomasochistic monsters known as the Cenobites.  The film was produced in a matter of weeks, due to an obligation on Dimension Films' part to release another "Hellraiser" film or risk losing the rights to the film series. Due to the quick turnaround time and the rushed production, series star Doug Bradley declined to participate, making this the first entry in the series in which he does not play Pinhead. It was released in a single theater for a crew screening that was ostensibly open to the public, then released to DVD in October 2011.<ref name="Bloody-Disgusting.com"/>
Who was the screenwriter for Revelations? [SEP] Darby McDevitt  Darby Christopher McDevitt is an Irish-American game developer and writer, best known for his work on the "Assassin's Creed" series.  With a diverse professional profile spanning more than a decade, he has worked as a writer, film maker, musician, and game designer. As an employee of Ubisoft, McDevitt has been the script writer for both the story and dialogue in "", "", "" and "Assassin's Creed Unity", as well as was the lead writer for "" and "". In 2014, Darby was nominated for a Writers Guild of America Award for his work on "Black Flag". Darby is also recognized as a spokesperson for Ubisoft in regards to the "Assassin's Creed" franchise.  In March 2021, Darby left Ubisoft, but returned in November.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP]  happy ending of the original script, wanting instead a more bittersweet and ambivalent ending comment on the American success ethic. With Riskin on vacation in Europe and unavailable, Capra invited former Paramount screenwriter Sidney Buchman to Palo Alto to discuss changes to the end of the film. By the end of the evening, Buchman wrote four pages of new scenes depicting the horse's death after crossing the finish line, the subsequent funeral, and new ending. Buchman, who finished the new scenes only a few hours before the final race scene was filmed, was never credited for his contribution. He would later write the screenplay for Capra's Mr. Smith Goes to Washington (1939).
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP]  He was a film critic for Newsweek magazine from 1967 to 1975, and also wrote for television shows including Sesame Street, but is best known for writing The King of Comedy (1982), directed by Martin Scorsese. He was also the co-writer of Lovers and Liars (1979) and Consuming Passions (1988) Zimmerman was the author of many other screenplays, mostly unproduced, as well as the books The Open Man, The Year the Mets Lost Last Place and The Marx Brothers at the Movies (1968). Active in the Nuclear Freeze movement, he managed to become a member of the Pennsylvania delegation to the Republican Party convention in 1984 in order to be the only person to vote against Ronald Reagan. Zimmerman died of colon cancer.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP]  and featured three different endings; however, the novelization was based on the shooting script and includes an additional fourth ending that was cut from the film. He also contributed screenplays to a number of television horror anthologies, including Tales from the Darkside. McDowell was one of seventeen contemporary British and American horror writers interviewed by Douglas E. Winter in his 1985 interview book Faces of Fear. Of his writing, McDowell says in this book: "I am a commercial writer and I'm proud of that. I am writing things to be put in the bookstore next month. I think it is a mistake to try to write for the ages." Stephen King described McDowell as "the finest writer of paperback originals in America today".
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP]  The series' creators completed the first draft of the hour-long finale in January 2004, four months prior to its airing on May 6. Before writing the episode, David Crane, Marta Kauffman and Kevin S. Bright decided to watch the series finales of other sitcoms, paying attention to what worked and what did not. Kauffman found that they liked the ones which stayed true to the series, and they found the finale of The Mary Tyler Moore Show to be the gold standard. The writers had difficulty writing the finale, and spent several days thinking about the final scene without being
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP]  Seven of the eight scripts are based on various separate scripts, contributed by the audience. Based on these contributions, Paul Verhoeven and Robert Alberdingk Thijm composed a script each time, which formed the basis for the next script. In total 85 participants contributed to the final scripts. Several recurring contributors are mentioned below. The teams could write their own ending. The winning screenplay was written by Stephan Brenninkmeijer and Fleur Jansen.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP] I'm Thinking of Ending Things  I'm Thinking of Ending Things (stylized as i'm thinking "of" ending things) is a 2020 American surrealist psychological thriller film written and directed by Charlie Kaufman. It is an adaptation of the 2016 novel of the same name by Iain Reid. The plot follows a young woman (Jessie Buckley) who goes on a trip with her boyfriend (Jesse Plemons) to meet his parents (Toni Collette and David Thewlis). Throughout the film, the main narrative is intercut with footage of a janitor (Guy Boyd) going to work, with both stories intersecting by the third act.  "I'm Thinking of Ending Things" was released in select theaters on August 28, 2020, and on Netflix on September 4, 2020. It received positive reviews from critics, who praised the two lead performances and the cinematography.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP] Happy Ending (film)  Happy Ending is a 2014 Indian Hindi-language romantic comedy film written and directed by Raj Nidimoru and Krishna D.K. The film is produced by Saif Ali Khan, Dinesh Vijan and Sunil Lulla under Illuminati Films and stars Khan, Ileana D'Cruz and Govinda in the lead roles. The theatrical trailer launched on 10 October 2014.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP] The End of the Tour  The End of the Tour is a 2015 American drama film about writer David Foster Wallace. The film stars Jason Segel and Jesse Eisenberg, was written by Donald Margulies, and was directed by James Ponsoldt. Based on David Lipsky's best-selling memoir "Although of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself", screenwriter Margulies first read the book in 2011, and sent it to Ponsoldt, a former student of his, who took on the job of director. Filming took place in early 2014 in Michigan, with scenes also shot at the Mall of America. Danny Elfman provided the score, with the soundtrack featuring songs by musicians like R.E.M. and Brian Eno, whose inclusion was based on the kind of music Wallace and Lipsky listened to.  The film debuted at the 2015 Sundance Film Festival, and was theatrically released on July 31, 2015, by A24 to critical acclaim, particularly for the performance of Segel. He received Best Actor nominations from various awards groups, including the Independent Spirit Award for Best Male Lead.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP] The Ghost Writer (film)  The Ghost Writer (released as The Ghost in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is a 2010 neo-noir political thriller film directed by Roman Polanski. The film is an adaptation of a 2007 Robert Harris novel, "The Ghost", with the screenplay written by Polanski and Harris. It stars Ewan McGregor, Pierce Brosnan, Kim Cattrall, and Olivia Williams.  The film was a critical and commercial success and won numerous cinematic awards including Best Director for Polanski at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival and also at the 23rd European Film Awards in 2010.
Who was the screenwriter for Ending It? [SEP] Hollywood Ending  Hollywood Ending is a 2002 American comedy film written and directed by Woody Allen, who also plays the principal character. It tells the story of a once-famous film director who suffers hysterical blindness due to the intense pressure of directing.
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP]  Robert Klane (born 1941) is an American screenwriter, novelist and filmmaker, best known for early iconoclastic novels and for his screenplays for dark comedies such as Where's Poppa? (1970) and Weekend at Bernie's (1989).
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP] Where's Poppa? (1970) - wrote screenplay based on his novel ; Every Little Crook and Nanny (1972) - co-wrote screenplay ; Fire Sale (1977) - wrote screenplay based on his novel ; Thank God It's Friday (1978) - directed ; Unfaithfully Yours (1984) - co-wrote screenplay ; The Man with One Red Shoe (1985) - wrote screenplay ; National Lampoon's European Vacation (1985) - co-wrote screenplay ; Walk Like a Man - wrote screenplay ; Weekend at Bernie's (1989) - wrote screenplay ; Folks! (1992) - wrote screenplay ; Weekend at Bernie's II (1993) - wrote screenplay and directed
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP]  A 1963 graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Klane first rose to prominence with his debut novel, the acerbic comedy The Horse is Dead (1968). His second novel, Where's Poppa? (1970), was adapted by Klane into a feature film directed by Carl Reiner and starring George Segal. For his screenplay, Klane received a Writers Guild of America Award nomination. His third novel was also adapted into a feature film, Fire Sale (1977), starring Alan Arkin. Klane went on to write screenplays for various films such as The Man with One Red Shoe (1985), National Lampoon's European Vacation (1985), and Weekend at Bernie's. He also directed several films including Thank God It's Friday (1978) and Weekend at Bernie's II (1993). Additionally, he wrote for several television shows including M*A*S*H and Tracey Takes On....
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP]  Love, Honor and Behave (1938), co-writer ; Jezebel (1938), co-writer, for which Bette Davis received the Academy Award for Best Actress and Fay Bainter for Best Supporting Actress. It was also made into an episode of the same name of the TV series Lux Video Theatre in 1956, for which he wrote the screenplay. ; Pioneer Woman (1940) ; Buffalo Bill (1944) with Joel McCrea, Maureen O'Hara and Anthony Quinn ; Old Los Angeles (1948) (screenplay and story)
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP]  Philip Rapp (March 26, 1907 – January 23, 1996) was a film and television director and screenwriter. He wrote for Eddie Cantor and for a brief period, wrote film scripts for Danny Kaye. Rapp is perhaps best known as the creator of Baby Snooks and The Bickersons. He died on January 23, 1996 in Beverly Hills, California. Rapp was a writer, director and producer and he directed popular long running radio series called The Batting Bickersons. He also introduced the Baby Snooks character for Fanny Brice of the Ziegfeld Follies. Topper (1953) is also directed by Rapp.
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP] Waldemar Bergendahl  Waldemar Bergendahl (18 April 1933 – 21 March 2022) was a Swedish film director, film editor, film producer, cinematographer and screenwriter. Bergendahl is best known as the producer behind the films based on novels by Astrid Lindgren.
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP] List of adaptations of works by Astrid Lindgren  This is a list of media based on work by Astrid Lindgren.
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP] 1965 in animation  Events in 1965 in animation.
Who was the screenwriter for Hoppa högst? [SEP] Ali Payami  Ali Payami is an Persian-Swedish record producer, songwriter, and DJ.<ref name=":billboard2017" />  Payami's first number one hit on the Billboard Hot 100 was The Weeknd's single "Can't Feel My Face". In 2016, he won a Grammy for Album of the Year for his contributions on Taylor Swift's album "1989". He has also worked with other musicians such as Demi Lovato, Ariana Grande, Ellie Goulding and Katy Perry.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  Arvidson wrote screenplays, including the one for the five-reel Who's Guilty Now? She was an associate editor of Film Fun and a film critic for Leslie's Magazine, and she wrote the book When the Movies Were Young.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The episode was written by series executive producer and showrunner Howard Gordon and consulting producer Evan Katz, and was directed by Jeffrey Reiner. It marked both Gordon and Katz's first writing credit in the series, and director Reiner's second directing credit, with the last episode he directed being "The Little Guy", the second episode aired on March 8, 2012. This is the first episode that was not written by series creator and executive producer Kyle Killen.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The Guilty is a 2000 American crime film directed by Anthony Waller and starring Bill Pullman, Devon Sawa, Gabrielle Anwar, Angela Featherstone and Joanne Whalley. The film is a remake of the 1992 UK TV two-part telemovie of the same name and identical plot starring Michael Kitchen, Sean Gallagher, Caroline Catz and Carol Starks.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The Guilty is a 1947 film noir directed by John Reinhardt, based on Cornell Woolrich's short story "Two Men in a Furnished Room". The film was produced by oil millionaire Jack Wrather, the husband of lead actress Bonita Granville.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The episode was written by Nikki Toscano, while being directed by CSI: Crime Scene Investigation veteran Kenneth Fink.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty by Suspicion  Guilty by Suspicion is a 1991 American drama film about the Hollywood blacklist, McCarthyism, and the activities of the House Un-American Activities Committee. Written and directed by Irwin Winkler, it stars Robert De Niro, Annette Bening, and George Wendt. The character of David Merrill was inspired by the experiences of John Berry during the Hollywood blacklist era.  The film was entered into the 1991 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty Gear Strive  "Guilty Gear Strive" received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its visuals, gameplay and netcode, and has sold over one million units as of August 2022.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilt (British TV series)  Guilt is a Scottish thriller and mystery series, which was the first drama commission of the new BBC Scotland channel and first broadcast there before being broadcast on BBC Two. Written and created by Neil Forsyth, the show initially centres on two brothers, played by Mark Bonnar and Jamie Sives, who get involved in a hit and run, before involving a large number of cast in an ongoing story. The first series of "Guilt" was broadcast in 2019, and the second series broadcast in the autumn of 2021. The show was a critical hit and was subsequently broadcast around the world including in America (PBS), France (Arte), Australia (BBC First), Sweden (Sveriges Television), Germany (Arte), Portugal (RTP2) and South Africa (Showmax).
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] The Guilt Trip (film)  The Guilt Trip is a 2012 American road comedy film directed by Anne Fletcher from a screenplay written by Dan Fogelman, starring Barbra Streisand and Seth Rogen, who both also served as executive producers on the film. The film was released on December 19, 2012, received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $41 million on a production budget of $40 million.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty Conscience (song)  "Guilty Conscience" is a song by American rapper Eminem, featuring American hip hop producer Dr. Dre. It was released as the third and final single from Eminem's "The Slim Shady LP" (1999). It was also released on his 2005 greatest hits album "".
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP]  The Salvation is a 2014 Danish Western film directed by Kristian Levring and written by Anders Thomas Jensen and Levring. The film stars Mads Mikkelsen, Eva Green, Jeffrey Dean Morgan, Jonathan Pryce, Eric Cantona, Mikael Persbrandt, Douglas Henshall and Michael Raymond-James.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP]  Salvation is a 2008 Australian film directed by Paul Cox and starring Wendy Hughes and Bruce Myles. Cox was inspired to make the film after seeing a televangelist on TV late at night asking for money for a facelift.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP]  Salvation Boulevard is a 2011 comedy thriller film with religious satire undertones directed by George Ratliff and starring Pierce Brosnan, Jennifer Connelly, Ed Harris, Greg Kinnear, Marisa Tomei, and Jim Gaffigan. It is based on the novel of the same name by Larry Beinhart.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP]  Salvation! (also known as Salvation!: Have You Said Your Prayers Today?) is a 1987 American black comedy film directed by Beth B, and starring Viggo Mortensen, Exene Cervenka, and Stephen McHattie. The film is a parody of televangelism, and was released right after the real-life Jim Bakker and Jimmy Swaggart scandals. The film was released on VHS, but not as yet on DVD.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP]  David Campbell Wilson is an American screenwriter, probably best known for creating The Perfect Weapon and Supernova. He also credited for the screenplay of Terminator Salvation in early promotional material, but not for the final cut of the film. Mr. Wilson has worked with many directors, among them Francis Ford Coppola, John McTiernan, and Walter Hill. Most recently, he wrote the screen story for Guy Ritchie's adaptation of The Man from U.N.C.L.E..
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP] Salvation (TV series)  Salvation is an American suspense drama television series, that premiered on July 12, 2017. The series was originally announced as being developed in September 2013, but received its straight-to-series 13-episode order in October 2016. On October 18, 2017, CBS renewed the series for a 13-episode second season, which premiered on June 25, 2018. On November 20, 2018, CBS canceled the series after two seasons.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP] Terminator Salvation  Terminator Salvation is a 2009 American military science fiction action film directed by McG and written by John Brancato and Michael Ferris. It is the fourth installment of the "Terminator" franchise, serving as sequel to "" (2003), but also as a "soft reboot". This is the first and only "Terminator" film to date not to feature Arnold Schwarzenegger, though his likeness briefly appears digitally. Instead, it stars Christian Bale and Sam Worthington with Anton Yelchin, Moon Bloodgood, Bryce Dallas Howard, Common, Michael Ironside and Helena Bonham Carter in supporting roles. In a departure from the previous installments, "Salvation" is a post-apocalyptic film set in the year 2018. It focuses on the war between Skynet's machine network and humanity, as the remnants of the world's militaries have united to form the Resistance to fight against Skynet. Bale portrays John Connor, a Resistance fighter and central character, while Worthington portrays cyborg Marcus Wright. Yelchin plays a young Kyle Reese, a character first introduced in "The Terminator" (1984), and the film depicts the origins of the T-800 Terminator. After troubled pre-production, with the Halcyon Company acquiring the rights from Andrew G. Vajna and Mario Kassar, and several writers working on the screenplay, filming began in May 2008 in New Mexico, and ran for 77 days.   "Terminator Salvation" was released on May 21, 2009, by Warner Bros. Pictures in North America and by Sony Pictures Releasing, under their Columbia Pictures banner, internationally, and grossed over $371 million worldwide and received mixed reviews. Intended to be the first installment of a second "Terminator" trilogy, these plans were canceled following the Halcyon Company filing for bankruptcy after the film came out. The franchise rights were sold in 2012 to Annapurna Pictures, resulting in "Terminator Genisys" (a reboot of the series) being released in 2015 with Schwarzenegger reprising his role.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP] McG  Joseph McGinty Nichol (born August 9, 1968), known professionally as McG, is an American director, producer, and former record producer.  McG began his career in the music industry, directing music videos and producing various albums. He later rose to prominence with his debut theatrically released narrative feature, "Charlie's Angels", which had the highest-grossing opening weekend for a directorial debut at the time. Since then, he has directed several other films, including "Terminator Salvation", "This Means War", and "The Babysitter". On television, McG co-created "Fastlane" with John McNamara and executive produced "The O.C.", "Supernatural", and "Chuck".  McG also owns a production company, Wonderland Sound and Vision, founded in 2001, which has overseen the production of the films and television shows he has worked on since "".
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP] Terminator (franchise)  Terminator is an American media franchise created by James Cameron. The franchise encompasses a series of science fiction action films, comics, novels and additional media, concerning a total war between Skynet's synthetic intelligence – a self-aware military machine network – and John Connor's Resistance forces comprising the survivors of the human race. Skynet's most famous products in its genocidal goals are the various terminator models, such as the T-800, who was portrayed by Arnold Schwarzenegger from the original "Terminator" film in 1984. By 2010, the franchise had generated $3 billion in revenue.
Who was the screenwriter for Salvation? [SEP] Bale Out  "Bale Out: RevoLucian's Christian Bale Remix!" is a satirical dance remix by American composer Lucian Piane, also known as RevoLucian, released on February 2, 2009, to YouTube and Myspace. The piece parodies Christian Bale by utilizing audio from a July 2008 rant made by the actor on the set of "Terminator Salvation". Various other elements are used in the remix, including pulsating dance track beats and clips of Barbra Streisand from a 2006 exchange with a supporter of then-President George W. Bush, creating the impression of Streisand arguing with Bale.  The day after its release, the YouTube page for the song had been viewed over 200,000 times, and over a million times by February 5, 2009. The Associated Press called it a "hypnotic dance track",<ref name="lang" /> and United Press International noted it was "catchy", characterizing it as a "YouTube sensation".<ref name="upi" /> Gil Kaufman of MTV.com described the piece as "a techno-ripping, demonic dance party".<ref name="gilkaufman" /> "Time" magazine's website called the track "hilarious",<ref name="time" /> and "Nine News" characterized it as a "raging online success".<ref name="ninemsn" /> The director of "Terminator Salvation" McG liked the remix and put a copy of it on his iPod,<ref name="grierson" /><ref name="borden" /> and Bale said he had heard the remix and thought "they did a good job".<ref name="kennedy" /><ref name="gq" />
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP]  The Last Word is an offbeat romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Geoffrey Haley. It stars Winona Ryder and Wes Bentley. It had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January, and had a wider release in 2008.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP]  The Last Word is a 1979 film starring Richard Harris. It was the last movie directed by Roy Boulting. It was also known as The Number.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] Richard Harris as Danny Travis ; Karen Black as Paula Herbert ; Martin Landau as Capt. Gerrity ; Dennis Christopher as Ben ; Christopher Guest as Roger ; Penelope Milford as Denise
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP]  Last Words is a 2020 internationally co-produced drama film directed by Jonathan Nossiter. It was selected to be shown at the 2020 Cannes Film Festival. It premiered at the Deauville American Film Festival on 6 September 2020.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP]  An odd-but-gifted poet, Evan Merck (Wes Bentley) makes his living writing suicide notes for the soon-to-be departed. So when he meets Charlotte (Winona Ryder), the free-spirited sister of his latest client, Evan has no choice but to lie about his relationship to her late, lamented brother. Curiously attracted by his evasive charms, a smitten Charlotte begins her pursuit, forcing Evan to juggle an amorous new girlfriend, a sarcastic new client (Ray Romano) and an ever-increasing mountain of lies.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (2017 film)  The Last Word is a 2017 American comedy-drama film directed by Mark Pellington, from a screenplay by Stuart Ross Fink. It stars Amanda Seyfried and Shirley MacLaine.  "The Last Word" premiered at the 2017 Sundance Film Festival on January 24, 2017. It was released on March 3, 2017, by Bleecker Street.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (2008 film)  The Last Word is an offbeat romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Geoffrey Haley. It stars Winona Ryder and Wes Bentley. It had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival in January, and it had a wider release in 2008.
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] Lawrence O'Donnell  Lawrence Francis O'Donnell Jr. (born November 7, 1951) is an American television anchor, actor, liberal political commentator, and host of "The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell", an MSNBC opinion and news program that airs on weeknights.  He was a writer and producer for the NBC series "The West Wing" (playing the role of President Bartlet's father in flashbacks) as well as creator and executive producer of the NBC series "Mister Sterling". He also appeared as a recurring character on the HBO series "Big Love".  O'Donnell began his political career as an aide to U.S. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and was staff director for the Senate Finance Committee. He describes himself as a "practical European socialist".
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word (Knight short story)  "The Last Word" is a science fiction short story by American writer Damon Knight. It first appeared in the February 1957 issue of "Satellite Science Fiction" and has been reprinted twice, in "Far Out" (1961) and "The Best of Damon Knight" (1976).
Who was the screenwriter for The Last Word? [SEP] The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell  The Last Word with Lawrence O'Donnell is an American weeknight news and political commentary program on MSNBC. The program airs live at 10:00 P.M. Eastern Time Monday-Friday, and is hosted by Lawrence O'Donnell from Mondays to Thursdays and relief presenters on Fridays. O'Donnell is described by MSNBC as "providing the last word on the biggest issues and most compelling stories of the day."  The show originally premiered in the 10 pm slot Monday-Thursday on September 27, 2010, with the first episode featuring Vice President Joe Biden and "Countdown" host Keith Olbermann. The show was moved to the 8 pm slot in January 2011 when Olbermann's show was canceled. "Last Word" returned to its original 10 pm slot in October 2011.  During the 2022 United States elections, The Last Word was temporarily replaced on Fridays with The Kornacki Countdown hosted by Steve Kornacki during the 2022 midterm elections from October 14 to Election Day November 8.  Guest hosts for the series include Ali Velshi, Jonathan Capehart, and Alicia Menendez.  Replays of the show are available on MSNBC's app (accessible from the US only). The show is also available as an audio podcast.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Susanne Brink's Arirang (1991) - scripter ; The Story Inside the Handbag (1991) - assistant director ; The Rules of the Game (1994) - assistant director ; Born to Kill (1996) - screenplay, assistant director ; Calla (1999) - director ; Raybang (2001) - actor ; Failan (2001) - director, screenplay ; Rikidozan (2004) - director, screenplay, script editor ; Maundy Thursday (2006) - director ; A Better Tomorrow (2010) - director ; Boomerang Family (2013) - director, screenplay
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] O Dreamland (1989) - screenwriter ; The Night Before the Strike (1990) - screenwriter ; White Badge (1992) - script editor ; No Emergency Exit (1993) - script editor ; A Casual Trip (1994) - screenwriter ; Naeireun Woldeukeop (1996) - screenwriter ; If It Snows on Christmas (1998) - screenwriter ; The Ring Virus (1999) - screenwriter ; Dulliui Baenangyeohaeng (short film, 1999) - screenwriter ; Tell Me Something (1999) - screenwriter ; R-Point (2004) - director, screenwriter, script editor ; The Guard Post (2008) - director, screenwriter, producer
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP]  Kang Dae-ha was born in Seogwipo, Jeju Island, Korea in 1942, and majored in creative writing at Seorabeol Arts University. He initially considered becoming a painter, but after graduating high school he turned to literature, writing poetry for coterie magazine The Cliff (Jeolbyeok). His poem, The Paean (Changa), was recommended in the December 1965 issue of the monthly literary magazine Contemporary Literature (Hyundae Munhak). Before going on to get a third recommendation—the last step to becoming a professional poet—he instead entered the film industry, gaining recognition for his 1970 screenplay, Somebody's' House (Tain-ui jip). Throughout his career he wrote more than fifty screenplays, including A Girl's First Love (Sonyeo-ui cheot-sarang, 1971), and Green Fallen-Leaves (Paran nagyeop, 1976). In 1976, Kang debuted as a film director with the
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP]  Kang Dae-ha (April 12, 1942 – 1995) was a South Korean screenwriter, producer, film and art director and poet.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Coming Out (2000) - screenwriter ; Kick the Moon (2001) - original idea ; Conduct Zero (2002) - screenwriter ; Au Revoir, UFO (2004) - screenwriter ; Arahan (2004) - script editor ; Antarctic Journal (2005) - screenwriter ; Like a Virgin (2006) - director, screenwriter ; Castaway on the Moon (2009) - director, screenwriter ; A Hard Day (2014) - script editor ; My Dictator (2014) - director, screenwriter ; Golden Slumber (2017) - screenwriter ; Ashfall (2019) - director
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi  Kuch Rang Pyar Ke Aise Bhi (English Title: Shades Of Love) is an Indian Hindi-language romantic drama television series which aired on 29 February 2016 to 12 November 2021 on Sony Entertainment Television. It stars Erica Fernandes, Shaheer Sheikh and Supriya Pilgaonkar.  The second season of the show aired from 25 September 2017 to 2 November 2017 lasting for 26 episodes. A third season started airing on SET India on 12 July 2021. Post leap, the show was about the journey of the characters to their maturation. Some of the highlights are understanding, realizations, character developments, and a matured edition of reunion of separated lovers.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] King the Land  King the Land () is an upcoming South Korean television series starring Lee Jun-ho and Im Yoon-ah. It is scheduled to premiere on JTBC in the first half of 2023.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Kuch Toh Hai: Naagin Ek Naye Rang Mein  Kuch Toh Hai: Naagin Ek Naye Rang Mein () is an Indian Hindi-language supernatural, fantasy, thriller television series produced by Balaji Telefilms. It was the spin-off series of "Naagin 5". It starred Krishna Mukherjee and Harsh Rajput.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Abbas Kiarostami filmography  Abbas Kiarostami was an Iranian film director, screenwriter, poet, photographer and film producer whose filmmaking career spanned more than 40 years.
Who was the screenwriter for Rang-ha? [SEP] Secret Garden (South Korean TV series)  Secret Garden () is a 2010 South Korean television drama starring Ha Ji-won, Hyun Bin, Yoon Sang-hyun, and Kim Sa-rang. It aired on SBS from November 13, 2010 to January 16, 2011 on Saturdays and Sundays at 22:00 for 20 episodes.  The drama received positive response from critics and audience for its story, comedy, performance of cast especially of leads Hyun Bin, Yoon Sang-hyun and Ha Ji-won and production values. "Secret Garden" was a huge ratings success, with an estimation of more than 20 billion won worth of economic effect. Hyun Bin's portrayal as Kim Joo-won created a ""Hyun Bin" Syndrome" as his name and face were plastered everywhere, from newspapers to television and the internet. It won a number of awards at both the 2010 SBS Drama Awards and the 47th Baeksang Arts Awards, including "Grand Prize (Daesang)" for Hyun Bin.<ref name=sbsdrama /><ref name=baeksang />
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP]  The show is produced by BBC Comedy along with Fudge Park Productions, which was established in 2015 by the creators of The Inbetweeners – Damon Beesley and Iain Morris. Beesley created White Gold and acts as show runner and executive producer, in addition to having written eight of the 12 episodes. Joe Thomas and Chris Niel wrote two episodes each. Production of series 2 was suspended in November 2017 following allegations of sexual assault against Ed Westwick. Filming recommenced in November 2018.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP]  James Gordon White was a screenwriter best known for his work in the exploitation field.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP]  White Gold is a 2010 South African film, directed by Jayan Moodley and Paul Railton, produced by African Lotus Productions in association with Serendipity Productions and African Mediums. Its release was timed to coincide with the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Indian presence in South Africa. The film is a historical drama revolving around the experiences of Indian indentured labourers recruited for the sugar plantations of the 19th-century Colony of Natal, and their children and grandchildren. Jayan Moodley, who wrote the script and co-directed, was inspired by her own family history.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP]  Lloyd "Lucky" Gold (born September 6, 1950) is an American screenwriter and playwright. Gold's plays have been produced at the Eugene O'Neill Theatre, the Seattle Repertory Theatre, the McCarter Theater and others. He wrote numerous film scripts for Miramax and was script doctor on Marvin's Room and Shakespeare in Love. He is co-creator of the PBS American Mystery Series, produced by Robert Redford and Rebecca Eaton. Gold has written both series and long form for television including USA Network's Stealing Christmas. He is the recipient of an NEA grant, 4 Emmys and 3 WGA Awards.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP]  to pen the screenplay for a thriller called "Red Money." The film was never made, but it marked White's breakthrough into screenwriting after decades of attempts. In a 2005 award acceptance speech before the Friends of the Black Oscar Nominees group, White publicly thanked Poitier, "I would like to publicly thank Mr. Poitier, who was the first person in Hollywood to take a chance on me as a screenwriter." White was working on two screenplays at the time of his death in 2015 - a biopic on Bessie Smith titled "Empress of the Blues" and second film focusing on Dinah Washington, which is in pre-production. James L. White died from complications of liver and pancreatic cancer at his home in Santa Monica, California, on July 23, 2015, at the age of 67. He was survived by his wife, Elizabeth, two daughters and a son.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP] White Gold (2010 film)  White Gold is a 2010 South African film, directed by Jayan Moodley and Paul Railton, produced by African Lotus Productions in association with Serendipity Productions and African Mediums. Its release was timed to coincide with the celebrations of the 150th anniversary of Indian presence in South Africa. The film is a historical drama revolving around the experiences of Indian indentured labourers recruited for the sugar plantations of the 19th-century Colony of Natal, and their children and grandchildren. Jayan Moodley, who wrote the script and co-directed, was inspired by her own family history.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP] White Gold (2003 film)  White Gold () is a 2003 Russian action film directed by Viktor Ivanov from a screenplay by John Jopson and Viktor Ivanov. The story begins with the actual events of 1919 when a White Army train carrying the bulk of the Russian Empire's gold reserves arrives empty at Siberia's Irkutsk station. The adventure begins when, decades later, the grandson of a White Army officer inherits a map to the treasure.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP] White Fang (1991 film)  White Fang is a 1991 American period adventure drama film directed by Randal Kleiser, starring Ethan Hawke, Klaus Maria Brandauer and Seymour Cassel. Based on Jack London's 1906 novel "White Fang", it tells the story of the friendship between a young Klondike gold prospector and a wolfdog. White Fang is portrayed by a wolfdog, Jed, who also appeared in such films as "The Thing" (1982) and "The Journey of Natty Gann" (1985).<ref name="imdb" /> The film was released on January 18, 1991, by Buena Vista Pictures. A sequel to the film, "", was released in 1994.
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP] Jack London  John Griffith Chaney (January 12, 1876 – November 22, 1916), better known as Jack London, was an American novelist, journalist and activist. A pioneer of commercial fiction and American magazines, he was one of the first American authors to become an international celebrity and earn a large fortune from writing. He was also an innovator in the genre that would later become known as science fiction.  London was part of the radical literary group "The Crowd" in San Francisco and a passionate advocate of animal rights, workers’ rights and socialism. London wrote several works dealing with these topics, such as his dystopian novel "The Iron Heel", his non-fiction exposé "The People of the Abyss", "War of the Classes", and "Before Adam".  His most famous works include "The Call of the Wild" and "White Fang", both set in Alaska and the Yukon during the Klondike Gold Rush, as well as the short stories "To Build a Fire", "An Odyssey of the North", and "Love of Life". He also wrote about the South Pacific in stories such as "The Pearls of Parlay", and "The Heathen".
Who was the screenwriter for White Gold? [SEP] The Furnace (2020 film)  The Furnace is a 2020 Australian adventure drama film written and directed by Roderick MacKay. Set in the Western Australian outback during the goldrushes of the 1890s, the film's characters include "Afghan" cameleers, a white gold thief, and local Aboriginal people. It was nominated for several AACTA Awards.
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] Royal Wedding, 1951 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; An American in Paris (1951) (writer) ; Brigadoon, 1954 (film) (screenwriter/lyricist) ; Gigi, 1958 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, 1960 (lyricist) ; My Fair Lady, 1964 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; Camelot, 1967 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; Paint Your Wagon, 1969 (producer/screenwriter/lyricist) ; On a Clear Day You Can See Forever, 1970 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; The Little Prince, 1974 (screenwriter/lyricist) ; Tribute, 1980 ("It's All for the Best," lyricist) ; Secret Places, 1984 (title song lyricist) Source: TCM
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP]  Farrow started writing while working as a sailor and became interested in screenwriting after a chance voyage in the South Seas with the film-maker Robert J. Flaherty. Re-entering the United States, allegedly by jumping ship at San Francisco, he found his way to Hollywood where from 1927, his nautical expertise brought him work as a script consultant and technical adviser. He had already earned minor recognition as a poet and writer of short stories. He soon established himself as a notable screenwriter. He worked for DeMille Productions, doing titles for White Gold (1927) and The Wreck of the Hesperus (1927). He adapted Richard Connell's 1923 short story "A Friend of Napoleon" but it does not appear to have been made. He also wrote the original story for The Blue Danube (1928) and the script for The Bride of the Colorado (1929). At Warner Bros he wrote A Sailor's Sweetheart (1927) for director Lloyd Bacon.
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP]  Gough and Millar's agent, established screenwriter Jessica Bendinger sought after an unpublished writer who would work inexpensively on a screenplay. Fox had not yet written a sample screenplay, but Bendinger was so impressed with her ideas for the story that Fox was hired to write the script. The produced film was The Wedding Date, which ultimately was panned by critics but a financial success. After The Wedding Dates release, she was attached to three separate writing projects. Her next produced screenplay was What Happens in Vegas, which was bought by 20th Century Fox in a high six-figure deal for the script's first draft, and which stars Cameron Diaz and Ashton
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP]  Runaway Bride is a 1999 American screwball romantic comedy film directed by Garry Marshall and starring Julia Roberts and Richard Gere. The screenplay, written by Sara Parriott and Josann McGibbon, is about a reporter (Gere) that is assigned to write a story about a woman (Roberts) who has left a string of fiancés at the altar. It is the second film to co-star Gere and Roberts, following Pretty Woman (1990). It received generally negative reviews from critics but was a commercial success, grossing $309 million worldwide.
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP]  Zegerman wrote the screenplay for The Honeymoon Suite (2010).
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] The Princess Bride (film)  The Princess Bride is a 1987 American fantasy adventure comedy film directed and co-produced by Rob Reiner and starring Cary Elwes, Robin Wright, Mandy Patinkin, Chris Sarandon, Wallace Shawn, André the Giant, and Christopher Guest. Adapted by William Goldman from his 1973 novel of the same name, it tells the story of a swashbuckling farmhand named Westley, accompanied by companions befriended along the way, who must rescue his true love Princess Buttercup from the odious Prince Humperdinck. The film preserves the novel's metafictional narrative style by presenting the story as a book being read by a grandfather to his sick grandson.  The film was first released in the United States on September 25, 1987, The film also won the 1988 Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation.  In 2016, the film was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant".
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] Bride of Frankenstein  Bride of Frankenstein is a 1935 American science fiction horror film, and the first sequel to Universal Pictures' 1931 film "Frankenstein". As with the first film, "Bride of Frankenstein" was directed by James Whale starring Boris Karloff as the Monster and Colin Clive as Dr. Frankenstein. The sequel features Elsa Lanchester in the dual role of Mary Shelley and the titular character at the end of the film. Colin Clive reprises his role as Henry Frankenstein, and Ernest Thesiger plays the role of Doctor Septimus Pretorius.  Taking place immediately after the events of the earlier film, it is rooted in a subplot of the original Mary Shelley novel, "Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus" (1818). Its plot follows a chastened Henry Frankenstein as he attempts to abandon his plans to create life, only to be tempted and finally blackmailed by his old mentor Dr. Pretorius, along with threats from the Monster, into constructing a mate for the Monster.  The preparation to film the sequel began shortly after the premiere of the first film, but script problems delayed the project. Principal photography began in January 1935, with creative personnel from the original returning in front of and behind the camera. "Bride of Frankenstein" was released to critical and popular acclaim, although it encountered difficulties with some state and national censorship boards. Since its release the film's reputation has grown, and it is now frequently considered one of the greatest sequels ever made; many fans and critics consider it to be an improvement on the original, and it has been hailed as Whale's masterpiece. In 1998, it was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Film Registry, having been deemed "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant".
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] Corpse Bride  Corpse Bride (also known as Tim Burton's Corpse Bride) is a 2005 stop-motion animated musical dark fantasy film directed by Mike Johnson and Tim Burton with a screenplay by John August, Caroline Thompson and Pamela Pettler based on characters created by Burton and Carlos Grangel. The plot is set in a fictional Victorian era village in England. Johnny Depp leads the cast as the voice of Victor, while Helena Bonham Carter voices Emily, the titular bride. An international co-production between the United States and United Kingdom and produced by Tim Burton Productions, Laika and Patalex II Productions, "Corpse Bride" is the third stop-motion feature film produced by Burton and the first directed by him (the previous two films, "The Nightmare Before Christmas" (1993) and "James and the Giant Peach" (1996), were directed by Henry Selick). This is also the first stop-motion feature from Burton that was distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It was dedicated to executive producer Joe Ranft, who died in a car crash during production.  "Corpse Bride" is based on a 17th-century Jewish folktale, which Ranft introduced to Burton while they were finishing "The Nightmare Before Christmas". Work on the film started in November 2003 when Burton was completing "Big Fish" (2003). He continued with production on his next live-action feature, "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", which was produced simultaneously with the film. Production of the stop-motion animation feature took place at 3 Mills Studios in East London. It was shot with Canon EOS-1D Mark II digital SLRs, rather than the 35 mm film cameras used for Burton's previous stop-motion film "The Nightmare Before Christmas". Burton continued immediately brought regular collaborators Depp and Danny Elfman aboard.  "Corpse Bride" premiered at the Venice International Film Festival on September 7, 2005, and was released on September 23, 2005, in the United States and on October 13, 2005, in the United Kingdom. It became a critical and commercial success, grossing $118.1 million worldwide against its $40 million budget and received praise for its animation, characters, songs, and humor. The film won the National Board of Review for Best Animated Feature, and was nominated for the 78th Academy Awards for Best Animated Feature, but lost to "", which also starred Bonham Carter. The film won the Annie Awards Ub Iwerks Award for Technical Achievement in 2006, where it was also nominated for Best Animated Feature, Best Character Design, and Best Direction.
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] Bride Wars  Bride Wars is a 2009 American romantic comedy film directed by Gary Winick and written by Greg DePaul, June Diane Raphael, and Casey Wilson.<ref name="siegel" /> The film stars Kate Hudson and Anne Hathaway with Kristen Johnston, Bryan Greenberg and Candice Bergen in supporting roles. In the film, two childhood best friends, who have made many plans together for their respective weddings, turn into sworn enemies in a race to get married before the other.  "Bride Wars" was theatrically released on January 9, 2009, by 20th Century Fox. The film was panned by the critics but became a box office success grossing $114.7 million on a $30 million budget. A Chinese remake of the same name was released in 2015.
Who was the screenwriter for The Bride’s Journey? [SEP] Picture Bride (film)  Picture Bride is a 1995 American Japanese-language feature-length independent film directed by Kayo Hatta from a screenplay co-written with Mari Hatta, and co-produced by Diane Mei Lin Mark and Lisa Onodera. It follows Riyo, who arrives in Hawaii as a "picture bride" at the turn of the century for a man she has never met before. The story is based on the historical practice, due to U.S. anti-miscegenation laws, of Japanese immigrant laborers in the United States using long-distance matchmakers in their homelands to find wives.  Released by Miramax Films, the film stars Youki Kudoh, Akira Takayama, Tamlyn Tomita, and Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa, with a special appearance by Toshiro Mifune in his penultimate film role. "Picture Bride" premiered at the 1995 Sundance Film Festival, where it won the Audience Award for narrative dramatic feature film. Considered a landmark Asian American work, the film was an Official Selection at the 1994 Cannes Film Festival in the Un Certain Regard section and received an Independent Spirit Award nomination for Best First Feature.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] "Pilot"
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" was written by series creator Mike Kelley and directed by Salt director Phillip Noyce it was filmed in North Carolina between March–April 2011.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the first episode of the first season of the period drama television series The Americans. It originally aired on FX in the United States on January 30, 2013. The episode was written by series creator Joe Weisberg and directed by Gavin O'Connor. In 1981, shortly after the inauguration of President Ronald Reagan, Philip and Elizabeth Jennings (Matthew Rhys and Keri Russell) are undercover Soviet intelligence agents from the secretive Directorate S of the KGB sent to the U.S. 15 years ago to work deep cover in Washington, D.C. Their assumed identities are a married couple who run a travel agency, and even their own children Paige (Holly Taylor) and Henry (Keidrich Sellati) do not know their secret. Reviews for the episode were largely positive. Critics commented on the lead performances of Russell, Rhys, and Noah Emmerich. In the United States, the series premiere achieved a viewership of 3.22 million.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  "Pilot" is the two-part television pilot of the ABC television series Lost, with part 1 premiering on September 22, 2004, and part 2 one week later on September 29. Both parts were directed by J. J. Abrams, who co-wrote the script with Damon Lindelof. Jeffrey Lieber, who had been commissioned by ABC to write the first version of the script, earned a story credit. Filmed in Oahu, Hawaii, it was the most expensive pilot episode up to that time, costing between $10 and $14 million, largely due to the expense of purchasing, shipping, and dressing a decommissioned Lockheed 1011 to represent Flight 815's wreckage. Many changes were made during the casting
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP]  On August 23, 2017, it was announced that NBC had given Manifest a put pilot commitment, to be written by Jeff Rake and produced by Rake, Robert Zemeckis, Jack Rapke, and Jackie Levine. On January 23, 2018, it was reported that NBC had given the production a formal pilot order. The pilot was directed by David Frankel, who also executive produced. Manifest was ordered to series in May 2018.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Dragon Pilot: Hisone and Masotan
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Test Pilot (film)  Test Pilot is a 1938 film directed by Victor Fleming, starring Clark Gable, Myrna Loy and Spencer Tracy, and featuring Lionel Barrymore. The Oscar-nominated film tells the story of a daredevil test pilot (Gable), his wife (Loy), and his best friend (Tracy).  "Test Pilot" was written by Howard Hawks, Vincent Lawrence, John Lee Mahin, Frank Wead, and Waldemar Young. The screenplay was largely based on an original story by former naval aviator Wead.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Pilot (Breaking Bad)  "Pilot" (titled "Breaking Bad" on DVD and Blu-ray releases) is the series premiere of the American television crime drama series "Breaking Bad". The episode was directed and written by series creator and showrunner Vince Gilligan. It first aired on AMC on January 20, 2008.  In the episode, chemistry teacher Walter White (Bryan Cranston) is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer. Keeping it a secret from his pregnant wife Skyler (Anna Gunn) and their teenage son Walter Jr. (RJ Mitte), he decides that he wants to spend his last years saving money for his family. After going on a drug bust with his brother-in-law and DEA agent Hank Schrader (Dean Norris), Walt spots his former student Jesse Pinkman (Aaron Paul) and later blackmails him into helping him cook methamphetamine in an RV.  In its initial airing, the pilot received mostly positive reviews from critics, who praised Gilligan for his script and Cranston for his performance. At the 60th Primetime Emmy Awards, the episode received various nominations, with Cranston winning the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series and Gilligan earning a nomination for Outstanding Directing.
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who was the screenwriter for Pilot? [SEP] James Burrows  James Edward Burrows (born December 30, 1940), sometimes known as Jim "Jimmy" Burrows, is an American television director who has been working in television since the 1970s. Burrows has directed over 50 television pilots and co-created the long-running television series "Cheers". He has also formed 3 Sisters Entertainment, a joint venture with NBC that is known for "Will & Grace" as well as the CBS Productions show "Caroline in the City".  In 2016, Burrows directed his 1,000th TV episode, on NBC's "Crowded".
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP]  Are These Our Children? is a 1931 American pre-Code drama film directed by Wesley Ruggles and written by Howard Estabrook. The film stars Eric Linden, Ben Alexander, Beryl Mercer, Mary Kornman, Arline Judge, and Rochelle Hudson. The film was released on November 14, 1931 by RKO Pictures
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP]  King was executive producer of the feature documentary Still, The Children Are Here, made in collaboration with Mira Nair and Dinaz Stafford. The film is set in the remote village of Sadholpara in Northeastern India. He has also written a screenplay adaptation of A Girl From Zanzibar, which is in development. His screenplay of Written on a Stranger's Map won the BBC/Writer's Guild award for best first screenplay.
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP]  Mormarevi Brothers declared that they never had intentions to write about children. As writers, they always searched for the funny parts of everyday life. They found it in the child's point of view on the world, but their writing was spiced with a lot of humour that could also be appreciated by adults, and even with some satire. In 1971, their second filmed screenplay, named Porcupines Are Born Without Spines, was released. This was the first film in a series that came to be known as "Childhood". Inspired by children and their laughter, they produced a series of memorable films with similar themes. They were: With Children at the Seaside (1972), Exams at Any Odd Time (1974), Problem with Many Unknown Quantities (1977) and The Porcupines' War (1979). The first three films in this series used a formula of two separate
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP]  ö (The Island of the Children) filmed in 1980 by Kay Pollak ; Alice Jones, American poet, practiced internal medicine, psychiatry, now psychoanalysis. Co-editor of Apogee Press. ; Carl Jung (1875–1961), Austrian psychoanalyst and author. ; James Kahn (born 1947) American writer, best known for his novelization of Return of the Jedi, Poltergeist and Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. He has also written for well-known television series such as Melrose Place, Star Trek: The Next Generation, St. Elsewhere and E/R ; Christopher Kasparek (born 1945), Scottish-born writer of Polish descent who has edited and translated works by Ignacy Krasicki, Bolesław Prus,
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP]  These Three is a 1936 American drama film directed by William Wyler and starring Miriam Hopkins, Merle Oberon, Joel McCrea, and Bonita Granville. The screenplay by Lillian Hellman is based on her 1934 play The Children's Hour. A 1961 remake of the film, also directed by Wyler, was released as The Children's Hour in the US and The Loudest Whisper in the UK.
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP] Children's literature  Children's literature or juvenile literature includes stories, books, magazines, and poems that are created for children. Modern children's literature is classified in two different ways: genre or the intended age of the reader.  Children's literature can be traced to traditional stories like fairy tales, that have only been identified as children's literature in the eighteenth century, and songs, part of a wider oral tradition, that adults shared with children before publishing existed. The development of early children's literature, before printing was invented, is difficult to trace. Even after printing became widespread, many classic "children's" tales were originally created for adults and later adapted for a younger audience. Since the fifteenth century much literature has been aimed specifically at children, often with a moral or religious message. Children's literature has been shaped by religious sources, like Puritan traditions, or by more philosophical and scientific standpoints with the influences of Charles Darwin and John Locke. The late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries are known as the "Golden Age of Children's Literature" because many classic children's books were published then.
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP] Midnight's Children  Midnight's Children is a 1981 novel by Indian-British writer Salman Rushdie, published by Jonathan Cape with cover design by Bill Botten, about India's transition from British colonial rule to independence and partition. It is a postcolonial, postmodern and magical realist story told by its chief protagonist, Saleem Sinai, set in the context of historical events. The style of preserving history with fictional accounts is self-reflexive.  "Midnight's Children" sold over one million copies in the UK alone and won the Booker Prize and James Tait Black Memorial Prize in 1981. It was awarded the "Booker of Bookers" Prize and the best all-time prize winners in 1993 and 2008 to celebrate the Booker Prize 25th and 40th anniversary. In 2003 the novel appeared at number 100 on the BBC's The Big Read poll which determined the UK's "best-loved novels" of all time.
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP] There's Something Wrong with the Children  There's Something Wrong with the Children is an upcoming American horror film directed by Roxanne Benjamin and written by T. J. Cimfel and David White. The film stars Alisha Wainwright, Zach Gilford, Amanda Crew, and Carlos Santos. Jason Blum serves as an executive producer through his Blumhouse Television banner.  "There's Something Wrong with the Children" is scheduled to be released digitally in the United States on January 17, 2023, by Paramount Pictures, and on March 17, 2023, by MGM+.
Who was the screenwriter for These Children? [SEP] Children of Men  Children of Men is a 2006 dystopian action thriller film co-written and directed by Alfonso Cuarón. The screenplay, based on P. D. James' 1992 novel "The Children of Men", was credited to five writers, with Clive Owen making uncredited contributions. The film takes place in 2027, when two decades of human infertility have left society on the brink of collapse. Asylum seekers seek sanctuary in the United Kingdom, where they are subjected to detention and refoulement by the government. Owen plays civil servant Theo Faron, who must help refugee Kee (Clare-Hope Ashitey) escape the chaos. "Children of Men" also stars Julianne Moore, Chiwetel Ejiofor, Pam Ferris, Charlie Hunnam, and Michael Caine.  The film was released by Universal Pictures on 22 September 2006 in the UK and on 25 December in the US. Critics noted the relationship between the US' Christmas opening and the film's themes of hope, redemption, and faith. Despite the limited release and lack of any clear marketing strategy during awards season by the film's distributor, "Children of Men" received critical acclaim and was recognised for its achievements in screenwriting, cinematography, art direction, and innovative single-shot action sequences. It was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Cinematography, and Best Film Editing. It was also nominated for three BAFTA Awards, winning Best Cinematography and Best Production Design, and for three Saturn Awards, winning Best Science Fiction Film. In 2016 it was voted 13th among 100 films considered the best of the 21st century by 117 film critics from around the world.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP]  campus as well as learns about self-determination, including reading the fate of the creature in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein novel. Needing more money, Forrester calls Pressman. The next afternoon, they return to the apartment but the surroundings are suspicious. Forrester orders Michael to hide in the garage. Inside the apartment, he finds Pressman. Aware that Pressman could not have withdrawn the money after business hours, Forrester accuses him of leading the government to him in exchange for a fully-funded research grant that he had long sought. Pressman denies it, claiming concern for Forrester as his only motivation. Forrester proposes a meeting at a
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP]  shop if Pressman will lead the agents away as a gesture of trust. Forrester finds Michael in the garage and is resigned to having to surrender him to the government. Michael decides he wants to be in control of his fate and proposes self-immolation using flammable liquids stored in the garage. Forrester is aghast at the idea but finally agrees that it’s the only way to keep Michael out of the government’s hands. They say good bye and Forrester goes to the coffee shop where he numbly joins Pressman, Jarrett and Keating as fire engines respond to the blaze at the garage.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP]  Just before Christmas, a security guard discovers a top secret project has disappeared from a laboratory. It is an advanced humanoid robot with learning and analytical abilities, developed by a team led by irascible Nobel laureate Dr. Carl Forrester. He has taken the robot – named Michael – out for field testing at a department store then to his own home for dinner to see if the robot can fool his wife, Dorothy. Lab security escort Forrester and Michael back to the lab, to Dorothy’s puzzlement. Forrester’s associate, Gene Pressman, a scientist with ultra-liberal leanings, is ecstatic about the success of the unscheduled
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP]  Prototype is a 1983 television film, starring Christopher Plummer.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] Christopher Plummer as Dr. Carl Forrester ; David Morse as Michael ; Frances Sternhagen as Dorothy Forrester ; James Sutorius as Dr. Gene Pressman ; Stephen Elliott as Dr. Arthur Jarrett ; Doran Clark as Chris ; Alley Mills as Dr. Rebecca Bishop ; Arthur Hill as Gen. Keating ; Ed Call as Security guard ; Jonathan Estrin as Dr. Cooper ; Richard Kuss as Harris ; Pat McNamara as Landlord ; Vahan Moosekian as Dr. Kirk ; Molly Hansen as Elizabeth Hammond Ph.D. (uncredited)
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] Versions of Blade Runner  Seven different versions of Ridley Scott's 1982 science fiction film "Blade Runner" have been shown, either to test audiences or theatrically. The best known versions are the "Workprint", the "US Theatrical Cut", the "International Cut", the "Director's Cut" and the "Final Cut". These five versions are included in both the 2007 five-disc Ultimate Collectors Edition and 2012 30th-Anniversary Collector's Edition releases.  There also exists the "San Diego Sneak Preview Cut", which was only shown once at a preview screening and the "US Broadcast Cut", which was edited for television broadcast. In the 2007 documentary "Dangerous Days: The Making of Blade Runner", there is a reference to director Ridley Scott presenting an eighth version, a nearly four-hour-long "early cut", that was shown only to studio personnel. The following is a timeline of these various versions.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] Thomas the Tank Engine  Thomas the Tank Engine is an anthropomorphised fictional tank locomotive in the British "Railway Series" books by Wilbert Awdry and his son, Christopher, published from 1945. He became the most popular and famous character in the series, and is the titular protagonist in the accompanying television adaptation series "Thomas & Friends" and its reboot "".  Thomas is a blue steam engine and has a number 1 painted on his side. All of the vehicles in "The Railway Series" were based on prototypical engines; Thomas's basis is the LB&SCR E2 class. Thomas first appeared in 1946 in the second book in the series, "Thomas the Tank Engine", and was the focus of the four short stories contained within. In "The Railway Series" and early episodes of "Thomas & Friends", Thomas's best friends are Percy and Toby, though he is also close friends with Edward. Later episodes of "Thomas & Friends" have Thomas in a trio with James and Percy, and Percy is known as his best friend.  In 1979, British writer and producer Britt Allcroft came across the books, and arranged a deal to bring the stories to life as the TV series "Thomas the Tank Engine & Friends" (later simplified to "Thomas & Friends"). The programme became an award-winning hit around the world, with a vast range of spin-off commercial products.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] Phillip J. Roth  Phillip J. Roth (born June 10, 1959) is an American film producer, director and screenwriter who is known for making low-budget films. He is the founder of the Unified Film Organization (UFO) in America and Bulgaria, which have released various action and science fiction films for television and home video markets.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] Dumbo  Dumbo is a 1941 American animated fantasy film produced by Walt Disney Productions and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The fourth Disney animated feature film, it is based upon the storyline written by Helen Aberson and Harold Pearl, and illustrated by Helen Durney for the prototype of a novelty toy ("Roll-a-Book"). The main character is Jumbo Jr., an elephant who is cruelly nicknamed "Dumbo", as in "dumb". He is ridiculed for his big ears, but in fact he is capable of flying by using his ears as wings. Throughout most of the film, his only true friend, aside from his mother, is the mouse, Timothy – a relationship parodying the stereotypical animosity between mice and elephants.  Made to recoup the financial losses of both "Pinocchio" and "Fantasia", "Dumbo" was a deliberate pursuit of simplicity and economy for the Disney studios. At 64 minutes, it is one of Disney's shortest animated features. Sound was recorded conventionally using the RCA System. One voice was synthesized using the Sonovox system, but it, too, was recorded using the RCA System.  "Dumbo" was released on October 23, 1941, where it was met with generally favorable reviews. However, it has also been criticized for racist stereotyping of black people. In 2017, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically and aesthetically significant".  A live-action adaptation of the film directed by Tim Burton was released on March 29, 2019, though it was neither critically nor commercially successful.
Who was the screenwriter for Prototype? [SEP] The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind  The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind is a 2019 British drama film written, directed by and starring Chiwetel Ejiofor in his feature directorial debut. The film is based on the memoir of the same name by William Kamkwamba and Bryan Mealer. It was screened in the Premieres section at the 2019 Sundance Film Festival and began streaming in most territories on Netflix on 1 March 2019. It was selected as the British entry for the Best International Feature Film at the 92nd Academy Awards, but it was not nominated. It received widely positive reviews with praise going to Ejiofor's direction and the acting.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP]  From 1986 to 1994, he worked as a freelancer and did script analysis for various production companies. He also worked for Mary Stuart Masterson at her production company. From 1997 to 2000, he was employed by DreamWorks as the Director of Screenplay Development under producers Mark Johnson and Elizabeth Cantillon. He was in charge of developing screenplays for films like My Dog Skip, Galaxy Quest, Home Fries, and What Lies Beneath.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP]  Hogan Sheffer (June 12, 1958 – September 28, 2019) was an American screenwriter.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP]  William Hogan (born 1937) is an American novelist and film producer.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP]  also later wrote for Number 96 and co-wrote the script of the hit Paul Hogan film Crocodile Dundee. At this stage Raye was intending to work only as the show's producer, and she still needed to find a female lead; Chater suggested June Salter (who agreed to a guest appearance in the pilot) and they also approached Judi Farr and several other actresses, but all were tied up with other work and could not commit to the lead role. Chater finally suggested that Raye should do the pilot herself, for fear that Seven would lose interest in the show and cancel, and although she was not keen to perform and co-produce, Raye agreed to do it.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP]  war. One of the three was Bull Nevin; and another was named “Nippy” Westover — prototypes of the soon-to-be-created “Bull” Martin and “Nippy” Weston. Airplane salesmen were expendable after the 1929 collapse, and Hogan soon found himself placed upon his mettle. To fill a leisure moment, he read one of the new aviation pulp magazines. Afterwards, he is reported to have said, “Hell, I can write better than that!” and a short while later he sold his first story to WINGS for $65.00. Moving from Florida to Manhattan, to be near the pulp markets, he found a jungle of competition. Nearly 300 writers lived around New York and an
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP] Pommy Arrives in Australia  Pommy Arrives in Australia is a 1913 Australian silent film directed by Raymond Longford. The director's first comedy, and the first purely comic feature made in Australia, it is considered a lost film.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP] Robert J. Hogan (writer)  Robert Jasper Hogan (1897–1963) was an American writer, mainly of pulp fiction and later western fiction. He is notable as the creator of G-8, published by Popular Publications. Unlike other pulp authors, all his works appeared under his own name rather than house pseudonyms.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP] Desmond Hogan  Desmond Hogan (born 10 December 1950) is an Irish writer. Awarded the 1977 Rooney Prize for Irish Literature and 1980 John Llewellyn Rhys Prize, his oeuvre comprises novels, plays, short stories and travel writing.  The "Cork Examiner" said: "Like no other Irish writer just now, Hogan sets down what it's like to be a disturbed child of what seems a Godforsaken country in these troubled times." "The Boston Globe" said there "is something mannered in Hogan's prose, which is festooned with exotic imagery and scattered in sentence fragments."  A contemporary of Bruce Chatwin, Ian McEwan, Peter Carey, Salman Rushdie and a close friend of Kazuo Ishiguro, he has since vanished off the literary scene.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP] James P. Hogan (director)  James Patrick Hogan (September 21, 1890 in Lowell, Massachusetts – November 4, 1943 in North Hollywood, California) was an American filmmaker.  His movies included "Bulldog Drummond's Secret Police" (1939) and "The Mad Ghoul" (1943), his last film. He died from a heart attack aged 53.
Who was the screenwriter for Ma Hogan's New Boarder? [SEP] Ivan Dixon  Ivan Nathaniel Dixon III (April 6, 1931 – March 16, 2008) was an American actor, director, and producer best known for his series role in the 1960s sitcom "Hogan's Heroes", and for his starring roles in the 1964 independent drama "Nothing But a Man" and the 1967 television film "The Final War of Olly Winter". In addition, he directed many episodes of television series.  Active in the civil rights movement from 1961, Dixon served as a president of Negro Actors for Action.<ref name=nyt/>
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]  He published several novels, including Introduction à la mort française and Évoluer parmi les avalanches, as well as an essay about the tapestries of The Lady and the Unicorn: À mon seul désir. He also directed two volumes of interviews with Philippe Sollers: Ligne de risque and Poker. In 2007, he published Cercle (Éditions Gallimard), a novel which earned him the prix Décembre and the prix Roger Nimier. In 2007, a controversy arose with Alina Reyes who accused him of plagiarism. In 2008-2009, Haenel was a resident at the French Academy in Rome, the Villa Médicis. In 2009, he was awarded the Prix Interallié and the Prix du
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]  François Perrin (Pierre Richard), a photographer desirous to get into filming, wrote with his friend Henri, a script titled Le miroir de l'âme. Having not found any producer, François transmits the script to a producer of pornographic films, Bob Morlock (Jean-Pierre Marielle), who retitles the project into La vaginale. The only thing is that this setting becomes a source of conflict between François and his partner Christine (Miou-Miou).
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]  Serge-Simon Held (credited as S.S. Held) was a French science fiction author known for the 1931 environmentalist novel La Mort du Fer (published in English as The Death of Iron). Very little is known about Held. He may have been from Alsace or of Alsacian descent, with many people from the region fleeing to Paris in 1870 due to the Alsacian cession to Germany following the Franco-Prussian war. The professor of English Frederick Waage was unable to find a record of Held, but noted that Held is frequently used as an ornamental surname among Jews. La Mort du Fer was published by Fayard, and printed by of Abbeville, in 1931. The novel was serialized in
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]  / Le Lac des Morts Vivants / Lake of the Living Dead (1981, director: Jean Rollin) .... The Mayor ; Docteur Jekyll et les femmes (1981) .... Dr. Lanyon ; L'appât du gain (1981) ; Revenge in the House of Usher / Neurosis (1982, director: Jesús Franco) .... René Dimanche ; Revenge in the House of Usher (1983) .... Eric Usher ; Sangre en mis zapatos/ Blood on my Shoes (1983) .... Profesor Albert Von Klaus ; Mad Mutilator (1983) .... Vampire ; Le fou du roi (1984) .... Abbé guibourd ; The Sinister Dr. Orloff (1984, director: Jesús Franco) .... Dr. Orloff
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]   The screenplay of Vertigo is an adaptation of the French novel D'entre les morts (From Among the Dead) by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac. Hitchcock had attempted to buy the rights to the previous novel by the same authors, Celle qui n'était plus (She Who Was No More), but he failed, and it was made instead by Henri-Georges Clouzot as Les Diaboliques. Although François Truffaut once suggested that D'entre les morts was specifically written for Hitchcock by Boileau and Narcejac, Narcejac subsequently denied that this was their intention. However, Hitchcock's interest in their work meant that Paramount Pictures commissioned a synopsis of D'entre les morts in 1954, before it had even been translated into English.  In the book, Judy's involvement in Madeleine's death was not revealed until the denouement. At the script stage, Hitchcock suggested revealing the secret two-thirds of the way through
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP] Mahmoud Ben Mahmoud  Mahmoud Ben Mahmoud (born in 1947, Tunis) is a Tunisian film writer and producer.
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP] Jean-Jacques Andrien  Jean-Jacques Andrien (born 1 June 1944) is a Belgian film director. Le Monde deem his film "Le Grand Paysage d'Alexis Droeven" (1981), to be "the first great Film of a Walloon cinema"  "This film addresses two problems; the first is that of Belgium's region, site of a bitter conflict between Flemish and Walloon inhabitants, and the second that of a dramatic changes that have affected the agricultural world." The film was entered into the 31st Berlin International Film Festival where it won an Honourable Mention.
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP] Golden Leopard  The Golden Leopard () is the top prize at the Locarno International Film Festival, an international film festival held annually in Locarno, Switzerland since 1946. Directors in the process of getting an international reputation are allowed to be entered in the competitive selection. The winning films are chosen by a jury. The award went under many names until it was named the "Golden Leopard" in 1968. The festival was not held in 1951 and the prize was not awarded in 1956 and 1982. As of 2009 René Clair and Jiří Trnka are the only two directors to have won the award twice, both of them winning in consecutive years.
Who was the screenwriter for Le Fils d'Amr est mort? [SEP] List of Tunisian films  An A-Z list of films produced in Tunisia:
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]  Tine is a 1964 Danish drama film directed by Knud Leif Thomsen. It was entered into the 4th Moscow International Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]  Lazenby. He did an early draft of Diamonds Are Forever (1971), then the producers wanted an American writer and hired Tom Mankiewicz to rework it. Mankiewicz was the sole screenwriter on Live and Let Die (1973), Roger Moore's first Bond movie. Instead, Maibaum wrote and produced a TV movie, Jarrett (1973), starring Glenn Ford. Maibaum was brought back to the Bond movies to work on Mankiewicz's draft of The Man with the Golden Gun (1974). He was one of the many writers who worked on The Spy Who Loved Me (1977), sharing credit with Christopher Wood. Maibaum was not used on Moonraker (1979), the producers preferring Wood. Instead, Maibaum worked on a Bond spoof, S.H.E: Security Hazards Expert (1980).
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]  wrote the script himself as well, Bart said he could not remember. Variety policy prohibits staffers from selling scripts, as doing so could generate a conflict of interest given that publication's focus and influence on the Hollywood movie industry, though Bart said he has no problem with staff selling the movie rights to books they have written. He served as executive producer and screenwriter of the documentary film, Boffo! Tinseltown's Bombs and Blockbusters (2006) shown on the HBO television channel. Through the years Bart has published eight books, including five non-fiction and three fiction. He serves on the Board of Advisors for Penske Media Company.
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]   Stuart James Byrne (October 26, 1913 - September 23, 2011) was an American screenwriter and writer of science fiction and fantasy. He published under his own name and the pseudonyms Rothayne Amare, John Bloodstone, Howard Dare, and Marx Kaye (a house pseudonym).
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]  Mathison wrote the screenplay for E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial (1982) in collaboration with Steven Spielberg. It was nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. The script was based on a story, written by John Sayles, that Spielberg provided to Mathison during the filming of Raiders of the Lost Ark (1981). Spielberg attributes the line "E.T. phone home" to Mathison. She collaborated again with Spielberg for The BFG (2016), her final film, which was dedicated in her memory. She also had film credits for The Escape Artist (1982) and The Indian in the Cupboard (1995).
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP] Michael Bentine  Michael Bentine, (born Michael James Bentin; 26 January 1922 – 26 November 1996) was a British comedian, comic actor and founding member of the Goons. His father was a Peruvian Briton.
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP] R. L. Stine  Robert Lawrence Stine (; born October 8, 1943), sometimes known as Jovial Bob Stine and Eric Affabee, is an American novelist, short story writer, television producer, screenwriter, and executive editor.  Stine has been referred to as the "Stephen King of children's literature" and is the author of hundreds of horror fiction novels, including the books in the "Fear Street", "Goosebumps", "Rotten School", "Mostly Ghostly" and "The Nightmare Room" series. Some of his other works include a "Space Cadets" trilogy, two "Hark" gamebooks, and dozens of joke books. As of 2008, Stine's books have sold over 400 million copies.
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP] John Viavattine  John Viavattine (born March 21, 1955) is an American professional woodwind performer who worked as instrumental music teacher at Spencerport High School in Rochester, New York.
Who was the screenwriter for Tine? [SEP] Arnold J. Toynbee  Arnold Joseph Toynbee (; 14 April 1889 – 22 October 1975) was an English historian, a philosopher of history, an author of numerous books and a research professor of international history at the London School of Economics and King's College London. From 1918 to 1950, Toynbee was considered a leading specialist on international affairs; from 1924 to 1954 he was the Director of Studies at Chatham House, in which position he also produced 34 volumes of the "Survey of International Affairs," a "bible" for international specialists in Britain.  He is best known for his 12-volume "A Study of History" (1934–1961). With his prodigious output of papers, articles, speeches and presentations, and numerous books translated into many languages, Toynbee was a widely read and discussed scholar in the 1940s and 1950s.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP]  Los peores años de nuestra vida (English: The Worst Years of Our Life) is a 1994 Spanish comedy film directed by Emilio Martínez Lázaro and written by David Trueba. The film was nominated for four Goya Awards, winning one.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP]  the Life" written by Lenny Schulman, story by Clay ; Nothing but Trouble, screenplay by Dan Aykroyd, story by Peter Aykroyd ; Return to the Blue Lagoon, screenplay by Leslie Stevens, based on the novel "The Garden of God" by Henry De Vere Stacpoole ; 1992 Stop! Or My Mom Will Shoot, written by Blake Snyder, William Osborne & William Davies ; The Bodyguard, written by Lawrence Kasdan ; Christopher Columbus: The Discovery, screenplay by John Briley and Cary Bates and Mario Puzo ; Final Analysis, screenplay by Wesley Strick, story by Robert H. Berger, M.D. (consultant), and Wesley Strick ;
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP]  splits show-running duties with Albert Alarr (who previously served as a member of the show's directing staff) as co-executive producer. The first long-term head writer, William J. Bell, started writing for Days of Our Lives in 1966 and continued with the show until 1975, two years after he had created his own successful soap, The Young and the Restless, for rival network CBS. He continued with the show as a storyline consultant until 1978. During the late 1970s and early 1980s, many changes to the head writer position occurred. In the early 1980s, Margaret DePriest helped stabilize the show with her serial killer storyline. Later head
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP]  On August 4, 2015, it was announced that Steve Carr would direct the film adaptation of James Patterson's 2011 novel Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life, with a script written by Chris Bowman and Hubbel Palmer. Although Carr originally planned his next project to be an R-rated comedy, he accepted the offer to direct the film due to his connection with the character of Rafe, as he would doodle out his angst during his early teen years; this became a habit throughout his film career, as he would doodle what shots would look like to cinematographers he worked with. Patterson gave Carr a lot of freedom from the source material, and the director chose to make the film adaptation more of a family movie than the young-kid-orientated book.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP]  A film adaptation was released by CBS Films in October 2016. Griffin Gluck played Rafe Khatchadorian.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP] Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life (film)  Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life is a 2016 American live-action/animated family comedy film directed by Steve Carr and written by Chris Bowman, Hubbel Palmer and Kara Holden, based on the 2011 novel by James Patterson and Chris Tebbetts. The film stars Griffin Gluck, Lauren Graham, Rob Riggle, Isabela Merced, Retta, Thomas Barbusca, Andy Daly, and Adam Pally. It follows Rafael "Rafe" Khatchadorian (Gluck), a middle school student who sets out to break every one of the many rules made by his domineering principal (Daly).  Carr accepted the offer to direct the film adaptation after connecting with the character of Rafe, and was given creative freedom by Patterson with his source material, making it a more family-friendly affair and choosing his own cast members. Produced by CBS Films, James Patterson Entertainment and Participant Media, principal photography began in Atlanta, Georgia, lasting from November 2015 to January 2016. "Middle School" was released by Lionsgate on October 7, 2016. It garnered a mixed reception from critics, with reviews divided over the overall tone and humor throughout the script and filmmaking, and grossed $23 million against an $8.5 million budget. A sequel is in development.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP] 9th Goya Awards  The 9th Goya Awards were presented in Madrid, Spain on 20 January 1995.  "Running Out of Time" won the award for Best Film.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP] Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life  Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life is a realistic fiction novel by James Patterson that serves as the beginning of Patterson's "Middle School" series. as he attempts to break every school rule in the code of conduct. The book received critical acclaim from many reviewers and went on to spawn a sequel, "Middle School: Get Me Out of Here!".
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP] Barbara Ehrenreich  Barbara Ehrenreich (, ; ; August 26, 1941 – September 1, 2022) was an American author and political activist. During the 1980s and early 1990s, she was a prominent figure in the Democratic Socialists of America. She was a widely read and award-winning columnist and essayist and the author of 21 books. Ehrenreich was best known for her 2001 book "", a memoir of her three-month experiment surviving on a series of minimum wage jobs. She was a recipient of a Lannan Literary Award.
Who was the screenwriter for The Worst Years of Our Lives? [SEP] You're the Worst  You're the Worst is an American comedy-drama television series created by Stephen Falk. Originally broadcast by FX, the series moved to its sister channel FXX beginning with the second season. The series follows Jimmy (Chris Geere), a self-involved writer, and Gretchen (Aya Cash), a self-destructive PR executive, as they attempt a relationship, along with their friends Edgar (Desmin Borges) and Lindsay (Kether Donohue).  In September 2014, FX renewed the show for a thirteen-episode second season, which premiered September 9, 2015 on FXX. The second season shifted its focus towards clinical depression and its effect on modern relationships, ultimately becoming the theme of the series. In September 2016, FX renewed the series for a fourth season, which premiered on September 6, 2017. In November 2017, FX renewed the series for a fifth and final season which premiered on January 9, 2019. The final episode aired on April 3, 2019.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP]  Malvin Daniel Wald (August 8, 1917 – March 6, 2008) was an American screenwriter most famous for writing the 1948 police drama The Naked City, for which he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Story. He wrote over 150 scripts for motion pictures and TV shows including Peter Gunn, Daktari, and Perry Mason. He also served with the Army Air Forces and taught screenwriting at the University of Southern California. He died at Sherman Oaks Hospital in Los Angeles from age-related causes at age 90.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] McInerney wrote the screenplay for the 1988 film adaptation of Bright Lights, Big City. Directed by James Bridges, it stars Michael J. Fox, Kiefer Sutherland, and Phoebe Cates.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP]  Proyas co-wrote the screenplay with Lem Dobbs and David S. Goyer. Goyer had written The Crow: City of Angels, the sequel to Proyas's 1994 film The Crow; Proyas invited Goyer to co-write the screenplay for Dark City after reading Goyer's screenplay for Blade, which had yet to be released. Writers Guild of America initially protested at crediting more than two screenwriters for a film, but it eventually relented and credited all three writers. Proyas originally conceived a story about a 1940s detective who is obsessed with facts and cannot solve a case where the facts do not make sense. "He slowly starts to go insane through the story", says Proyas. "He can't put the facts together because they don't add up to anything rational." In the process of creating the fictional world for the character of the detective, Proyas created other characters, shifting the focus of the film from the detective (Bumstead) to the person pursued by the detective (Murdoch). Proyas envisioned a robust narrative where the audience could examine the film from the perspective of multiple characters and focus on the plot.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP]  first screenwriting assignment was writing a draft of The Godfather Part III. This led to authoring projects for Peter Guber, Dino De Laurentiis, Mike Medavoy, and Daniel Melnick, among others. Wright wrote the original screenplay for the Warner Brothers film New Jack City. which the New York Times called "an urban classic" on the 25th anniversary of its premiere. He was nominated for Best Documentary Short Subject at the 90th Academy Awards for Edith+Eddie. Wright is well-known for his films about social justice issues, including: Three of his films deal with war veterans: As an author, Wright co-wrote two books about filmmaking:
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP]  Jo Eisinger (1909–1991) was a film and television writer whose career spanned more than 40 years from the early 1940s well into the 1980s. He is widely recognized as the writer of two of the most psychologically complex film noirs, Gilda (1946) and Night and the City (1950). His credits also include The Sleeping City (1950) and Crime of Passion (1957), a coda to the films of the noir style, for which he wrote the story as well as the screenplay. Starring Barbara Stanwyck, it's a strikingly modern commentary about how women were driven mad by the limitations imposed upon them in the postwar period. Jo Eisinger
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] City Lights  City Lights is a 1931 American silent romantic comedy film written, produced, directed by, and starring Charlie Chaplin. The story follows the misadventures of Chaplin's Tramp as he falls in love with a blind girl (Virginia Cherrill) and develops a turbulent friendship with an alcoholic millionaire (Harry Myers).  Although sound films were on the rise when Chaplin started developing the script in 1928, he decided to continue working with silent productions. Filming started in December 1928 and ended in September 1930. "City Lights" marked the first time Chaplin composed the film score to one of his productions and it was written in six weeks with Arthur Johnston. The main theme, used as a leitmotif for the blind flower girl, is the song "La Violetera" ("Who'll Buy my Violets") from Spanish composer José Padilla. Chaplin lost a lawsuit to Padilla for not crediting him.  "City Lights" was immediately successful upon release on January 30, 1931, with positive reviews and worldwide rentals of more than $4 million. Today, many critics consider it not only the highest accomplishment of Chaplin's career, but one of the greatest films of all time. Chaplin biographer Jeffrey Vance believes ""City Lights" is not only Charles Chaplin's masterpiece; it is an act of defiance" as it premiered four years into the era of sound films which began with the premiere of "The Jazz Singer" (1927). In 1991, the Library of Congress selected "City Lights" for preservation in the United States National Film Registry as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". In 2007, the American Film Institute ranked it 11th on its list of the best American films ever made. In 1949, the critic James Agee called the film's final scene "the greatest single piece of acting ever committed to celluloid".
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] Dark City (1998 film)  Dark City is a 1998 neo-noir science fiction film directed by Alex Proyas and starring Rufus Sewell, William Hurt, Kiefer Sutherland, Jennifer Connelly, Richard O'Brien, and Ian Richardson. The screenplay was written by Proyas, Lem Dobbs, and David S. Goyer. In the film, Sewell plays an amnesiac man who, finding himself suspected of murder, attempts to discover his true identity and clear his name while on the run from the police and a mysterious group known as the "Strangers".  Primarily shot at Fox Studios Australia, the film was jointly produced by New Line Cinema and Proyas' production company Mystery Clock Cinema, and distributed by the former for theatrical release. It premiered in the United States on 27 February 1998 and received generally positive critiques, but it was a box-office bomb. Roger Ebert, in particular, supported the film, appreciating its art direction, set design, cinematography, special effects, and imagination, and even recorded an audio commentary for the film's home video release.  The film was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and six Saturn Awards. Some critics later noted "Dark City"s similarities to and influence on the "Matrix" film series, whose first installment came out a year later, and the film is now widely considered a sci-fi cult classic.  Concerned that audiences would not understand the film, New Line asked Proyas to add an explanatory voice-over to the introduction, and he complied. When a director's cut of the film was released in 2008, among the changes was the removal of the opening narration.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] City Slickers  City Slickers is a 1991 American comedy film, directed by Ron Underwood and starring Billy Crystal, Daniel Stern, Bruno Kirby, and Jack Palance, with supporting roles by Patricia Wettig, Helen Slater, and Noble Willingham with Jake Gyllenhaal in his debut. For his performance, Jack Palance won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.  The film's screenplay was written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel, and it was shot in New York City; New Mexico; Durango, Colorado; and Spain. A sequel "" was released in 1994, with the same cast, with the exception of Kirby, who was replaced by Jon Lovitz.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] The Lost City (2022 film)  The Lost City is a 2022 American action-adventure comedy film directed by the Nee brothers, who co-wrote the screenplay with Oren Uziel and Dana Fox, from a story conceived by Seth Gordon. It stars Sandra Bullock and Channing Tatum as a romance novelist and her cover model respectively who must escape a billionaire (Daniel Radcliffe) and find the lost ancient city described in one of her books. The film co-stars Da'Vine Joy Randolph and Brad Pitt.  The project was announced in October 2020, with Bullock joining as producer and star and Tatum joining that December; the rest of the cast was announced the following year. Filming took place in the Dominican Republic from May to August 2021. The film premiered at South by Southwest on March 12, 2022, and was theatrically released by Paramount Pictures in the United States on March 25, 2022. It received generally positive reviews from critics and grossed over $190 million worldwide against a $68–74 million budget.
Who was the screenwriter for The City? [SEP] Asteroid City  Asteroid City is an upcoming American romantic comedy-drama film written, directed, and produced by Wes Anderson. The cast has been described as being "larger than most other Anderson films that are ensemble in nature."
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]  Jackson: My Life... Your Fault is a 1995 gay-themed film directed by Duncan Roy starring Benjamin Soames and Alan Gilchrist.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]  Jackson (Benjamin Soames) has lived sheltered with his mother since his father's death when he was a little boy. He remembers the event from childhood, and is still troubled by it. His mother (Georgina Hale), is over-protective, and plays upon Jackson's emotions to keep him tied to her. On meeting an attractive policeman, he needs to decide whether to grow up or not.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]  film representative and most successful writers for Hollywood talking films. entered films in 1918 as publicity representative He was elected president of the Wampas, organization of the publicity and advertising men, in 1923. He later joined the ranks of scenario writers and for the last five years had been turning out screen plays for Warner Brothers First National Pictures. He wrote the script and dialogue for :The Singing Fool", "The Terror", "My Man", "Tenderloin", "Those Who Dance", Fifty Million Frenchmen", "Smart Money" and scores of others. He also was author of many vaudeville play-lets. He was married to Ethel Shannon former actress and had a 4-year-old son. He married April 10, 1927, at the Wilshire Boulevard Congregational Church, Los Angeles
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]  Philip Barry's 1928 play of the same name, would be honored with an Academy Award nomination at the 4th Academy Awards in 1932, however, he lost to the big winner of those awards, Cimarron (written by Howard Estabrook). He was also reported as one of a plethora of writers who worked on the screenplay for the 1942 film The Night Before the Divorce, although he received no screenplay credit. In 1947, he sued Republic Pictures for plagiarism regarding the film Calendar Girl (1947). According to a 1949 New York Times article, Jackson and his writing partner, Irene Homer, were successful in their suit, receiving a "substantial sum". On January 26, 1952 Jackson would die in a car accident.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]  Frederick J. Jackson (September 21, 1886 &ndash; May 22, 1953) was an American author, playwright and screenwriter. He wrote for over 50 films between 1912 and 1946. Over a forty-year span, a dozen of his plays were produced on Broadway. Several of his plays were turned into films, including The Bishop Misbehaves. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and died in Hollywood, California.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP] Duncan Roy  Duncan Roy (born 8 July 1960) is an English film director and producer, script writer, art director and television personality.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP] Georgina Hale  Georgina Hale (born 4 August 1943) is an English film, television and stage actress. She is best known for her roles in the films of director Ken Russell, including "The Devils" (1971), "The Boy Friend" (1971), and "Mahler" (1974), for which she received a BAFTA Film Award. An accomplished stage actress, she received an Olivier Award nomination for her leading performance in "Steaming" (1981). She has appeared in a number of television plays, and in 2010, "The Guardian" listed her as one of 10 great character actors in British television. She remains active in film, television and theatre.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP] The Fault in Our Stars (film)  The Fault in Our Stars is a 2014 American coming-of-age romance film directed by Josh Boone, based on John Green's 2012 novel of the same name. The film stars Shailene Woodley and Ansel Elgort, with Laura Dern, Sam Trammell, Nat Wolff, and Willem Dafoe in supporting roles. Woodley plays a sixteen-year-old cancer patient forced by her parents to attend a support group, where she meets and subsequently falls in love with another cancer patient, played by Elgort.  Development began in January 2012 when Fox 2000, a division of 20th Century Fox, optioned the rights to adapt the novel into a feature film. Principal photography began on August 26, 2013, in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, with a few additional days in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, before concluding on October 16, 2013. Pittsburgh doubled for all of the scenes set in Indianapolis, Indiana, the novel's setting, as well as for some interior scenes set in Amsterdam.  "The Fault in Our Stars" had its world premiere at Seattle International Film Festival on May 16, 2014, and was released in North America on June 6, 2014, by 20th Century Fox. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, with praise given to Woodley's and Elgort's performances and chemistry together, as well as the screenplay. The film was number one at the box office during its opening weekend and grossed $307million worldwide against a budget of $12million. It was released on Blu-ray and DVD on September 16, 2014, and earned $42million in total domestic video sales.
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Jackson: My Life... Your Fault? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]  Three Loves in Rio (Meus Amores no Rio, Mis amores en Río) is a 1959 Brazilian-Argentine drama film directed by Carlos Hugo Christensen. It was entered into the 9th Berlin International Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]  The participating directors were Brazilians Carlos Saldanha (Ice Age and Rio), José Padilha (Elite Squad), Andrucha Waddington (The House of Sand) and Fernando Meirelles (City of God), the Lebanese director Nadine Labaki (Caramel), the Mexican screenwriter Guillermo Arriaga (Babel), the Australian director Stephan Elliott (The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert), the Italian director Paolo Sorrentino (The Great Beauty), the American actor and director John Turturro, and the South Korean director Im Sang-soo (A Good Lawyer's Wife, The Housemaid). The opening and closing sequences, plus the transitions were directed by Brazilian Vicente Amorim, while musician Gilberto Gil composed the theme song. Those responsible for producing the film, among them Rio Filme, disclosed that the cost of production was R$20 million.
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]  Renê Belmonte (born January 27, 1971 in São Paulo) is a Brazilian TV and movie screenwriter. Belmonte studied advertising at ESPM in São Paulo then studied moviewriting in London at City Lit. After moving to Rio de Janeiro in 2001 he worked at Total Entertainment for three years, evaluating and developing projects in-house. Since 1999 he has been giving screenwriting courses and workshops for different schools and entities. In television he was segment producer and headwriter for the reality show Temptation Island Brazil (for SBT) and staff writer of the comedy show Sob Nova Direção (TV Globo). In 2006 he was the creator and headwriter of the sitcom Avassaladoras for Fox Television and Record. For the big screen he wrote Sexo, amor e traição (2004), directed by Jorge Fernando, and Se eu fosse você (2006), directed by Daniel Filho, two of the biggest hits in the recent Brazilian filmography. His latest works include the German film Showdebola, directed by Alexander Pickl, and Sexo com Amor, directed by Wolf Maya, with a 2008 summer release date. He also wrote the script of Entre Sábanas, a Colombian film by Gustavo Nieto Roa currently filming in Bogotá.
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]  Rio, I Love You (Rio, Eu Te Amo) is a 2014 Brazilian anthology film starring an ensemble cast of actors of various nationalities. It's the third film in the Cities of Love franchise (following 2006's Paris, je t'aime and the 2008 film New York, I Love You), created and produced by Emmanuel Benbihy.
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]  Tina Modotti for Mick Jagger's Jagged Films and Warner Brothers. In 2010 Love wrote the screenplay for the Spanish language film La Leyenda De Las Arcas released in 2011. Most recently, Michael wrote the original screenplay for the English language historical epic Cristiada directed by Dean Wright and produced by NewLand Films about the Cristero War in Mexico (1926–1929), starring Andy García, Peter O'Toole, Bruce Greenwood, Eva Longoria, and Rubén Blades. "Cristiada" aka "For Greater Glory" was released internationally by Relativity Media and Arc Entertainment and was nominated for five Alma Awards. As a writer, producer, director, Michael Love made three feature films
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP] Rio 2  Rio 2 is a 2014 American 3D computer-animated musical comedy film produced by Blue Sky Studios and directed by Carlos Saldanha. It is the sequel to the 2011 computer-animated film "Rio" and the second installment of the "Rio" franchise. The title refers to the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro, where the first film was set and "Rio 2" begins, though most of its plot occurs in the Amazon rainforest. The film stars Jesse Eisenberg, Anne Hathaway, will.i.am, Jamie Foxx, George Lopez, Tracy Morgan, Jemaine Clement, Leslie Mann, Rodrigo Santoro, and Jake T. Austin reprising their roles from the first film with new members including Bruno Mars, Andy Garcia, Rita Moreno, Rachel Crow, Kristin Chenoweth, Amandla Stenberg, Pierce Gagnon, and Miguel Ferrer (in his final theatrical film before his death in 2017).  "Rio 2" was released internationally on March 20, 2014,<ref name=Cast /> and on April 11, 2014,<ref name="Cast" /> in American theaters by 20th Century Fox. It grossed $498 million worldwide, against a production budget of $103 million, and received mixed reviews from critics, garnering praise for the animation, voice acting and songs, but criticism for the story and writing. The film is dedicated to the memory of screenwriter Don Rhymer, who died on November 28, 2012. This was Blue Sky Studios' first and only follow-up film outside the "Ice Age" franchise. This was also the final "Rio" film to be produced by Blue Sky Studios before its closure on April 10, 2021.<ref name="Deadline0902" /> A third film is in development.<ref name="rio3" />
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP] Rio (2011 film)  Rio is a 2011 American 3D computer-animated musical adventure comedy film produced by Blue Sky Studios and 20th Century Fox Animation, and directed by Carlos Saldanha. The title refers to the Brazilian city of Rio de Janeiro,<ref name="Variety" /> where the film is set. The film features the voices of Jesse Eisenberg, Anne Hathaway, Leslie Mann, Rodrigo Santoro, Jemaine Clement, George Lopez, Tracy Morgan, will.i.am, and Jamie Foxx. It tells the story of Blu (Eisenberg), a domesticated male Spix's macaw who is taken to Rio de Janeiro to mate with a free-spirited female Spix's macaw, Jewel (Hathaway). The two eventually fall in love, and together they have to escape from being smuggled by Nigel (Clement), a cockatoo.  Saldanha developed his first story concept of "Rio" in 2005, in which a penguin is washed up in Rio. Saldanha learned of the production of the films "Happy Feet" (2006) and "Surf's Up" (2007), and changed the concept to involve macaws and their environments in Rio. He proposed his idea to Chris Wedge in 2006, and the project was set up at Blue Sky. The main voice actors were approached in 2009. During production, the crew visited Rio de Janeiro and also consulted with an expert on macaws at the Bronx Zoo to study their movements.  "Rio" premiered on March 22, 2011, in Lagoa, Rio de Janeiro, followed by its general release on April 15, 2011, by 20th Century Fox. The film received generally positive reviews from film critics, who praised the visuals, voice acting and music. The film was also a box office success, grossing over $143 million in the United States and $484 million worldwide. The film was nominated for Best Original Song for the song "Real in Rio" at the 84th Academy Awards, but lost to the other nominee, "Man or Muppet" from "The Muppets". A sequel, "Rio 2", was released on April 11, 2014.
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP] Notorious (1946 film)  Notorious is a 1946 American spy film noir directed and produced by Alfred Hitchcock, starring Cary Grant, Ingrid Bergman, and Claude Rains as three people whose lives become intimately entangled during an espionage operation.  The film follows U.S. government agent T.R. Devlin (Grant), who enlists the help of Alicia Huberman (Bergman), the daughter of a German war criminal, to infiltrate a circle of executives of IG Farben hiding out in Rio de Janeiro after World War II. The situation becomes complicated when the two fall in love as Huberman is instructed to seduce Alex Sebastian (Rains), a Farben executive who had previously been infatuated with her. It was shot in late 1945 and early 1946, and was released by RKO Radio Pictures in August 1946.  "Notorious" is considered by critics and scholars to mark a watershed for Hitchcock artistically, and to represent a heightened thematic maturity. His biographer, Donald Spoto, writes that ""Notorious" is in fact Alfred Hitchcock's first attempt—at the age of forty-six—to bring his talents to the creation of a serious love story, and its story of two men in love with Ingrid Bergman could only have been made at this stage of his life." In 2006, "Notorious" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the screenwriter for Three Loves in Rio? [SEP] One-Eyed Jacks  One-Eyed Jacks is a 1961 American Western film directed by and starring Marlon Brando, his only directorial credit. Brando portrays the lead character Rio, and Karl Malden plays his partner, "Dad" Longworth. The supporting cast features Pina Pellicer, Katy Jurado, Ben Johnson and Slim Pickens.  In 2018, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  Arvidson wrote screenplays, including the one for the five-reel Who's Guilty Now? She was an associate editor of Film Fun and a film critic for Leslie's Magazine, and she wrote the book When the Movies Were Young.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The episode was written by series executive producer and showrunner Howard Gordon and consulting producer Evan Katz, and was directed by Jeffrey Reiner. It marked both Gordon and Katz's first writing credit in the series, and director Reiner's second directing credit, with the last episode he directed being "The Little Guy", the second episode aired on March 8, 2012. This is the first episode that was not written by series creator and executive producer Kyle Killen.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The Guilty is a 2000 American crime film directed by Anthony Waller and starring Bill Pullman, Devon Sawa, Gabrielle Anwar, Angela Featherstone and Joanne Whalley. The film is a remake of the 1992 UK TV two-part telemovie of the same name and identical plot starring Michael Kitchen, Sean Gallagher, Caroline Catz and Carol Starks.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The Guilty is a 1947 film noir directed by John Reinhardt, based on Cornell Woolrich's short story "Two Men in a Furnished Room". The film was produced by oil millionaire Jack Wrather, the husband of lead actress Bonita Granville.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP]  The episode was written by Nikki Toscano, while being directed by CSI: Crime Scene Investigation veteran Kenneth Fink.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty by Suspicion  Guilty by Suspicion is a 1991 American drama film about the Hollywood blacklist, McCarthyism, and the activities of the House Un-American Activities Committee. Written and directed by Irwin Winkler, it stars Robert De Niro, Annette Bening, and George Wendt. The character of David Merrill was inspired by the experiences of John Berry during the Hollywood blacklist era.  The film was entered into the 1991 Cannes Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty Gear Strive  "Guilty Gear Strive" received generally positive reviews from critics, who praised its visuals, gameplay and netcode, and has sold over one million units as of August 2022.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilt (British TV series)  Guilt is a Scottish thriller and mystery series, which was the first drama commission of the new BBC Scotland channel and first broadcast there before being broadcast on BBC Two. Written and created by Neil Forsyth, the show initially centres on two brothers, played by Mark Bonnar and Jamie Sives, who get involved in a hit and run, before involving a large number of cast in an ongoing story. The first series of "Guilt" was broadcast in 2019, and the second series broadcast in the autumn of 2021. The show was a critical hit and was subsequently broadcast around the world including in America (PBS), France (Arte), Australia (BBC First), Sweden (Sveriges Television), Germany (Arte), Portugal (RTP2) and South Africa (Showmax).
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] The Guilt Trip (film)  The Guilt Trip is a 2012 American road comedy film directed by Anne Fletcher from a screenplay written by Dan Fogelman, starring Barbra Streisand and Seth Rogen, who both also served as executive producers on the film. The film was released on December 19, 2012, received mixed reviews from critics, and grossed $41 million on a production budget of $40 million.
Who was the screenwriter for Guilty? [SEP] Guilty Conscience (song)  "Guilty Conscience" is a song by American rapper Eminem, featuring American hip hop producer Dr. Dre. It was released as the third and final single from Eminem's "The Slim Shady LP" (1999). It was also released on his 2005 greatest hits album "".
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]  "The Return" was written by Michael Schur, Lee Eisenberg, and Gene Stupnitsky, while series creator and executive producer Greg Daniels directed and Dean Holland edited. The original title of this episode was "Oscar's Return", a reference to the reappearance of actor Oscar Nunez, who had temporarily left the series after the season premiere. Nunez spent the interim working on the Comedy Central series Halfway Home. It was the last episode Daniels filmed before the Thanksgiving holiday, the start of an eight-week break for the cast and crew. Then-president of NBC Entertainment Kevin Reilly played Dwight's first interviewer. Ed Helms noted in the audio commentary that his mother had trouble watching a string of episodes that included "The Return" because
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]  The Returned (Retornados) is a 2013 Spanish-Canadian thriller film directed by Manuel Carballo, written by Hatem Khraiche, and starring Emily Hampshire, Kris Holden-Ried, Shawn Doyle, and Claudia Bassols. When a rare and difficult to obtain medicine that requires daily doses to stave off the effects of a zombie infection runs low, a physician (Hampshire) and her infected husband (Holden-Ried) go on the run to avoid angry demonstrators.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]  Return is a 2011 independent film about an American reservist, wife and mother returning home from her tour of duty in the Middle East. The film was written and directed by Liza Johnson, and stars Linda Cardellini, Michael Shannon and John Slattery. It is Johnson's first feature-length film, and received good reviews at its premiere at the Cannes Film Festival Directors' Fortnight. Linda Cardellini was nominated for an Independent Spirit Award for Best Female Lead for her performance in the film.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]  The Returned is an American supernatural drama television series developed by Carlton Cuse as an adaptation of the 2012 French series Les Revenants, which was broadcast internationally as The Returned. The American adapted series follows residents in a small town whose lives are disrupted when people who have been dead for many years begin reappearing. Cuse wrote the pilot episode and executive produced the series alongside Raelle Tucker. The series premiered on March 9, 2015 and was cancelled by A&E after one season, on June 15, 2015.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]  The Return is a 2006 American psychological horror film directed by Asif Kapadia and starring Sarah Michelle Gellar, Kate Beahan, Peter O'Brien, and Sam Shepard. It was released theatrically on November 10, 2006, and on DVD on February 27, 2007. The Blu-ray was released on October 6, 2009.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP] Return of the Jedi  Return of the Jedi (also known as Star Wars: Episode VI – Return of the Jedi is a 1983 American epic space opera film directed by Richard Marquand. The screenplay is by Lawrence Kasdan and George Lucas from a story by Lucas, who was also the executive producer. The sequel to "Star Wars" (1977) and "The Empire Strikes Back" (1980), it is the third installment in the original "Star Wars" trilogy, the third film to be produced, and the sixth chronological film in the "Skywalker Saga". The film stars Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Billy Dee Williams, Anthony Daniels, David Prowse, Kenny Baker, Peter Mayhew and Frank Oz.  Set one year after "The Empire Strikes Back", the Galactic Empire is constructing a second Death Star to exterminate the Rebel Alliance. With intel that the Emperor will be onboard, the Rebel fleet launches a full-scale attack on the Death Star in hopes of both destroying it and the Emperor. Meanwhile, Rebel hero Luke Skywalker, now a Jedi Knight, struggles to bring his father, Darth Vader, back to the light side of the Force.  Following Lucas and Kasdan's discussion on making "Return of the Jedi", the film went into production. Steven Spielberg, David Lynch and David Cronenberg were considered to direct the project before Marquand signed on as director. The production team relied on Lucas' storyboards during pre-production. While writing the shooting script, Lucas, Kasdan, Marquand, and producer Howard Kazanjian spent two weeks in conference discussing ideas to construct it. Kazanjian's schedule pushed shooting to begin a few weeks early to allow Industrial Light & Magic more time to work on the film's effects in post-production. Filming took place in England, California, and Arizona from January to .  The film was released in theaters on May 25, 1983. It grossed $374 million during its initial theatrical run, becoming the highest-grossing film of 1983. Overall, the film was well-received by critics, with strong praise going to the special effects and action sequences, performances, John Williams' score, and emotional weight. While retrospective reviews have remained positive, "Return of the Jedi" is widely considered to be the weakest film in the original trilogy. Several re-releases and revisions to the film have followed over the decades, which has also brought its total gross to $475 million. The United States Library of Congress selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry in 2021.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP] Superman Returns  Superman Returns is a 2006 American superhero film directed by Bryan Singer and written by Michael Dougherty and Dan Harris from a story by Singer, Dougherty and Harris based on the DC Comics character Superman. It is the sixth and final installment in the original "Superman" film series and serves as an homage sequel to "Superman" (1978) and "Superman II" (1980), while ignoring the events of "Superman III" (1983), "Supergirl" (1984), and "" (1987).<ref name="ct"/> The film stars Brandon Routh as Clark Kent/Superman, Kate Bosworth as Lois Lane, Kevin Spacey as Lex Luthor, with James Marsden, Frank Langella, and Parker Posey. The film tells the story of the title character returning to Earth after a five-year absence. He finds that his love interest Lois Lane has moved on with her life, and that his archenemy Lex Luthor is plotting a scheme to kill Superman and reshape North America.  After a series of unsuccessful projects to resurrect "Superman" on screen following the critical and financial failure of "The Quest for Peace", Warner Bros. Pictures hired Bryan Singer to direct and develop "Superman Returns" in July 2004. The majority of principal photography took place at Fox Studios Australia, Sydney, while the visual effects sequences were created by a number of studios, including Sony Pictures Imageworks, Rhythm & Hues, Framestore, Rising Sun Pictures, and The Orphanage; filming began in March 2005 and ended in November.  Upon release, the film received generally positive reviews from critics, who complimented its visual effects, story, and Singer's direction. However, it received criticism focusing on its runtime and lack of action sequences. Even though it was the ninth highest-grossing film of 2006, Warner Bros. was disappointed with the worldwide box office return of the film, cancelling a sequel planned for 2009 as a result. The "Superman" film series was completely rebooted in 2013 with "Man of Steel", directed by Zack Snyder, starring Henry Cavill as Superman, and launching the DC Extended Universe. Routh later reprised his role as Superman in the 2019 Arrowverse crossover "Crisis on Infinite Earths".
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP] The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King  The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King is a 2003 epic fantasy adventure film directed by Peter Jackson from a screenplay by Fran Walsh, Philippa Boyens, and Jackson, based on 1955's "The Return of the King", the third volume of the novel "The Lord of the Rings" by J. R. R. Tolkien. The sequel to 2002's " ", the film is the final installment in "The Lord of the Rings" trilogy. It features an ensemble cast including Elijah Wood, Ian McKellen, Liv Tyler, Viggo Mortensen, Sean Astin, Cate Blanchett, John Rhys-Davies, Bernard Hill, Billy Boyd, Dominic Monaghan, Orlando Bloom, Hugo Weaving, Miranda Otto, David Wenham, Karl Urban, John Noble, Andy Serkis, Ian Holm, and Sean Bean.  Continuing the plot of the previous film, Frodo, Sam and Gollum are making their final way toward Mount Doom in Mordor in order to destroy the One Ring, unaware of Gollum's true intentions, while Merry, Pippin, Gandalf, Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli and the rest are joining forces together against Sauron and his legions in Minas Tirith.  "The Return of the King" was financed and distributed by American studio New Line Cinema, but filmed and edited entirely in Jackson's native New Zealand, concurrently with the other two parts of the trilogy. It premiered on 1 December 2003 at the Embassy Theatre in Wellington, and was then released on 17 December 2003 in the United States and on 18 December 2003 in New Zealand. The film was acclaimed by both critics and audiences, who considered it to be a landmark in filmmaking and the fantasy film genre, with praise for the visual effects, performances, action sequences, direction, screenplay, musical score, costume design and emotional depth. It grossed over $1.1 billion worldwide, making it the highest-grossing film of 2003 and the second highest-grossing film of all time at the time of its release, as well as the highest-grossing film released by New Line Cinema.  Like the other films in the trilogy, "The Return of the King" is widely recognized as one of the greatest and most influential films ever made. The film received numerous accolades; at the 76th Academy Awards, it won all eleven awards for which it was nominated, including Best Picture, tying with 1959's "Ben-Hur" and 1997's "Titanic" as the movie with the most Academy Award wins. It also became the second film series whose entries have all won Best Visual Effects, after the original "Star Wars" trilogy.
Who was the screenwriter for The Return? [SEP] The Return of the Living Dead  The Return of the Living Dead is a 1985 American comedy horror film written and directed by Dan O'Bannon in his directorial debut, and starring Clu Gulager, James Karen, Thom Matthews and Don Calfa. The film tells the story of how a warehouse owner, accompanied by his two employees, mortician friend and a group of teenage punks, deal with the accidental release of a horde of unkillable, brain-hungry zombies onto an unsuspecting town.  The film, described as a "mordant punk comedy,"  The movie's soundtrack was noteworthy, as it featured several Los Angeles-based deathrock and punk rock bands of the era. The film was a critical success and performed moderately well at the box office. The film has spawned four sequels.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]  The episode was written by consulting producer Lisa Zwerling, and directed by Aaron Lipstadt; it was Zwerling and Lipstadt's first writing credit, and was Lipstadt's first directing credit on the series. This is the second episode that was not written by series creator and executive producer Kyle Killen, with the last episode he wrote being "Guilty". Although it was the fifth broadcast episode, it was originally scheduled to be the fourth episode of the season, with the production code being "1ATR03" due to NBC's decision to change the broadcasting order.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]  rich kid, also fashioned after street hustlers Van Sant had met in Portland. Early drafts of the screenplay were set on Hollywood Boulevard, not Portland, with working titles such as Blue Funk and Minions of the Moon. Rechy's novel inspired Van Sant to change the setting to Portland. The script originally consisted of two separate scenarios: the first (Modern Days) recounted Mike's story; the second updated the Henry IV plays with Scott's story. Van Sant realized he could blend the two stories together in the manner of William S. Burroughs' "cut up" technique. In essence, this method involves various story fragments and ideas mixed and matched
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]  Keith Scribner is an American novelist, short-story writer, screenwriter, essayist, and educator. His third novel, The Oregon Experiment, was published by Alfred A. Knopf (Random House) in June 2011. He is a professor of English at Oregon State University, where he teaches in the School of Writing, Literature, and Film. Scribner received his BA from Vassar College and was a Wallace Stegner Fellow at Stanford University, where he later taught as a Jones Lecturer. He has received fellowships from Oregon State University's Center for the Humanities. His first novel, The GoodLife, was included in the annual New York Times "Notable Books" list for the year 2000, and a Barnes & Noble "Discover Great New Writers" selection.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]  Walt Curtis (born July 4, 1941) is a poet, novelist and painter from Portland, Oregon. His autobiographical work, Mala Noche (1977), became the basis for Gus Van Sant's 1985 film of the same name. He was the co-founder of the Oregon Cultural Heritage Commission. He has hosted the poetry radio show "Talking Earth" at KBOO since 1971. He has written about and championed Oregon literary figures such as Joaquin Miller, Hazel Hall, Frances Fuller Victor, and many others. Portland Mayor Sam Adams declared July 1–7, 2010 "Walt Curtis Week."
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]  Jonathan Raymond is an American writer living in Portland, Oregon. He is best known for writing the novels The Half-Life and Rain Dragon, and for writing the short stories or novels for the films Old Joy, Wendy and Lucy, and First Cow, all directed by Kelly Reichardt, with whom he co-wrote the screenplays. As a screenwriter, Raymond wrote the scripts for Meek's Cutoff and Night Moves, and was nominated for a Primetime Emmy for his teleplay writing on the HBO miniseries, Mildred Pierce.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP] Mike Rich  Michael A. Rich (born 1959) is an American screenwriter best known for his writing on sports-related films.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP] List of Oregon Ducks athletic directors  The University of Oregon Athletic Department has existed in its current hierarchical state with a Director of Athletics at the top of the department and assistant and associate directors serving as subordinates since 1947. In that time there have been twelve Directors of Athletics. Three former head football coaches, Len Casanova, Rich Brooks and Mike Bellotti have gone on to serve as Director of Athletics at some point after their coaching careers. The current Director of Athletics is Rob Mullens, he has held his post since July 15, 2010.
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP] List of people from Portland, Oregon  Portland is a port city in the U.S. state of Oregon located at the confluence of the Willamette and Columbia Rivers. Established in the 1830s as a camp along the Oregon Trail, Portland evolved into a major West Coast industrial city during the twentieth century. Contemporarily, it is the most populous city in Oregon, and the second-largest city in the Pacific Northwest.  This list of notable people includes persons who were either born in, are current residents of, or have lived in Portland. A person who lives in or comes from Portland, Oregon is called a "Portlander".
Who was the screenwriter for Oregon? [SEP] List of people from Oregon  This is a list of notable people associated with the U.S. state of Oregon through birth and/or residence.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP]  This was the second episode written by supervising producer Gennifer Hutchison for the series. It was directed by Larysa Kondracki.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP]  Bingo Hell is a 2021 American comedy horror film directed by Gigi Saul Guerrero from a screenplay that she co-wrote with Shane McKenzie and Perry Blackshear. The film is the fifth installment in the anthological Welcome to the Blumhouse film series. The film stars Adriana Barraza, L. Scott Caldwell, and Joshua Caleb Johnson. The film premiered at Fantastic Fest on September 24, 2021. The film was released in the United States on October 1, 2021 by Amazon Studios.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP]  William Brashler (born 1947) is an American author and journalist. He is best known for writing The Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars and Motor Kings, which was published in 1973. A film adaptation, directed by John Badham and starring Richard Pryor and Billy Dee Williams, was released in 1976. Bingo Long was chosen as one of the top 100 sports books of all time by Sports Illustrated, in 2002. The 20th anniversary edition of the book included a preface by sports historian Peter C. Bjarkman.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP]  The Bingo Palace is a novel written by Louise Erdrich published in 1994, with three chapters appearing in the Georgia Review, The New Yorker, and Granta. It is the fourth novel in Erdrich's Love Medicine series, and it follows Lipsha Morrissey as he is summoned home by his grandmother Lulu Lamartine. He returns home to the reservation for the first time in years and finds himself in rapture of a woman named Shawnee Ray. The novel discusses themes of family and identity from an Anishinaabe perspective.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP]  Bingo is a 1998 computer-animated short film directed by Chris Landreth. The short is based on the stage play Disregard This Play by the theater troupe The Neo Futurists. It uses surrealistic imagery and dialogue to tell the story of an ordinary man who is surrounded by characters who insist that he is someone named "Bingo the Clown" even though he is not. Eventually, the man is worn down by their unwavering insistence and comes to believe that he is Bingo the Clown. At the time of Bingo's creation, Landreth was employed as an animator at AliasWavefront, and the film was used to demonstrate the capabilities of the company's new Maya animation software.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP] Bluey (2018 TV series)  Bluey is an Australian preschool animated television series that premiered on ABC Kids on 1 October 2018. The program was created by Joe Brumm and is produced by Queensland-based company Ludo Studio. It was commissioned by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation and the British Broadcasting Corporation, with BBC Studios holding global distribution and merchandising rights. The series made its premiere on Disney Junior in the United States and is released internationally on Disney+.  The show follows Bluey, an anthropomorphic six-year-old Blue Heeler puppy who is characterised by her abundance of energy, imagination and curiosity of the world. The young dog lives with her father, Bandit; mother, Chilli; and younger sister, Bingo, who regularly joins Bluey on adventures as the pair embark on imaginative play together. Other characters featured each represent a different dog breed. Overarching themes include the focus on family, growing up and Australian culture. The program was created and is produced in Queensland; its capital city Brisbane inspires the show's setting.  "Bluey" has received consistently high viewership in Australia on both broadcast television and video on demand services. It has influenced the development of merchandise and a stage show featuring its characters. The program has won two Logie Awards for Most Outstanding Children's Program as well as an International Emmy Kids Award in 2019. It has been praised by television critics for depicting a modern everyday family life, constructive parenting messages and the role of Bandit as a positive father figure. "Bluey" was renewed for a third series in October 2020.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP] Beach Blanket Bingo  Beach Blanket Bingo is a 1965 American beach party film directed by William Asher. It is the fifth film in the Beach Party film series. The film stars Frankie Avalon, Annette Funicello, Linda Evans, Deborah Walley, Paul Lynde, and Don Rickles. Earl Wilson and Buster Keaton appear. Evans's singing voice was dubbed by Jackie Ward.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP] Bingo (folk song)  "Bingo" (also known as "Bingo Was His Name-O", "There Was a Farmer Had a Dog" or "B-I-N-G-O") is an English language children's song of obscure origin. Additional verses are sung by omitting the first letter sung in the previous verse and clapping or barking the number of times instead of actually saying each letter. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 589.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP] Bingo (1974 film)  Bingo is a 1974 French-Canadian thriller directed by Jean-Claude Lord. The plot relates to Quebec's October Crisis of 1970.
Who was the screenwriter for Bingo? [SEP] Bingo (Better Call Saul)  "Bingo" is the seventh episode of the first season of the AMC television series "Better Call Saul", the spinoff series of "Breaking Bad". The episode aired on March 16, 2015 on AMC in the United States. Outside of the United States, the episode premiered on streaming service Netflix in several countries.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP]  Vampire, Cruise met De Palma during a dinner with Steven Spielberg and was impressed by his filmography, so when he went back home, saw all De Palma's films and convinced himself to have De Palma hired to direct Mission: Impossible. They went through two screenplay drafts that no one liked. De Palma brought in screenwriters Steve Zaillian, David Koepp, and finally Robert Towne. When the film was green-lit Koepp was initially fired with Robert Towne being the lead writer and Koepp being brought back on later. According to the director, the goal of the script was to "constantly surprise the audience." Reportedly, Koepp was paid $1 million to rewrite an original script
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP]  Towne wrote the script for Days of Thunder (1990) and formed a close friendship with its star Tom Cruise. He was one of the writers on Cruise's The Firm (1993), then Beatty's Love Affair (1994). Cruise brought him on to Mission: Impossible (1996) and co-produced Towne's third film as director, Without Limits (1998). He also co-wrote Mission Impossible II (2000) for Cruise.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP]  The 1968 film version, which premiered December 5, was adapted by George Wells and directed by Michael Gordon. It starred David Niven, Lola Albright, Chad Everett, Ozzie Nelson, Cristina Ferrare, Gale Dixon and Darlene Carr. The eponymous theme song was written by The Tokens and performed by The Cowsills.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP]  Sandra Wollner (born 1983) is an Austrian film director and screenwriter. She made her feature directorial debut with The Impossible Picture (2016), and also directed and co-wrote The Trouble with Being Born (2020).
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP]  The Saint of the Impossible is a 2020 Swiss drama film written by Lani-Rain Feltham and Marc Raymond Wilkins, who is also the director in his directional debut. The film stars Magaly Solier, Marcelo Durand, Adriano Durand, Tara Thaller and Simon Käser.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP] Mission: Impossible (film series)  Mission: Impossible is a series of American action spy films based on and a follow-on from the created by Bruce Geller. The series is mainly produced by and stars Tom Cruise, whose plays Ethan Hunt, an agent of the Impossible Missions Force (IMF). The films have been directed, written, and scored by various filmmakers and crew, while incorporating musical themes from the original series by Lalo Schifrin.  Starting in 1996, the films (taking place starting six years after the events of the ) follow the missions of the IMF's main field team, under Hunt's leadership, to stop an enemy force and prevent an impending global disaster. The series focuses on Hunt's character, as opposed to the television series's ensemble cast structure, although some characters, such as Luther Stickell (played by Ving Rhames) and Benji Dunn (played by Simon Pegg) have recurring roles.  The series has been positively received from critics and audiences. It the 16th-highest-grossing film series of all time, earning over $3.5 billion worldwide, and is often cited as one of the best action franchises to date. The sixth and most recent film, titled "", was released on July 27, 2018 and is currently the series's highest-grossing entry. The seventh and eighth films, two feature-length parts titled "Dead Reckoning", will serve as a bookend to the series. "" will be released in July 2023, and in June 2024.  The films are co-produced and released by Paramount Pictures and are rated PG-13 by the Motion Picture Association.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP] Christopher McQuarrie  Christopher McQuarrie is an American filmmaker. He received the BAFTA Award, Independent Spirit Award, and Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay for the neo-noir mystery film "The Usual Suspects" (1995).  He made his directorial debut with the crime thriller film "The Way of the Gun" (2000). He is a frequent collaborator with Tom Cruise, having written and directed the action films "Jack Reacher" (2012), "" (2015), "" (2018), and the upcoming sequels "" (2023) and "" (2024), in addition to producing the latter three, while also being a part of the writing and/or producing team on the films "Valkyrie" (2008), "Edge of Tomorrow" (2014), "" (2016), "The Mummy" (2017), and "" (2022).
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP] Mission: Impossible – Fallout  Mission: Impossible – Fallout is a 2018 American action spy film written and directed by Christopher McQuarrie. It is the sequel to "" (2015) and is the sixth installment in the . The film stars Tom Cruise, Ving Rhames, Simon Pegg, Rebecca Ferguson, Henry Cavill, Sean Harris, Michelle Monaghan, and Alec Baldwin. In "Mission: Impossible – Fallout", Ethan Hunt (Cruise) and his Impossible Missions Force (IMF) team seek to prevent nuclear weapon technology from reaching the Apostles, a bioterrorist offshoot of the Syndicate.  Talks for a sixth "Mission: Impossible" film began before the release of its predecessor in 2015. "Mission: Impossible – Fallout" was officially announced in November 2015, with McQuarrie confirmed to write and direct, thus becoming the first director to return to the franchise. The returns of the cast were announced soon after; Jeremy Renner, who appeared in the previous two films, confirmed his absence at CinemaCon in March 2017, due to scheduling conflicts with "" (2019). Principal photography began in April 2017 and lasted until March 2018, with filming locations including Paris, New Zealand, London, Norway, and the United Arab Emirates. Production was notably put on hold for seven weeks following an injury to Cruise in August 2017.  "Mission: Impossible – Fallout" premiered in Paris on July 12, 2018, and was theatrically released in the United States in RealD 3D and IMAX (a first for the series) by Paramount Pictures on July 27. It received critical acclaim, with praise for its action sequences, McQuarrie's direction and screenplay, and the cast performances (particularly Cruise's); it is widely considered to be the best installment in the franchise.<ref name="SREarly"/><ref name="BBCEarly"/> The film grossed $791 million worldwide, making it the highest-grossing film in the franchise, the eighth-highest-grossing film of 2018, and the then-highest-grossing film of Cruise's career (until 2022's ""). The sequel, "", is scheduled for release in July 2023.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP] Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation  Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation is a 2015 American action spy film written and directed by Christopher McQuarrie from a story by McQuarrie and Drew Pearce. It is the sequel to "" (2011) and is the fifth installment in the . The film stars Tom Cruise, Jeremy Renner, Simon Pegg, Ving Rhames, Rebecca Ferguson, Sean Harris, and Alec Baldwin. In "Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation", Ethan Hunt (Cruise) and his team are on the run from the Central Intelligence Agency following the disbandment of the Impossible Missions Force (IMF) and must go to war with the Syndicate, an international black ops terrorist organization composed of rogue government agents from all over the world.  McQuarrie, who completed uncredited rewrites for "Mission: Impossible – Ghost Protocol", was announced as the director of "Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation" in August 2013. The returns of Cruise, Renner, Pegg, and Rhames were confirmed by July 2014 while the screenplay was also developed by Pearce and Will Staples; it was ultimately solely credited to McQuarrie. Ferguson, Harris, and Baldwin rounded out the cast that October. Principal photography began in August 2014 and lasted until March 2015, with filming locations including Vienna, Casablanca, London, and at Leavesden Studios in Hertfordshire. The film's official title was revealed in March 2015.  Originally scheduled for worldwide release on December 25, 2015, "Mission: Impossible – Rogue Nation" premiered at the Vienna State Opera on July 23, 2015, was theatrically released in the United States by Paramount Pictures a week later. The film received positive reviews from critics, with praise for the action sequences, cast performances (particularly Cruise's), screenplay, and McQuarrie's direction. It grossed $683 million worldwide, becoming the eighth-highest-grossing film of 2015 and the then-second-highest grossing film in the franchise. The sequel, "", was released in 2018.
Who was the screenwriter for Impossible? [SEP] Mission: Impossible (film)  Mission: Impossible is a 1996 American action spy film directed by Brian De Palma and produced by and starring Tom Cruise from a screenplay by David Koepp and Robert Towne and story by Koepp and Steven Zaillian. A continuation of and its (canonically set six years after the latter), it is the first installment in the . It also stars Jon Voight, Emmanuelle Béart, Henry Czerny, Ving Rhames, Kristin Scott Thomas, Vanessa Redgrave, and Jean Reno. In "Mission: Impossible", Ethan Hunt (Cruise) seeks to uncover who framed him for the murders of most of his Impossible Missions Force (IMF) team.  Numerous efforts by Paramount Pictures to create a film adaptation of the television series stalled until Cruise founded Cruise/Wagner Productions and decided on "Mission: Impossible" as its inaugural project. Development initially began with filmmaker Sydney Pollack but most of the final screenplay was complete after De Palma, Steven Zaillian, David Koepp, and Robert Towne were hired; De Palma also designed most of the action sequences, while Cruise did most of his own stunts. Principal photography began in March 1995 and had lasted until that August, with filming locations including London, Pinewood Studios in England, and Prague (a rarity in Hollywood at the time).  "Mission: Impossible" was theatrically released in the United States by Paramount on May 22, 1996. The film received generally mixed to positive reviews from critics, with praise for the action sequences, De Palma’s direction and Cruise's performance but criticism for the convoluted plot; cast members of the original television series negatively received the film. The film grossed $457.7 million worldwide, making it the third highest-grossing film of 1996, while the dance rendition of the by Larry Mullen Jr. and Adam Clayton became a top-ten hit internationally and was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Pop Instrumental Performance. The sequel, "", was released in 2000.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  The Accused (Los Acusados) is a 1960 Argentine crime drama directed and written by Antonio Cunill Jr.. The film was based on a screen play by Marco Denevi. The film starred Mario Soffici and Silvia Legrand.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Accused is a 1936 British mystery film directed by Thornton Freeland and starring Douglas Fairbanks, Jr., Dolores del Río and Florence Desmond. It was made at Isleworth Studios by the independent Criterion Films, which Fairbanks was a co-owner of. The film's sets were designed by Edward Carrick.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Arvidson wrote screenplays, including the one for the five-reel Who's Guilty Now? She was an associate editor of Film Fun and a film critic for Leslie's Magazine, and she wrote the book When the Movies Were Young.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  I Stand Accused is a 1938 American drama film directed by John H. Auer and written by Gordon Kahn and Alex Gottlieb. The film stars Robert Cummings, Helen Mack, Lyle Talbot, Thomas Beck, Gordon Jones and Robert Paige. The film was released by Republic Pictures.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP]  Accused (Czech: Obžalovaný) is a 1964 film directed by Ján Kadár and Elmar Klos. The film has won a Crystal Globe at 1964 Karlovy Vary International Film Festival.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] The Accused (1988 film)  The Accused is a 1988 American legal drama film directed by Jonathan Kaplan from a screenplay written by Tom Topor. The film is loosely based on the 1983 gang rape of Cheryl Araujo in New Bedford, Massachusetts. Set in Washington state, but filmed mainly in Vancouver, British Columbia, the film stars Jodie Foster as Sarah Tobias, a young waitress, who is gang raped by three men at a local bar. With the aid of attorney, Kathryn Murphy (Kelly McGillis), she sets out to prosecute the rapists as well as the men who helped induce the assault. Bernie Coulson, Leo Rossi, Ann Hearn, Carmen Argenziano, Steve Antin and Tom O'Brien are featured in supporting roles.   "The Accused" premiered at the 39th Berlin International Film Festival, where it competed for the Golden Bear. It was released in limited theatres on October 14, 1988 by Paramount Pictures and was highly controversial upon release, mostly due to its graphic representation of gang rape. The film became a critical and commercial success, grossing over $92 million worldwide against a $13 million budget, and was chosen by the National Board of Review as the . Critics praised the film's audacity, the authenticity of the portrayal of its subject matter, and credited it for being one of the first mainstream films to deal with the horrors of rape and its aftermath on a victim's life. Foster's performance marked her breakthrough into adult roles, earning numerous accolades including the Academy Award for Best Actress.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Max Landis  Max Landis (born August 3, 1985) is an American screenwriter and filmmaker, and the son of director John Landis. He wrote scripts for the films "Chronicle" (2012), "American Ultra" (2015), "Victor Frankenstein" (2015), and "Bright" (2017). He wrote and directed the film "Me Him Her" (2015), produced the first two seasons of the Syfy series "Channel Zero" (2016), and created the series "Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency" (2016) based on the novel, for BBC America. He has also written limited series published by DC and Image Comics.  In both 2011 and 2012, he was listed among "Forbes" magazine's "30 Under 30" young people to watch in the entertainment industry. His career stalled in 2017, following accusations from several women of emotional and sexual abuse.<ref name="The Daily Beast" />
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Jimmy McGovern  James Stanley McGovern (born September 1949) is an English screenwriter and producer. He is best known for creating the drama series "Cracker" (1993–1995), for which he received two Edgar Awards from the Mystery Writers of America. He also received recognition for creating drama series such as "Hillsborough", "The Lakes", "The Street", and "Accused", among others. On 8 December 2021 Jimmy was conferred the Freedom of Liverpool, in recognition of his life's work.
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Roman Polanski  Raymond Roman Thierry Polański (né Liebling; 18 August 1933) is a French-Polish<ref name="auto3"/> film director, producer, screenwriter, and actor. He is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, two British Academy Film Awards, nine César Awards, two Golden Globe Awards,  as well as the Golden Bear and a Palme d'Or.  His Polish–Jewish parents moved the family from his birthplace in Paris back to Kraków in 1937. Two years later, the invasion of Poland by Nazi Germany started World War II, and the family found themselves trapped in the Kraków Ghetto. After his mother and father were taken in raids, Polanski spent his formative years in foster homes, surviving the Holocaust by adopting a false identity and concealing his Jewish heritage. Polanski's first feature-length film, "Knife in the Water" (1962), was made in Poland and was nominated for the United States Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.<ref name="california" /> After living in France for a few years, he moved to the United Kingdom, where he directed his first three English-language feature-length films: "Repulsion" (1965), "Cul-de-sac" (1966), and "The Fearless Vampire Killers" (1967). In 1968, he moved to the United States and cemented his status in the film industry by directing the horror film "Rosemary's Baby" (1968).  Polanski's life changed in 1969 when his pregnant wife, actress Sharon Tate, and four friends were murdered by members of the Manson Family.<ref name="Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired" /><ref name="USAToday"/> He made "Macbeth" (1971) in England and "Chinatown" (1974) back in Hollywood. In 1977, Polanski was arrested and charged with drugging and raping a 13-year-old girl. As a result of a plea bargain, he pleaded guilty to the lesser offence of unlawful sex with a minor. In 1978, upon learning that the judge planned to reject his plea deal and impose a prison term instead of probation, he fled to Paris. As a result, Polanski is a fugitive from the U.S. criminal justice system. After fleeing to Europe, Polanski continued directing. His other critically acclaimed films include "Tess" (1979), "The Pianist" (2002), "The Ghost Writer" (2010), "Venus in Fur" (2013), and "An Officer and a Spy" (2019).
Who was the screenwriter for The Accused? [SEP] Bryan Singer  Bryan Jay Singer (born September 17, 1965)<ref name=filmref/> is an American filmmaker. He is the founder of Bad Hat Harry Productions and has produced almost all of the films he has directed.  After graduating from the University of Southern California, Singer directed his first short film, "Lion's Den" (1988). On the basis of that film, he received financing for his next film, "Public Access" (1993), which was a co-winner of the Grand Jury Prize at the 1993 Sundance Film Festival. In the mid-1990s, Singer received critical acclaim for directing the neo-noir crime thriller "The Usual Suspects" (1995). He followed this with another thriller, "Apt Pupil" (1998), an adaptation of a Stephen King novella about a boy's fascination with a Nazi war criminal. In the 2000s, he became known for big budget superhero films such as "X-Men" (2000), for which Singer won the 2000 Saturn Award for Best Direction, its sequel "X2" (2003), and "Superman Returns" (2006). He then directed the World War II historical thriller "Valkyrie" (2008), co-wrote/co-produced "" (2011), and directed the fantasy adventure film "Jack the Giant Slayer" (2013), as well as two more "X-Men" films, "" (2014) and "" (2016). Singer also directed the Queen biographical film "Bohemian Rhapsody" (2018), although he was fired from the film shortly before its completion in the wake of allegations of sexual misconduct.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Daybreak (also writer, 1993) ; Judgment Day: The Ellie Nesler Story (also writer, 1999) ; Carolina Moon (also writer, 2007) ; What If God Were the Sun? (2007) ; A Day Late and a Dollar Short (2014) ; Switched at Birth (2017) ; New York Prison Break: The Seduction of Joyce Mitchell (also writer, 2017)
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP]  Daybreak is a 1931 American pre-Code drama film directed by Jacques Feyder and written by Cyril Hume and Ruth Cummings. The film stars Ramon Novarro, Helen Chandler, Jean Hersholt, C. Aubrey Smith, William Bakewell and Karen Morley. The film was released on May 2, 1931, by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP]  Daybreak (Morgengrauen) is a 1954 West German drama film directed by Viktor Tourjansky and starring Hans Stüwe, Elisabeth Müller and Alexander Kerst. The film's sets were designed by the art director Arne Flekstad. Filming took place at the Bavaria Studios. It was also shot on location in Munich and Hamburg.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP]  The screen rights to the novel Seven Men at Daybreak by Alan Burgess were acquired by Warner Bros in mid-1973. Filming on the wartime-action movie based on the book, itself based on a factual story, was announced to be starting in November 1974 with screenplay by Ronald Harwood, and based on the factual events of the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich. The film was produced by Carter Dehaven and directed by Lewis Gilbert.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP]  Aron Eli Coleite (sometimes credited Aron Coleite) is an American comic book writer, television writer and producer best known for his work on the Netflix series Daybreak, the NBC series Heroes and on the comic book series Ultimate X-Men.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Aron Eli Coleite  Aron Eli Coleite (sometimes credited Aron Coleite) is an American comic book writer, television writer and producer best known for his work on the Netflix series "Daybreak", the NBC series "Heroes" and on the comic book series "Ultimate X-Men".
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Brad Peyton  Brad Peyton (born May 27, 1978) is a Canadian film director, writer, and producer, best known for directing the Dwayne Johnson star vehicles "" (2012), "San Andreas" (2015), and "Rampage" (2018) as well as the Netflix series "Daybreak" (2019).
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Morning Glory (2010 film)  Morning Glory is a 2010 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Roger Michell and written by Aline Brosh McKenna. Starring Rachel McAdams, Harrison Ford, Diane Keaton, Patrick Wilson and Jeff Goldblum, the film tells the story of an upstart television producer who accepts the challenge of reviving a morning show program with warring co-hosts.  "Morning Glory" was released in theaters on November 10, 2010, by Paramount Pictures. It received mixed reviews from critics and grossed $60 million against a $40 million budget.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Phillip J. Roth  Phillip J. Roth (born June 10, 1959) is an American film producer, director and screenwriter who is known for making low-budget films. He is the founder of the Unified Film Organization (UFO) in America and Bulgaria, which have released various action and science fiction films for television and home video markets.
Who was the screenwriter for Daybreak? [SEP] Michael Patrick Jann  Michael Patrick Jann (born May 15, 1970, Albany, New York) is an American actor, writer, and director best known as a cast member on MTV's "The State".
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]  capital. Masculin Féminin (1966), based on two Guy de Maupassant stories, La Femme de Paul and Le Signe, was a study of contemporary French youth and their involvement with cultural politics. An intertitle refers to the characters as "The children of Marx and Coca-Cola." Although Godard's cinema is sometimes thought to depict a wholly masculine point of view, Phillip John Usher has demonstrated how the film, by the way it connects images and disparate events, seems to blur gender lines. Godard followed with Made in U.S.A (1966), whose source material was Richard Stark's The Jugger; and Two or Three Things I Know About Her (1967),
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP] Masculin Féminin (1966) - L'homme qui se suicide (uncredited) ; Made in U.S.A (1966) - David Goodis ; Week End (1967) - Gros Poucet (uncredited) ; Time to Live (1969) - René ; Une veuve en or (1970) - Un membre de la bande à Raphaël (uncredited) ; Dossier prostitution (1970) - Le placeur (uncredited) ; Cannabis (1970) - (uncredited) ; Vladimir et Rosa (1971) - Yves - un étudiant révolutionnnaire (uncredited) ; La maffia du plaisir (1971) - Un naturiste ; La cavale (1971) - Un gendarme (uncredited) ; Valparaiso, Valparaiso (1971) - Anatole ; L'insolent (1973) - Petit René ; Les volets clos (1973) ; Les gants blancs du diable (1973) - Cartoni, le tueur à gages ; Défense de
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]  the first "Women's Center", and 1977 of the "Rape Crisis Center”, all in (West-)Berlin. In 1975 she wrote with her partner Cäcilia Rentmeister the screenplay for the first feature film about a lesbian relationship produced for German television ("Anna and Edith", ZDF/Second German TV Channel). In 1977 Perincioli founded the Sphinx Filmproduktion GmbH, with Marianne Gassner as a production manager. The documentary fiction The Power of Men is the Patience of Women (ZDF/ Second German TV Channel, 1978) is also shown internationally. From an interview with Perincioli: Michael Althen described 2008 in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung functions and effects of the film as a "... documentary fiction in which
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]  1973 and wrote the script. It was the first screenplay he wrote entirely by himself and he did the first draft in eight days. Meyer says he rewrote it nine times, with input of the actors. "I think actors contribute to the comfort of words because it's one thing to sit in a little green room somewhere and write dialogue, but when you hear actors speaking it, it doesn't necessarily flow as well as it might," said Meyer. The two main female characters in the film were Superangel and Supervixen. "Superangel, she's totally bad but beautiful," said Meyer. "Supervixen, she's totally good. They're bookends. I like bookend
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]  Jacquette Guillaume (fl. 1665) was a French writer. Her best-known work was Les dames illustres, où par bonnes et fortes raisons il se prouve que le sexe féminin surpasse en toutes sortes de genres le sexe masculin, a work of 443 pages published by Thomas Jolly in Paris in 1665. Two copies of this book are believed to exist, in the Library of Congress and at Duke University. In this book she argues for the moral superiority of women over men. The book has been described as "a long-neglected, obscured contribution to the history of early French feminism", and was a source for Elizabeth Elstob's work which itself was a source for George Ballard's Memoirs of several ladies of Great Britain, who have been celebrated for their writings, or skill in the learned languages, arts and sciences (1752). She also wrote a fictional work, La femme genereuse, of which no copies are known to survive.
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP] Sadaf Foroughi  Sadaf Foroughi (; born July 27, 1976) is an Iranian director, screenwriter, producer and editor. She has a bachelor's degree in French literature. After receiving her master's degree in film studies from University of Provence in Aix-en-Provence, France, she continued her studies toward a PhD in film philosophy. She also completed the New York Film Academy's film-making courses. Her films and video art pieces have been screened in venues and festivals around the world.
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP] Jean-Luc Godard  Jean-Luc Godard ( , ; ; 3 December 193013 September 2022) was a French-Swiss film director, screenwriter, and film critic. He rose to prominence as a pioneer of the French New Wave film movement of the 1960s, alongside such filmmakers as François Truffaut, Agnès Varda, Éric Rohmer, and Jacques Demy. He was arguably the most influential French filmmaker of the post-war era. According to AllMovie, his work "revolutionized the motion picture form" through its experimentation with narrative, continuity, sound, and camerawork.  During his early career as a film critic for the influential magazine "Cahiers du Cinéma", Godard criticised mainstream French cinema's "Tradition of Quality", which de-emphasised innovation and experimentation. In response, he and like-minded critics began to make their own films, challenging the conventions of traditional Hollywood in addition to French cinema. Godard first received global acclaim for his 1960 feature "Breathless", helping to establish the New Wave movement. and Marxist philosophy, and in 1969 formed the Dziga Vertov Group with other radical filmmakers to promote political works. After the New Wave, his politics were less radical and his later films are about human conflict and artistic representation "from a humanist rather than Marxist perspective."  Godard was married three times, to actresses Anna Karina and Anne Wiazemsky, both of whom starred in several of his films, and later to his longtime partner Anne-Marie Miéville. In a 2002 "Sight & Sound" poll, Godard ranked third in the critics' top ten directors of all time. He is said to have "generated one of the largest bodies of critical analysis of any filmmaker since the mid-twentieth century." His work has been central to narrative theory and has "challenged both commercial narrative cinema norms and film criticism's vocabulary." In 2010, Godard was awarded an Academy Honorary Award.
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Féminin, masculin? [SEP] Pierrot le Fou  Pierrot le Fou (, French for "Pierrot the Fool") is a 1965 French New Wave romantic drama road film written and directed by Jean-Luc Godard, starring Jean-Paul Belmondo and Anna Karina. The film is based on the 1962 novel "Obsession" by Lionel White. It was Godard's tenth feature film, released between "Alphaville" and "Masculin, féminin". The plot follows Ferdinand, an unhappily married man, as he escapes his boring society and travels from Paris to the Mediterranean Sea with Marianne, a girl chased by OAS hitmen from Algeria.  It was the 15th-highest grossing film of the year, with a total of 1,310,580 admissions in France. The film was selected as the French entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 38th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]  Tom Jones (born February 17, 1928) is an American lyricist and librettist, best known for The Fantasticks. He was born in Littlefield, Texas.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]  Reports have appeared stating Jones wrote screenplays for feature films, including a Vietnam screenplay for Cheyenne Enterprises. He was reported to have adapted Larry Brown's novel, The Rabbit Factory (2003), as a screenplay for Ithaka Films. {can't find source}
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]  as a writer of documentary drama, television plays and feature films. His works include the television documentary series The Fight Against Slavery and several films directed by Joseph Losey, including Eva (a collaboration with Hugo Butler, 1962), King and Country (1964) and Modesty Blaise (1966). Other screenplays by Jones include Funeral in Berlin (1966), Escape to Victory (1981) and A Show of Force (1990). He is also notable as the author of Madhouse on Castle Street (1963), a now lost BBC television play, which featured the acting début of Bob Dylan. Jones's poem The Song of the Banana Man (1956) is taught in schools throughout the Caribbean and published in anthologies worldwide. He also wrote biographies, and textbooks and novels for children. His wife, Joanna Vogel, was an actress and his daughters Melissa and Sadie are both novelists.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]  More", and "I Can See It". He also wrote the screenplay for the 1995 feature-film adaptation. Jones acted in a New York City revival of The Fantasticks, which he also directed. He played the part of the Old Actor, from when the musical opened in 1960, and from April 26, 2010, to June 6, 2010. He was credited as an actor in the show as Thomas Bruce. Jones is also the author of Making Musicals: An Informal Introduction to the World of Musical Theater, about which Elyse Sommer wrote on January 15, 1998 in CurtainUp:  All of Jones's major musicals were written with Harvey Schmidt, whom he met at the University of Texas at Austin.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]  Grover Jones (November 15, 1893 &ndash; September 24, 1940) was an American screenwriter - often teamed with William Slavens McNutt - and film director. He wrote more than 100 films between 1920 and his death. He also was a film journal publisher and prolific short story writer. Jones was born in Rosedale, Indiana, grew up in West Terre Haute, Indiana, and died in Hollywood, California. He was the father of American polo pioneer Sue Sally Hale.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP]
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP] Tom Jones (1963 film)  Tom Jones is a 1963 British comedy film, an adaptation of Henry Fielding's classic 1749 novel "The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling", starring Albert Finney as the titular hero. It was one of the most critically acclaimed and popular comedies of its time, and won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture. The film was produced and directed by Tony Richardson and the screenplay was adapted by playwright John Osborne.  A period piece set in 18th-century Somerset and London, "Tom Jones" was a success both critically and at the box office. At the 36th Academy Awards, it was nominated for ten Oscars, winning four: Best Picture, Best Director for Richardson, Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Original Score. It also won two Golden Globe Awards, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy, and three BAFTA Awards, including Best Film and Best British Film.  In 1999, the British Film Institute ranked it as the 51st greatest British film of the 20th century.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP] Delilah (Tom Jones song)  "Delilah" is a song recorded by Welsh singer Tom Jones in December 1967. The lyrics were written by Barry Mason, and the music by Les Reed, who also contributed the title and theme of the song. It earned Reed and Mason the 1968 Ivor Novello award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP] Mars Attacks!  Mars Attacks! is a 1996 American science fiction comedy film directed by Tim Burton, who also co-produced it with Larry J. Franco. The screenplay by Jonathan Gems was based on the Topps trading card series of the same name. The film features an ensemble cast consisting of Jack Nicholson (in a dual role), Glenn Close, Annette Bening, Pierce Brosnan, Danny DeVito, Martin Short, Sarah Jessica Parker, Michael J. Fox, Rod Steiger, Tom Jones, Lukas Haas, Pam Grier, Natalie Portman, Jim Brown, Jack Black, Lisa Marie, and Sylvia Sidney in her final film role.  Alex Cox had tried to make a "Mars Attacks" film in the 1980s before Burton and Gems began development in 1993. When Gems turned in his first draft in 1994, Warner Bros. commissioned rewrites from Gems, Burton, Scott Alexander and Larry Karaszewski in an attempt to lower the budget to $60 million. The final production budget came to $80 million, while Warner Bros. spent another $20 million on the "Mars Attacks!" marketing campaign. Filming took place from February to June 1996. The film was shot in California, Nevada, Kansas, Arizona and Argentina.  The filmmakers hired Industrial Light & Magic to create the Martians using computer animation after their previous plan to use stop motion animation, supervised by Barry Purves, fell through because of budget limitations. "Mars Attacks!" was released theatrically by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States on December 13, 1996 and received mixed reviews from critics. The film grossed approximately $101 million in box office totals, which was seen as a disappointment. "Mars Attacks!" was nominated for the Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation and earned multiple nominations at the Saturn Awards.
Who was the screenwriter for Tom Jones? [SEP] Gary Wallis  Gary Wallis is a British drummer, percussionist, drum programmer, producer and musical director. He has worked with a wide range of artists and bands, including Nik Kershaw, Pink Floyd, 10cc, Il Divo, Westlife, Girls Aloud, Atomic Kitten, Paul Carrack, Dusty Springfield, Bonnie Tyler, Mike Rutherford, Mike + The Mechanics, Spice Girls, All Saints, Tom Jones, Jean Michel Jarre, Helene Fischer and Schiller.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]  .
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]  Notes
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]  One is a chamber opera for soprano, video and soundtrack composed in 2002 by Michel van der Aa who also wrote the English-language libretto. It premiered on 12 January 2003 with Barbara Hannigan in the Frascati Theatre, Amsterdam. In 2004 Michel van der Aa received the Matthijs Vermeulen Award for this work.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]  Source:
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]  One is an album by American jazz pianist Ahmad Jamal featuring 1978 performances and released on 20th Century Fox in 1979.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP] Composer  A composer is a person who writes music. The term is especially used to indicate composers of Western classical music,<ref name="Collins"/> or those who are composers by occupation.<ref name="NOAD"/> Many composers are, or were, also skilled performers of music.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP] Music of One Piece  More than 100 musical CDs have been created for the media franchise built around Eiichirō Oda's manga "One Piece". Various theme songs and character songs were released on a total of 51 singles, many of them were also released in collected form on the 8 compilation albums or the 17 soundtrack CDs, along with background music from the anime television series, the feature films, and video games.  Kohei Tanaka and Shirō Hamaguchi are the main composers for "One Piece" anime soundtracks including OVAs, TV specials, films except "" which was composed by Yuki Hayashi and there are numerous other artists who have worked with Kohei Tanaka and Shirō Hamaguchi to produce the soundtracks.  On August 11, 2019, it was announced that Sakuramen, a musical group will be collaborating with Kohei Tanaka to compose music for the anime's Wano arc.  The anime television series currently consists of 41 pieces of theme music, 23 opening themes and 18 ending themes. As of episode 279, ending themes were omitted and, starting from episode 326 onwards, opening themes were extended from 110 seconds long to 150 seconds long. In episodes 1-206 of Funimation's English-language release of the series, the opening and ending themes were dubbed into English by various voice actors, before reverting to the Japanese versions from episodes 207 onward and later some openings were not licensed by Funimation's release, leaving only the narration dubbed on select opening themes.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP] Gustav Mahler  Gustav Mahler (; 7 July 1860 – 18 May 1911) was an Austro-Bohemian Romantic composer, and one of the leading conductors of his generation. As a composer he acted as a bridge between the 19th-century Austro-German tradition and the modernism of the early 20th century. While in his lifetime his status as a conductor was established beyond question, his own music gained wide popularity only after periods of relative neglect, which included a ban on its performance in much of Europe during the Nazi era. After 1945 his compositions were rediscovered by a new generation of listeners; Mahler then became one of the most frequently performed and recorded of all composers, a position he has sustained into the 21st century.  Born in Bohemia (then part of the Austrian Empire) to Jewish parents of humble origins, the German-speaking Mahler displayed his musical gifts at an early age. After graduating from the Vienna Conservatory in 1878, he held a succession of conducting posts of rising importance in the opera houses of Europe, culminating in his appointment in 1897 as director of the Vienna Court Opera (Hofoper). During his ten years in Vienna, Mahler—who had converted to Catholicism to secure the post—experienced regular opposition and hostility from the anti-Semitic press. Nevertheless, his innovative productions and insistence on the highest performance standards ensured his reputation as one of the greatest of opera conductors, particularly as an interpreter of the stage works of Wagner, Mozart, and Tchaikovsky. Late in his life he was briefly director of New York's Metropolitan Opera and the New York Philharmonic.  Mahler's "œuvre" is relatively limited; for much of his life composing was necessarily a part-time activity while he earned his living as a conductor. Aside from early works such as a movement from a piano quartet composed when he was a student in Vienna, Mahler's works are generally designed for large orchestral forces, symphonic choruses and operatic soloists. These works were frequently controversial when first performed, and several were slow to receive critical and popular approval; exceptions included his Second Symphony, and the triumphant premiere of his Eighth Symphony in 1910. Some of Mahler's immediate musical successors included the composers of the Second Viennese School, notably Arnold Schoenberg, Alban Berg and Anton Webern. Dmitri Shostakovich and Benjamin Britten are among later 20th-century composers who admired and were influenced by Mahler. The International Gustav Mahler Institute was established in 1955 to honour the composer's life and achievements.
Who was the composer of One? [SEP]
Who was the composer of One? [SEP] Robert Schumann  Robert Schumann (; 8 June 181029 July 1856) was a German composer, pianist, and influential music critic. He is widely regarded as one of the greatest composers of the Romantic era. Schumann left the study of law, intending to pursue a career as a virtuoso pianist. His teacher, Friedrich Wieck, a German pianist, had assured him that he could become the finest pianist in Europe, but a hand injury ended this dream. Schumann then focused his musical energies on composing.  In 1840, Schumann married Friedrich Wieck's daughter Clara Wieck, after a long and acrimonious legal battle with Friedrich, who opposed the marriage. A lifelong partnership in music began, as Clara herself was an established pianist and music prodigy. Clara and Robert also maintained a close relationship with German composer Johannes Brahms.  Until 1840, Schumann wrote exclusively for the piano. Later, he composed piano and orchestral works, and many Lieder (songs for voice and piano). He composed four symphonies, one opera, and other orchestral, choral, and chamber works. His best-known works include "Carnaval", "Symphonic Studies", "Kinderszenen", "Kreisleriana", and the "Fantasie in C". Schumann was known for infusing his music with characters through motifs, as well as references to works of literature. These characters bled into his editorial writing in the "Neue Zeitschrift für Musik" (New Journal for Music), a Leipzig-based publication that he co-founded.  Schumann suffered from a mental disorder that first manifested in 1833 as a severe melancholic depressive episode—which recurred several times alternating with phases of "exaltation" and increasingly also delusional ideas of being poisoned or threatened with metallic items. What is now thought to have been a combination of bipolar disorder and perhaps mercury poisoning led to "manic" and "depressive" periods in Schumann's compositional productivity. After a suicide attempt in 1854, Schumann was admitted at his own request to a mental asylum in Endenich (now in Bonn). Diagnosed with "psychotic melancholia", he died of pneumonia two years later at the age of 46, without recovering from his mental illness.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP]  that a human, and not a very good human at that – well, not a compositional genius anyway – could write? Why not use it to find new realms of sound, new kinds of musical ideas?" Conversely, the musicologist Peter Russell was asked to review "Hello World!" for the BBC, based on a video of the live premiere, but he was not given any information about the composer. In his critique, Russell writes "on listening to this delightful piece of chamber music I could not bring myself to say that it would probably be more satisfying to read the score than listen to it. In fact after repeated hearings, I came to like it".
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP]  "Hello and Welcome" (titled "Hello + Welcome") is a song created by the musical project Enigma, released on 10 March 2006 (see 2006 in music).
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP]  The composition is dedicated to the memory of Raymond Scott, an electronic music pioneer and inventor of the Electronium.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP]   "Hello World!" is a piece of contemporary classical music for clarinet-violin-piano trio composed by Iamus Computer in September 2011. It is arguably the first full-scale work entirely composed by a computer without any human intervention and automatically written in a fully-fledged score using conventional musical notation. Iamus generates music scores in PDF and the MusicXML format that can be imported in professional editors such as Sibelius and Finale.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP]  In 1953, composer Jack Beeson composed a one-act chamber opera based on the play.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP] Hello (Lionel Richie song)  "Hello" is a song by American singer and songwriter Lionel Richie. Taken as the third single from his second solo album, "Can't Slow Down" (1983), the song was released in 1984 and reached number one on three "Billboard" music charts: the pop chart (for two weeks), the R&B chart (for three weeks), and the Adult Contemporary chart (for six weeks). The song also went to number one on the UK Singles Chart for six weeks.  The song was subject to a lawsuit by songwriter Marjorie Hoffman White, who accused Richie of plagiarizing her 1978 composition "I'm Not Ready to Go".
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP] Hello (Adele song)  "Hello" is a song recorded by English singer-songwriter Adele, released on 23 October 2015 by XL Recordings as the lead single from her third studio album, "25" (2015). Written by Adele and with its producer, Greg Kurstin, "Hello" is a piano ballad with soul influences (including guitar and drums), and lyrics that discuss themes of nostalgia and regret. Upon release, the song garnered critical acclaim, with reviewers comparing it favourably to Adele's previous works and praised its lyrics, production and Adele's vocal performance. It was recorded in Metropolis Studios, London.  "Hello" was a massive global success, topping the records charts in a record-setting 36 countries, including in the United Kingdom where it became Adele's second chart topper, following "Someone Like You", and had the largest opening week sales in three years. In the United States, "Hello" debuted atop the "Billboard" Hot 100, reigning for ten consecutive weeks whilst becoming Adele's fourth number-one single on the chart and breaking several records, including becoming the first song to sell over a million digital copies in a week. By the end of 2015, it had sold 12.3 million units globally (combined sales and track-equivalent streams) and was the year's 7th best-selling single while it stands as one of the best-selling digital singles of all-time.  The accompanying music video was directed by Xavier Dolan and co-stars Adele and Tristan Wilds. The music video for the song broke the Vevo record by achieving over 27.7 million views within a 24-hour span, held previously by Taylor Swift's "Bad Blood" which accumulated 20.1 million views in that timeframe. "Hello" also broke the record for shortest time to reach one billion YouTube views (87 days). The music video for the song received seven nominations at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards, including Video of the Year and Best Female Video. At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards, "Hello" won three awards: Record of the Year, Song of the Year, and Best Pop Solo Performance. The song also won the Brit Award for British Single, and APRA Award for International Work of the Year.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP] Hello, Dolly! (musical)  Hello, Dolly! is a 1964 musical with lyrics and music by Jerry Herman and a book by Michael Stewart, based on Thornton Wilder's 1938 farce "The Merchant of Yonkers", which Wilder revised and retitled "The Matchmaker" in 1955. The musical follows the story of Dolly Gallagher Levi, a strong-willed matchmaker, as she travels to Yonkers, New York, to find a match for the miserly "well-known unmarried half-a-millionaire" Horace Vandergelder.  "Hello, Dolly!" debuted at the Fisher Theater in Detroit on November 18, 1963, directed and choreographed by Gower Champion and produced by David Merrick, and moved to Broadway in 1964, winning 10 Tony Awards, including Best Musical. These awards set a record which the play held for 37 years. The show album "Hello, Dolly! An Original Cast Recording" was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2002. The album reached number one on the Billboard album chart on June 6, 1964, and was replaced the next week by Louis Armstrong's album "Hello, Dolly!" Louis Armstrong also was featured in the film version of the show, performing a small part of the song "Hello, Dolly!".  The show has become one of the most enduring musical theater hits, with four Broadway revivals and international success. It was also made into the 1969 film "Hello Dolly!" by 20th Century Fox, which won three Academy Awards, including Best Score of a Musical Picture and was nominated in four other categories, including Best Picture at the 42nd Academy Awards.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP] Hello Darlin' (song)  "Hello Darlin'" is a song written and recorded by American country music artist Conway Twitty. It was released in March 1970 as the first single and title track from the album "Hello Darlin". The song was Twitty's fourth No. 1 song on the "Billboard magazine" Hot Country Singles chart. The song spent four weeks atop the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles chart that summer, and was named the No. 1 song of 1970. Aside from being Twitty's standard concert opener, the song became a country standard as well as his signature song. When performing with Loretta Lynn, Twitty would frequently sing the song directly to Loretta. Twitty's recording was added to the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999.
Who was the composer of Hello? [SEP] Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh (A Letter from Camp)  "Hello Muddah, Hello Fadduh (A Letter from Camp)" is a novelty song recorded by Allan Sherman. The melody is taken from the ballet "Dance of the Hours" from the Opera "La Gioconda" by Amilcare Ponchielli, while the lyrics were written by Allan Sherman and Lou Busch.  Allan based the lyrics on letters of complaint which he received from his son Robert who was attending Camp Champlain, a summer camp in Westport, New York.  In 2020, the song was selected by the Library of Congress for preservation in the United States National Recording Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". The song's mention of "Leonard Skinner", a boy at the camp who "got ptomaine poisoning last night after dinner", was an inspiration for the name of the band Lynyrd Skynyrd, although the band's name was also inspired by a physical education instructor of the same name.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP]  The music for Ghost was written by veteran French composer Maurice Jarre, whose work was nominated for the 1990 Academy Award for Best Original Score (won by John Barry for Dances with Wolves). The soundtrack also featured the 1955 song "Unchained Melody", composed by Alex North with lyrics by Hy Zaret. This was originally written for the film Unchained – a very different, low-budget movie about prison life. In Ghost, the song appears both in instrumental and vocal form, the latter being the version recorded by Bobby Hatfield of The Righteous Brothers in 1965. The soundtrack album was issued worldwide on Milan Records, but licensed to Varèse Sarabande in North America. It was reissued with two extra tracks in 1995, and later as part of Milan's Silver Screen Edition series with the extra tracks and an interview with Maurice Jarre.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP]  Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is an example of a well-known composer who was paid to ghostwrite music for wealthy patrons. More recently, composers such as the UK-based Patric Standford (born in 1939) have ghostwritten for symphonic recordings and films such as the Rod McKuen Cello Concerto. In the film industry, a music ghostwriter is a "person who composes music for another composer but is not credited on the cue sheet or in the final product in any way." The practice is considered one of the "dirty little secrets of the film and television music business" that is considered unethical, but has been common since the early stages of the film industry. In the early years of film, David Raksin worked as music ghostwriter and orchestrator for Charlie Chaplin; even though Chaplin
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP]  credited as the score writer, he was considered to be a "hummer" (pejorative film industry slang for a person who purports to be a film score composer but who in fact only gives a general idea of the melodies to a ghostwriter). The practice is also common in television, as composers listed on cue sheets are entitled to music royalties every time an episode or theme score appears on television. A 1998 investigation by The Hollywood Reporter revealed that it was especially prevalent among animation companies such as Saban Entertainment, DiC, Ruby-Spears Productions and Hanna-Barbera, which often listed company executives as musicians for the purpose of royalties. Several composers later filed a multimillion-dollar lawsuit against Saban Entertainment president Haim Saban, for allegedly taking ownership and credit for their musical compositions.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP]  Daniel Hart composed the score for the film as another collaboration with David Lowery. It was released by Milan Records on July 7, 2017.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP]  Ghost is the official soundtrack, on the Milan Records label, of the 1990 Academy Award- and Golden Globe-winning film Ghost starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg (who won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as "Oda Mae Brown" in this film) and Tony Goldwyn. The score was composed by Maurice Jarre. The album was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Score.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (Justin Bieber song)  "Ghost" is a song by Canadian singer Justin Bieber. It was sent to French radio stations through Universal Music Group on September 10, 2021, as the sixth and final single from his sixth studio album, "Justice". Bieber wrote the song with producers Jon Bellion and the Monsters & Strangerz (Jordan K. Johnson and Stefan Johnson), alongside Michael Pollack.<ref name="AS"/> Commercially, "Ghost" reached number one in Malaysia and Singapore and charted within the top ten in Canada, Indonesia, Ireland, Lebanon, the Philippines, and the United States.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghost (soundtrack)  Ghost is the official soundtrack, on the Milan Records label, of the 1990 Academy Award- and Golden Globe-winning film "Ghost" starring Patrick Swayze, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg (who won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as "Oda Mae Brown" in this film) and Tony Goldwyn. The score was composed by Maurice Jarre.  The album was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Score.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP] Ghostwriter  A ghostwriter is hired to write literary or journalistic works, speeches, or other texts that are officially credited to another person as the author. Celebrities, executives, participants in timely news stories, and political leaders often hire ghostwriters to draft or edit autobiographies, memoirs, magazine articles, or other written material. Memoir ghostwriters often pride themselves in "disappearing" when impersonating others since such disappearance signals the quality of their craftsmanship. In music, ghostwriters are often used to write songs, lyrics, and instrumental pieces. Screenplay authors can also use ghostwriters to either edit or rewrite their scripts to improve them. Usually, there is a confidentiality clause in the contract between the ghostwriter and the credited author that obligates the former to remain anonymous. Sometimes the ghostwriter is acknowledged by the author or publisher for their writing services, euphemistically called a "researcher" or "research assistant", but often the ghostwriter is not credited.  Ghostwriting (or simply "ghosting") also occurs in other creative fields. Composers have long hired ghostwriters to help them to write musical pieces and songs; Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is an example of a well-known composer who was paid to ghostwrite music for wealthy patrons. Ghosting also occurs in popular music. A pop music ghostwriter writes lyrics and a melody in the style of the credited musician. In hip hop music, the increasing use of ghostwriters by high-profile hip-hop stars has led to controversy. In the visual arts, it is not uncommon in either fine art or commercial art such as comics for a number of assistants to do work on a piece that is credited to a single artist; Andy Warhol engaged in this practice, supervising an assembly line silk screen process for his artwork. However, when credit is established for the writer, the acknowledgment of their contribution is public domain and the writer in question would not be considered a ghostwriter.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP] The Ghost Writer (film)  The Ghost Writer (released as The Ghost in the United Kingdom and Ireland) is a 2010 neo-noir political thriller film directed by Roman Polanski. The film is an adaptation of a 2007 Robert Harris novel, "The Ghost", with the screenplay written by Polanski and Harris. It stars Ewan McGregor, Pierce Brosnan, Kim Cattrall, and Olivia Williams.  The film was a critical and commercial success and won numerous cinematic awards including Best Director for Polanski at the 60th Berlin International Film Festival and also at the 23rd European Film Awards in 2010.
Who was the composer of Ghost? [SEP] The Ghost (novel)  The Ghost is a 2007 political thriller by the best-selling English novelist and journalist Robert Harris. In 2010, the novel was adapted into a film, "The Ghost Writer", directed by Roman Polanski and starring Pierce Brosnan, for which Polanski and Harris co-wrote the screenplay.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]  Solo
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]  Solo II is the twelfth album by the Portuguese music composer António Pinho Vargas. It was released in 2009. It was later presented with the José Afonso 2010 award.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]  Solo is the eleventh album by the Portuguese music composer António Pinho Vargas. It was released in 2008.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]  In 2011 Solo was responsible for all the visual design and also composed the complete 240 minutes soundtrack for the German mini series CRIME. Stories taken from Ferdinand von Schirach bestseller VERBRECHEN. The soundtrack was released on iTunes Germany under the titles VERBRECHEN SOUNDTRACK by Solo Avital.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]  Solo is a solo piano album by Mulgrew Miller. It was recorded in 2000 and released by Space Time Records a decade later.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP] Solo: A Star Wars Story  Solo: A Star Wars Story (also known simply as Solo) is a 2018 American space Western film centering on the "Star Wars" character Han Solo. Directed by Ron Howard, produced by Lucasfilm, and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures, it is the second "Star Wars" anthology film, following "Rogue One" (2016). Alden Ehrenreich stars as Solo, with Woody Harrelson, Emilia Clarke, Donald Glover, Thandiwe Newton, Phoebe Waller-Bridge, Joonas Suotamo and Paul Bettany. The film explores the early adventures of Han Solo and Chewbacca, who join a heist within the criminal underworld 10 years prior to the events of the original "Star Wars".  George Lucas began developing a Han Solo prequel in 2012, and commissioned Lawrence Kasdan to write the screenplay. After Lucas sold Lucasfilm to Disney in 2012, Kasdan was hired to write "" (2015), leaving his son Jonathan to complete the "Solo" script"." Principal photography began in January 2017 at Pinewood Studios, with directors Phil Lord and Christopher Miller. Both were fired in June 2017 following "creative differences" with Lucasfilm, and Howard was hired as their replacement. "Solo" is one of the most expensive films ever made, with a budget of at least $275 million.  "Solo" was released in the United States on May 25, 2018, and received generally favorable reviews; critics praised the cast (particularly Ehrenreich and Glover), visuals, score, and action sequences, although its cinematography and tone were criticized. It became the first "Star Wars" film to be a box office bomb, only grossing $393.2 million worldwide.<ref name="THRlosses" /> It received a nomination for Best Visual Effects at the 91st Academy Awards.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP] Solo: A Star Wars Story (soundtrack)  Solo: A Star Wars Story (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) is the soundtrack album to the directed by Ron Howard, which is the second instalment in the "Star Wars" anthology series. The score is composed by John Powell, with the Han Solo's theme conducted and composed by John Williams, whom he had collaborated for several "Star Wars" films, was included in the album. Williams further composed several demos, that were not included in the soundtrack but was released in the deluxe edition. Besides, composing the original themes, Powell also incorporated Williams' music from "Star Wars" films.  Walt Disney Records released the soundtrack album on May 25, 2018,
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP] Solo concerto  A solo concerto is a musical form which features a single solo instrument with the melody line, accompanied by an orchestra. Traditionally, there are three movements in a solo concerto, consisting of a fast section, a slow and lyrical section, and then another fast section. However, there are many examples of concertos that do not conform to this plan.
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Solo? [SEP] List of solo violin pieces  This is a non exhaustive compilation of pieces for solo violin. See also the entries on violin and the List of compositions for violin and orchestra and list of compositions for violin and piano.  Ordering is by surname of composer.
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]  In the 1970s Russell was commissioned to write and record 3 major works: Listen to the Silence, a mass for orchestra and chorus for the Norwegian Cultural Fund; Living Time, commissioned by Bill Evans for Columbia Records; and Vertical Form VI for the Swedish Radio. With Living Time (1972), Russell reunited with Bill Evans to offer a suite of compositions which represent the stages of human life. His Live in an American Time Spiral featured many young New York players who would go on to greatness, including Tom Harrell and Ray Anderson. When he was able to form an orchestra for his 1985 work The African Game, he dubbed it the Living Time Orchestra. This 14-member ensemble toured Europe and the U.S., doing frequent weeks at the Village Vanguard, and was praised by New York magazine as "the most exciting orchestra to hit the city in
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]  To Live (Italian: Vivere!) is a 1937 Italian musical drama film directed by Guido Brignone and starring Tito Schipa, Caterina Boratto and Nino Besozzi. The film is noted for its title song, composed by Cesare A. Bixio. It was distributed by the Italian subsidiary of MGM.
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]  I Want to Live!' is the debut film score composed, arranged and conducted by Johnny Mandel, for the 1958 film of the same name directed by Robert Wise. In addition to Mandel's score, the film features jazz themes performed by Gerry Mulligan's Jazz Combo. Two soundtrack albums were released on the United Artists label in 1958. Mandel was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Sound Track Album or Recording of Original Cast From a Motion Picture or Television at the inaugural 1st Annual Grammy Awards in 1959; he lost to André Previn's score for Gigi.
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]  Springer composed and conducted six motion picture scores in Hollywood, including Kill a Dragon (1967); I Sailed to Tahiti with an All Girl Crew (1968); More Dead Than Alive (1969); Impasse (1969); Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon (1970); and Wicked, Wicked (1973). He also scored episodes of the television series Gunsmoke, Mannix, Then Came Bronson, and Medical Center, and composed the theme for Crosswits, a 1970s game show. Springer has composed music for more than 20 musical shows, 3 of which were produced in New York City. He composed the score for the off-Broadway musical The Chosen, based on the best-selling novel by Chaim Potok, in 1988. Songs interpolated in Broadway shows include "Salesmanship" (Ziegfeld Follies of '57; lyrics by Carolyn Leigh); and "You'll Make
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]  Niro, Morgan Freeman, and Ed Harris as the narrators for Boyer's work. The Dream Lives On was premiered at Boston's Symphony Hall on May 18, 2010. The event received extensive media attention, was attended by many members of the Kennedy family, and was recorded and telecast on Boston's WCVB-TV. , The Boston Globe wrote: "Boyer's work accomplishes the goals… of amplifying the texts by these three American icons. His writing draws from the traditions of Williams-esque Hollywood film scores, Broadway musicals, and American neo-Romanticism." Conductor Miguel Harth-Bedoya appointed Boyer as the Composer-in-Residence for the Fort Worth Symphony Orchestra for the
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP] Alan Menken  Alan Irwin Menken He is the only person to have won a Razzie, an Emmy, a Grammy, an Oscar, and a Tony ("REGOT").  He is also known for his work in musical theater for Broadway and elsewhere. Some of these are based on his Disney films, but other stage hits include "Little Shop of Horrors" (1982), "A Christmas Carol" (1994), and "Sister Act" (2009).  Menken has collaborated with such lyricists as Lynn Ahrens, Howard Ashman, Jack Feldman, Tim Rice, Glenn Slater, Stephen Schwartz, and David Zippel.
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP] John Williams  John Towner Williams (born February 8, 1932) is an American composer, conductor and pianist. In a career that has spanned seven decades, he has composed some of the most popular, recognizable and critically acclaimed film scores in cinematic history. Williams has won 25 Grammy Awards, seven British Academy Film Awards, five Academy Awards and four Golden Globe Awards. With 52 Academy Award nominations, he is the second most-nominated individual, after Walt Disney. His compositions are considered the epitome of film music and he is considered among the greatest composers in the history of cinema.  Williams has composed for many critically acclaimed and popular movies, including the "Star Wars" saga, "Jaws", "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", "Superman", "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial", the first two "Home Alone" films, the "Indiana Jones" films, the first two "Jurassic Park" films, "Schindler's List", "Saving Private Ryan", "Catch Me If You Can", "Seven Years In Tibet", and the first three "Harry Potter" films. Williams has also composed numerous classical concertos and other works for orchestral ensembles and solo instruments. He served as the Boston Pops' principal conductor from 1980 to 1993 and is its laureate conductor. He has been associated with director Steven Spielberg since 1974, composing music for all but five of his feature films, and George Lucas, with whom he has worked on both of his main franchises. Other works by Williams include theme music for the 1984 Summer Olympic Games, "NBC Sunday Night Football", "The Mission" theme used by NBC News and Seven News in Australia, the television series "Lost in Space" and "Land of the Giants", and the incidental music for the first season of "Gilligan's Island". Williams announced his intention to retire from film score composing after the release of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny" in 2023 to focus more on composing independent orchestral and symphonic pieces.  In 2005, the American Film Institute selected Williams's score to 1977's "Star Wars" as the greatest film score of all time. The Library of Congress also entered the "Star Wars" soundtrack into the National Recording Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". Williams was inducted into the Hollywood Bowl's Hall of Fame in 2000, and received a Kennedy Center Honor in 2004. His AFI Life Achievement Award in 2016 was the first to be awarded outside of the acting and directing fields. He has composed the score for nine of the top 25 highest-grossing films at the U.S. box office (adjusted for inflation). His work has influenced other composers of film, popular, and contemporary classical music;<ref name="thelegacyofjohnwilliams" /> Norwegian composer Marcus Paus argues that Williams's "satisfying way of embodying dissonance and avant-garde techniques within a larger tonal framework" makes him "one of the great composers of any century".<ref name="Green" />
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP] John Cage  John Milton Cage Jr. (September 5, 1912 – August 12, 1992) was an American composer and music theorist. A pioneer of indeterminacy in music, electroacoustic music, and non-standard use of musical instruments, Cage was one of the leading figures of the post-war avant-garde. Critics have lauded him as one of the most influential composers of the 20th century. He was also instrumental in the development of modern dance, mostly through his association with choreographer Merce Cunningham, who was also Cage's romantic partner for most of their lives.  Cage's 1952 composition "4′33″" is performed in the absence of deliberate sound; musicians who present the work do nothing aside from being present for the duration specified by the title. The content of the composition is intended to be the sounds of the environment heard by the audience during performance. The work's challenge to assumed definitions about musicianship and musical experience made it a popular and controversial topic both in musicology and the broader aesthetics of art and performance. Cage was also a pioneer of the prepared piano (a piano with its sound altered by objects placed between or on its strings or hammers), for which he wrote numerous dance-related works and a few concert pieces. These include "Sonatas and Interludes" (1946–48).  His teachers included Henry Cowell (1933) and Arnold Schoenberg (1933–35), both known for their radical innovations in music, but Cage's major influences lay in various East and South Asian cultures. Through his studies of Indian philosophy and Zen Buddhism in the late 1940s, Cage came to the idea of aleatoric or chance-controlled music, which he started composing in 1951. The "I Ching", an ancient Chinese classic text decision-making tool, which uses chance operations to suggest answers to questions one may pose, became Cage's standard composition tool for the rest of his life. In a 1957 lecture, "Experimental Music", he described music as "a purposeless play" which is "an affirmation of life – not an attempt to bring order out of chaos nor to suggest improvements in creation, but simply a way of waking up to the very life we're living".
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP] Gustav Holst  Gustav Theodore Holst (born Gustavus Theodore von Holst; 21 September 1874 – 25 May 1934) was an English composer, arranger and teacher. Best known for his orchestral suite "The Planets", he composed many other works across a range of genres, although none achieved comparable success. His distinctive compositional style was the product of many influences, Richard Wagner and Richard Strauss being most crucial early in his development. The subsequent inspiration of the English folksong revival of the early 20th century, and the example of such rising modern composers as Maurice Ravel, led Holst to develop and refine an individual style.  There were professional musicians in the previous three generations of Holst's family and it was clear from his early years that he would follow the same calling. He hoped to become a pianist, but was prevented by neuritis in his right arm. Despite his father's reservations, he pursued a career as a composer, studying at the Royal College of Music under Charles Villiers Stanford. Unable to support himself by his compositions, he played the trombone professionally and later became a teacher—a great one, according to his colleague Ralph Vaughan Williams. Among other teaching activities he built up a strong tradition of performance at Morley College, where he served as musical director from 1907 until 1924, and pioneered music education for women at St Paul's Girls' School, where he taught from 1905 until his death in 1934. He was the founder of a series of Whitsun music festivals, which ran from 1916 for the remainder of his life.  Holst's works were played frequently in the early years of the 20th century, but it was not until the international success of "The Planets" in the years immediately after the First World War that he became a well-known figure. A shy man, he did not welcome this fame, and preferred to be left in peace to compose and teach. In his later years his uncompromising, personal style of composition struck many music lovers as too austere, and his brief popularity declined. Nevertheless, he was an important influence on a number of younger English composers, including Edmund Rubbra, Michael Tippett and Benjamin Britten. Apart from "The Planets" and a handful of other works, his music was generally neglected until the 1980s, when recordings of much of his output became available.
Who was the composer of To Live? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP]  Tailor Wibbel (German:Schneider Wibbel) a 1938 opera by the German composer Mark Lothar. It is based on the 1913 comedy play Wibbel the Tailor by Hans Müller-Schlösser. Müller-Schlösser wrote the opera's libretto. It premiered at the Berlin State Opera on 12 May 1938.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP]  Mark Lothar [ló:tar] (born Lothar Hundertmark; 23 May 1902, in Berlin – 6 April 1985, in Munich) was a German composer. In May 1938 his opera Tailor Wibbel, inspired by a play by Hans Müller-Schlösser, was performed at the Berlin State Opera.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP]  According to the author, the story goes back to a true story in Berlin from the time of Kaiser Friedrich Wilhelm IV. A master baker had been involved in a drunken knife fight, and had been sentenced to several weeks in jail. The baker persuaded his journeyman assistant to serve the jail sentence in his stead. However, the journeyman dies in prison, and the baker is declared dead. When this becomes known, the Kaiser pardons the baker. For his play, Müller-Schlösser changed the setting to his hometown of Düsseldorf at the "period of the French occupation" following Napoleon’s conquest of the region in the early 1800s. The baker
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP]  Wibbel the Tailor (German:Schneider Wibbel) is a comedy play by the German writer Hans Müller-Schlösser which was first performed in 1913. The play takes place in Müller-Schlösser's hometown of Düsseldorf during its occupation by French troops during the Napoleonic Wars. From 1913 to 1956, there were fifteen hundred performances of the play in Germany with actor Paul Henckels in the role of Wibbel. Four feature films and an opera have been based on Müller-Schlösser's play, and the character of Anton Wibbel has become a popular symbol of Düsseldorf.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP] Wibbel the Tailor (1920 film), a German silent film directed by Manfred Noa (with Hermann Picha as Wibbel) ; Wibbel the Tailor (1931 film), a German film directed by Paul Henckels (with Paul Henckels as Wibbel) ; Wibbel the Tailor (1939 film), a German film directed by Viktor de Kowa (with Erich Ponto as Wibbel) ; Das Sonntagskind, a 1956 West German film directed by Kurt Meisel (with Heinz Rühmann as Wibbel) The play was a popular hit, and spawned a large number of adaptations such as the 1938 opera Tailor Wibbel by Mark Lothar and several films including:
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP] Tailor Wibbel  Tailor Wibbel (German:Schneider Wibbel) a 1938 opera by the German composer Mark Lothar. It is based on the 1913 comedy play "Wibbel the Tailor" by Hans Müller-Schlösser. Müller-Schlösser wrote the opera's libretto. It premiered at the Berlin State Opera on 12 May 1938.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP] Wibbel the Tailor (play)  Wibbel the Tailor (German:Schneider Wibbel) is a comedy play by the German writer Hans Müller-Schlösser which was first performed in 1913. The play takes place in Müller-Schlösser's hometown of Düsseldorf during its occupation by French troops during the Napoleonic Wars. From 1913 to 1956, there were fifteen hundred performances of the play in Germany with actor Paul Henckels in the role of Wibbel. Four feature films and an opera have been based on Müller-Schlösser's play, and the character of Anton Wibbel has become a popular symbol of Düsseldorf.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP] Mark Lothar  Mark Lothar [ló:tar] (born Lothar Hundertmark; 23 May 1902, in Berlin – 6 April 1985, in Munich) was a German composer. In May 1938 his opera "Tailor Wibbel", inspired by a play by Hans Müller-Schlösser, was performed at the Berlin State Opera.
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Tailor Wibbel? [SEP] Georg Jacoby  Georg Jacoby (23 July 1882 – 21 February 1964) was a German film director and screenwriter.
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP]  The music for the series was mainly composed by Xu Jingqing (许镜清).
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP]  To The West, with words by Charles Mackay and music by Henry Russell, was one of the most popular songs of the mid-nineteenth century in England. Of the song Russell boasted at the time that it created such a furore at the time of the mass emigrations of the 1840s that it "induced many thousands of people to turn attention to the promises held out by the New World."
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP]  A two-disc album of Geoff Zanelli's music was released in 2013 by La-La Land Records.
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP] Between 2005 and 2007, the American composer Barry Schrader created a four-part electro-acoustic composition cycle, Monkey King, which was named after the deeds of Sun Wukong. ; The 2008 album Journey to the West is the soundtrack to the musical stageplay Monkey: Journey to the West. It was composed by the English musician Damon Albarn with the UK Chinese Ensemble. The soundtrack itself is only based upon, but not a direct recording of the musical.
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP]  Journey to the West is the soundtrack to the stage musical Monkey: Journey to the West and is composed by English musician Damon Albarn (of Blur and Gorillaz fame) with the UK Chinese Ensemble. The soundtrack is based upon the musical, but is not a direct recording of it. The album was released as a download, CD, and double vinyl LP in the United Kingdom on 18 August 2008 by XL Recordings. In the United States, the album was released a day later as a download, while a CD was released on 23 September 2008.
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP] West Side Story  West Side Story is a musical conceived by Jerome Robbins with music by Leonard Bernstein, lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and a book by Arthur Laurents.  Inspired by William Shakespeare's play "Romeo and Juliet", the story is set in the mid-1950s in the Upper West Side of Manhattan in New York City, then a multiracial, blue-collar neighborhood. The musical explores the rivalry between the Jets and the Sharks, two teenage street gangs of different ethnic backgrounds. The Sharks, who are recent migrants from Puerto Rico, and the Jets, who are white, vie for dominance of the neighborhood, and the police try to keep order. The young protagonist, Tony, a former member of the Jets and best friend of the gang's leader, Riff, falls in love with Maria, the sister of Bernardo, the leader of the Sharks. The dark theme, sophisticated music, extended dance scenes, tragic love story, and focus on social problems marked a turning point in musical theatre.  The original 1957 Broadway production, directed and choreographed by Robbins, marked Sondheim's Broadway debut. It ran for 732 performances before going on tour. The production was nominated for six Tony Awards, including Best Musical, in 1958, winning two. The show had an even longer-running West End production, a number of revivals, and international productions. A 1961 musical film adaptation, co-directed by Robert Wise and Robbins, starred Natalie Wood and Richard Beymer. The film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards and won ten, including Best Picture. A 2021 film adaptation, directed by Steven Spielberg, starred Ansel Elgort and Rachel Zegler. That film was also nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture, along with six additional nominations, winning one Oscar.
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP] W. G. Snuffy Walden  William Garrett Walden, known as W. G. Snuffy Walden (born February 13, 1950), is an American musician and composer of film and television soundtracks. Walden is an Emmy Award winner for the theme music to "The West Wing" (NBC),
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP] Stephen Sondheim  Stephen Joshua Sondheim (; March 22, 1930November 26, 2021) was an American composer and lyricist. One of the most important figures in twentieth-century musical theater, Sondheim is credited for having "reinvented the American musical" with shows that tackle "unexpected themes that range far beyond the [genre's] traditional subjects" with "music and lyrics of unprecedented complexity and sophistication." His shows address "darker, more harrowing elements of the human experience," with songs often tinged with "ambivalence" about various aspects of life. He was known for his frequent collaborations with Hal Prince and James Lapine on the Broadway stage.  Sondheim's interest in musical theater began at a young age, and he was mentored by Oscar Hammerstein II. He began his career by writing the lyrics for "West Side Story" (1957) and "Gypsy" (1959). He transitioned to writing both music and lyrics for the theater, with his best-known works including "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum" (1962), "Company" (1970), "Follies" (1971), "A Little Night Music" (1973), "" (1979), "Merrily We Roll Along" (1981), "Sunday in the Park with George" (1984), and "Into the Woods" (1987).  Sondheim's numerous awards and nominations include eight Tony Awards (including a Lifetime Achievement Tony in 2008), an Academy Award, eight Grammy Awards, a Olivier Award, a Pulitzer Prize, a Kennedy Center Honor, and a Presidential Medal of Freedom. A theater is named after him both on Broadway and in the West End of London. Film adaptations of his works include "West Side Story" (1961), "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum" (1966), "" (2007), "Into the Woods" (2014), and "West Side Story" (2021).
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP]
Who was the composer of To The West? [SEP] Aaron Copland  Aaron Copland (, ; November 14, 1900December 2, 1990) was an American composer, composition teacher, writer, and later a conductor of his own and other American music. Copland was referred to by his peers and critics as "the Dean of American Composers". The open, slowly changing harmonies in much of his music are typical of what many people consider to be the sound of American music, evoking the vast American landscape and pioneer spirit. He is best known for the works he wrote in the 1930s and 1940s in a deliberately accessible style often referred to as "populist" and which the composer labeled his "vernacular" style. Works in this vein include the ballets "Appalachian Spring", "Billy the Kid" and "Rodeo", his "Fanfare for the Common Man" and Third Symphony. In addition to his ballets and orchestral works, he produced music in many other genres, including chamber music, vocal works, opera and film scores.  After some initial studies with composer Rubin Goldmark, Copland traveled to Paris, where he first studied with Isidor Philipp and Paul Vidal, then with noted pedagog Nadia Boulanger. He studied three years with Boulanger, whose eclectic approach to music inspired his own broad taste. Determined upon his return to the U.S. to make his way as a full-time composer, Copland gave lecture-recitals, wrote works on commission and did some teaching and writing. However, he found that composing orchestral music in the modernist style, which he had adopted while studying abroad, was a financially contradictory approach, particularly in light of the Great Depression. He shifted in the mid-1930s to a more accessible musical style which mirrored the German idea of ("music for use"), music that could serve utilitarian and artistic purposes. During the Depression years, he traveled extensively to Europe, Africa, and Mexico, formed an important friendship with Mexican composer Carlos Chávez and began composing his signature works.  During the late 1940s, Copland became aware that Stravinsky and other fellow composers had begun to study Arnold Schoenberg's use of twelve-tone (serial) techniques. After he had been exposed to the works of French composer Pierre Boulez, he incorporated serial techniques into his "Piano Quartet" (1950), "Piano Fantasy" (1957), "Connotations" for orchestra (1961) and "Inscape" for orchestra (1967). Unlike Schoenberg, Copland used his tone rows in much the same fashion as his tonal material—as sources for melodies and harmonies, rather than as complete statements in their own right, except for crucial events from a structural point of view. From the 1960s onward, Copland's activities turned more from composing to conducting. He became a frequent guest conductor of orchestras in the U.S. and the UK and made a series of recordings of his music, primarily for Columbia Records.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP]  The piece was an ordered composition for the Youth Wind Orchestra of Ellwangen (Germany) and it was a present for their 50th anniversary. In 2004, they performed it on their anniversary concert.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP]  The Witch is a ballet made by John Cranko to Maurice Ravel's Piano Concerto in G Major (1931). The premiere took place Friday, 18 August 1950 at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, London.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP]  The piece is scored for the standard 19th-century symphony orchestra with the addition of a bass clarinet and tubular bell. Dvořák's music follows the story closely and the orchestration is often used to illustrate characters and events: the oboe and bass clarinet are used to depict the misbehaving child and the witch respectively, whilst twelve strokes of a bell signal the coming of noon. During the witch's chase, the music alternates between two different time signatures as a further dramatic device. A semi-public performance was given at the Prague Conservatory on 3 June 1896 under Antonín Bennewitz. Its first full public première was on 21 November 1896, in London, under the baton of Henry Wood. The piece lasts about 13 minutes.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP]  The film contains an orchestral score composed by Stanley Myers. To date, a soundtrack CD has not been released, and the entire score remains obscure. Throughout the score, the Dies irae appears, highly reminiscent of Berlioz's Symphonie fantastique Movement V, "Dream of a Witches' Sabbath".
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP]  Larry Anthony Weir (born April 11, 1952) is a US songwriter, composer, producer, promoter and managing editor of New Music Weekly magazine. Weir is best known for songs in the musical, Teen Witch (1989), which has become an annual Halloween tradition on several television networks.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP] Witchcraft (1957 song)  "Witchcraft" is a popular song from 1957 composed by Cy Coleman with lyrics by Carolyn Leigh.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP] Mark Korven  Mark Korven is a Canadian musician and composer for film and television.<ref name="academy.ca"/> His work includes the music on the sci-fi horror cult film "Cube" (1997), collaborations with director Robert Eggers on the period horror films "The Witch" (2015) and "The Lighthouse" (2019), and Scott Derrickson's "The Black Phone" (2022).
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP] The Witch (2015 film)  The Witch (stylized as The VVitch, and subtitled A New-England Folktale) is a 2015 folk horror film written and directed by Robert Eggers in his feature directorial debut. It stars Anya Taylor-Joy in her first film appearance, along with Ralph Ineson, Kate Dickie, Harvey Scrimshaw, Ellie Grainger, and Lucas Dawson. Set in 1630s New England, it follows a Puritan family who encounter forces of evil in the woods beyond their farm.  An international co-production of the United States and Canada, "The Witch" premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 27, 2015, and was widely released by A24 on February 19, 2016, to critical and financial success, grossing $40 million against a $4 million budget.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP] Mobile Suit Gundam: The Witch from Mercury  "The Witch from Mercury" marks the first mainline "Gundam" TV anime production in seven years since "" and the first TV series in the franchise to feature a female protagonist (fourth in the franchise overall after "École du Ciel", "", and ""). The series revolves around themes of the dangers of emerging technologies alongside political corruption, criticism of capitalism and revenge. Section::::Plot. In the distant future, humanity has advanced into space and switched to the new calendar system of Ad Stella (AS). The solar system was split between "Spacians" and "Earthians", the inhabitants of space colonies and Earth, with a vast economic inequality between the two. Vanadis Institute created an advanced man-machine system called GUND, which would enable humans to survive in the harsh environment of space. But the Mobile Suit Development Council, led by the top mobile suit development companies, ordered a permanent ban on the development of the GUND Format. Council member Delling Rembran deployed the special forces team Dominicus to destroy the Vanadis research facility Fólkvangr, killing everyone aboard. Only two people narrowly survived: mobile suit test pilot Elnora Samaya and her four-year-old daughter Ericht Samaya.  Ad Stella 122, 21 years after the Vanadis incident, Suletta Mercury transfers from Mercury to the Asticassia School of Technology, an academic institute run by the megacorporation Benerit Group. Upon arrival, she encounters a girl escaping the institute, Miorine Rembran, who wants to escape from the controls of her father, Delling. As their paths cross in the academy with different ambitions and goals, Suletta will have to prove her worth as a pilot as she steps into the academy alongside the Gundam Aerial, a mobile suit built with the forbidden GUND Format technology.
Who was the composer of The Witch? [SEP] Ding-Dong! The Witch Is Dead  "Ding-Dong! The Witch Is Dead" is a song in the 1939 film "The Wizard of Oz". It is the centrepiece of several individual songs in an extended set-piece performed by the Munchkins, Glinda (Billie Burke) and Dorothy Gale. Highlighted by the Lollipop Guild consisting of Frankie Rumpf, Jaelen Hurst and Jesse-Carr was also sung by studio singers as being sung by the Winkie soldiers. It was composed by Harold Arlen, with the lyrics written by E. Y. Harburg. The group of songs celebrate the death of the Wicked Witch of the East when Dorothy's house is dropped on her by the tornado and the death of the Wicked Witch of the West after being splashed with water.  In 2004 "Ding-Dong! The Witch is Dead" finished at #82 in AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of the top tunes in American, cinema. In 2013, the song charted to #2 on the UK Singles Chart in the aftermath of the death of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  Images is a cycle of piano pieces composed by Howard Skempton in 1989. This work and a variations set, The Durham Strike, are the only large-scale piano works by Skempton, although he has been composing piano music since the beginning of his career. The work was commissioned by Channel 4's HTV West for "Images", a six-part television series of documentaries dealing with various aspects of photography. The series was created to mark the 150th anniversary of the invention of photography. The producer, Barrie Gavin, wanted the music to be similar in concept to Erik Satie's Gymnopedies: in the words of the composer,
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  pieces were to be "like a sculpture viewed from different angles in a changing light." The pianist who performed Images for the TV series was Michael Finnissy. Images comprises eight preludes, two "songs" (The Cockfight: a traditional song and Song 2), a set of variations, eight interludes and a postlude (Postlude: The Keel Row). In concert, the order of the pieces is not fixed and is left for the performer to determine. The eight preludes contain the pieces that directly correspond to Gavin's request. Preludes 1&ndash;3, all written on three staves and in 3/8 time, share identical rhythmic and melodic structure of
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  Monika Fink, who has been pursuing the topic of her doctoral thesis Musik nach Bildern (Music after Pictures) for over three decades, writes that she knows of no other composer who has so intensively and consistently dedicated himself to setting pictorial images to music. Under the supervision of Fink a project was initiated at the Department of Music at the University of Innsbruck to develop and maintain a comprehensive website devoted to the subject area “Music after Pictures” (see Musik nach Bildern). Numerous works by Steffens, especially those from recent years, are listed in this database, e.g., musical compositions on pictures by Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt van Rijn, and Emil Schumacher.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  1994. Articles and Papers: Introduction to ‘Images of the mind' (1997). Paper given at the 1997 KlangArt International Congress ‘New Music & Technology’ in Osnabrück, Germany. Published in ‘Musik und Neue Technologie 3, Musik im virtuellen Raum’ (edited by Bernd Enders), Universitätsverlag Rasch, Osnabrück (2000). ISBN: 3-934005-64-0. Conceptual models of interaction: towards a perceptual analysis of interactive composition (1997-8) Paper given at the 1997 Sonic Arts Network Conference, University of Birmingham, UK, 10–12 January 1998. Published in the Seamus Journal, USA, Vol. XIV no. 1, Summer 1999. SEAMUS, Sonic Arts Network Perceptual Abstraction and Electroacoustic Composition (1998) Paper given at the 1998 Seamus Conference, Dartmouth College, NH, USA, 16–18 April 1998 (1997–98).
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  The Photographer is a three-part mixed media performance accompanied by music (also sometimes referred to as a chamber opera) by composer Philip Glass. The libretto is based on the life and homicide trial of 19th-century English photographer Eadweard Muybridge. Commissioned by the Holland Festival, the opera was first performed in 1982 at the Royal Palace in Amsterdam.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Pictures at an Exhibition  Pictures at an Exhibition is a suite of ten piano pieces, plus a recurring, varied Promenade theme, composed by Russian composer Modest Mussorgsky in 1874. The piece is Mussorgsky's most famous piano composition, and it has become a showpiece for virtuoso pianists. It became further widely known through various orchestrations and arrangements produced by other composers and musicians, with Maurice Ravel's 1922 adaptation for full symphony orchestra being the most recorded and performed.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Images (Reggie Workman album)  Images is a live album by bassist and composer Reggie Workman. It was recorded at the Knitting Factory in New York City in January and July 1989, and was released in 1990 by Music & Arts. On the album, Workman is joined by clarinetist Don Byron, vocalist Jeanne Lee, guitarist Michele Navazio, pianist Marilyn Crispell, and percussionist Gerry Hemingway.  The title of the track "Jus' Ole Mae (Revisited)" refers to the fact that "Jus' Ole Mae" appeared on Workman's previous album, "Synthesis", released in 1986.<ref name="penguin" />
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Claude Debussy  (Achille) Claude Debussy (;<!--SEE TALK PAGE
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP]  The soundtrack was composed by Ilaiyaraaja, while the lyrics for all the songs were written by Vaali. It was released under the label AVM Audio in December 1993. Ilaiyaraaja, using the technique of M. B. Sreenivasan, composed the title track as a choir song. Urvashi was initially displeased with "Karavai Maadu" because it contained lyrics she considered were degrading, but after Vaali explained to her why he wrote those words, she was convinced.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP]  The film's soundtrack was composed by Ghibran. The soundtrack features seven songs and one instrumentals from the original score. The album was launched at Sathyam Cinemas, Chennai on 26 April 2017. The soundtrack included a song sung by actor Karthi, as well as three short songs sung by the film's leading veteran actresses.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP]  The soundtrack was composed by film composer Bobby Shankar. The soundtrack, released in 2000, features 6 tracks with lyrics written by Pulamaipithan and Kavi Varma.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP]  The music was composed by Shankar–Ganesh and the lyrics were written by Bichu Thirumala.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP]  The music of the film was composed by Rajan–Nagendra and the lyrics were written by Chi. Udaya Shankar. The song "Suthha Muthha" was received extremely well.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP] Dasavathaaram  Dasavathaaram () is a 2008 Indian Tamil-language science fiction action film directed by K. S. Ravikumar. It stars Kamal Haasan, who also wrote the script, in ten distinct roles. Asin appears in two roles and Mallika Sherawat plays a subsidiary role. The plot of the film revolves around bringing together the lives of several individuals beginning with the 12th century and ending with the 21st century; the main person being a research scientist who develops a bio-weapon and makes sure that it is not acquired by a terrorist nation. Several other people also get involved in the process and all their stories connect after the striking of 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, thus bringing philosophical views into the picture.  The film, which had been under production for nearly three years, was produced and primarily distributed by V. Ravichandran. Primary filming locations included the United States and across Tamil Nadu in India. The soundtrack to the film was composed by Himesh Reshammiya and the background score was by Devi Sri Prasad.  After delays in post-production, the film was released on 13 June 2008 in around 1300 prints worldwide<ref name="numbers" /> with praise directed at Haasan's multiple-role performance, the cinematography, and the editing, while criticism was directed at the prosthetics, writing and the addition of unnecessary characters portrayed by Haasan.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP] Sindhu Bhairavi (raga)  Sindhu Bhairavi is a raga in Hindustani and Carnatic classical music, belonging to the Asavari thaat. In Carnatic music it is a Janya raga of the 8th melakartha raga Hanumatodi.  The raga brings Viraham (separation), Shokam (sorrow), Karunam (compassion) and Bhakthi (devotion) rasas. In Carnatic music it is a "Bhashangaraga", in which all the 12 notes are applicable.  Sindhu Bhairavi is not to be confused with other similarly named ragas such as Sindhi Bhairavi, Sindh, Sindhura and Sindhura Bhairavi.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP] Kamal Haasan  Kamal Haasan (born 7 November 1954) is an Indian actor, filmmaker, screenwriter, playback singer, television presenter and politician who works mainly in Tamil cinema and has also appeared in some Telugu, Malayalam, Hindi, Kannada and Bengali films. He has been recognised as an influence for actors and filmmakers in the Tamil film industry. He is also known for introducing many new technologies and cosmetics to the Indian film industry. He has won numerous accolades, including four National Film Awards and 20 Filmfare Awards. He was awarded the Kalaimamani Award in 1984, the Padma Shri in 1990, the Padma Bhushan in 2014 and the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres ("Chevalier") in 2016.   Haasan started his career as a child artist in the 1960 Tamil-language film "Kalathur Kannamma", for which he won the President's Gold Medal. His breakthrough as a lead actor came in the 1975 drama "Apoorva Raagangal", directed by K. Balachander, in which he played a rebellious youth who falls in love with an older woman. He won his first National Film Award for his portrayal of a guileless school teacher who cares for a woman who suffers from retrograde amnesia in "Moondram Pirai" (1982). He was noted for his performances in K. Viswanath's "Swathi Muthyam" (1986), Mani Ratnam's "Nayakan" (1987), and S. Shankar's "Indian" (1996). Since then he has appeared in films including "Hey Ram" (2000), "Virumaandi" (2004), "Dasavathaaram" (2008) in which he played ten roles, "Vishwaroopam" (2013) and "Vikram" (2022). His production company, Raaj Kamal Films International, has produced several of his films.  For his philanthropic efforts, Haasan received the first Abraham Kovoor National Award in 2004. He was project ambassador for the Hridayaragam 2010 event, which raised funds for an orphanage for HIV/AIDS-affected children. In September 2010, Haasan launched a children's cancer relief fund and gave roses to children with cancer at Sri Ramachandra University in Porur, Chennai. Haasan was nominated by the Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the Swachh Bharat Mission. On 21 February 2018, Haasan formally launched his political party, Makkal Needhi Maiam (lit. People's Justice Centre). He has also received the Golden Visa from United Arab Emirates.
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP] Vijay Award for Favourite Song  The Vijay for Favorite Song is given by STAR Vijay as part of its annual Vijay Awards ceremony for Tamil (Kollywood) films. The award is chosen through public voting. Harris Jayaraj is the most frequent winner with three wins .
Who was the composer of Kallai Mattum? [SEP] Himesh Reshammiya films and discography  This is the discography of Indian singer composer Himesh Reshammiya. He has released 6 studio albums till date, All the details below contains his work as a playback singer, composer, lyricist and actor.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP]  "I Am in Love" is a 1953 popular song written by Cole Porter, for his musical Can-Can, where it was introduced by Peter Cookson.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP]  The song was composed by Don Lee and George White. It was released on Crescent 101 in 1981/1982.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP]  "I'm in Love" is a 1981 single by singer Evelyn "Champagne" King. The single was a hit on three different music charts in the United States, hitting number one on both the Soul and dance charts and number 40 on the Billboard Hot 100. It was the first of two chart entries by King to reach number one on both the Soul and dance charts.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP]  Album Singles
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP] The song has been frequently popularised through YouTube fan videos.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP] I'm in Love (Bobby Womack song)  "I'm in Love" is a song written by Bobby Womack. It was first recorded by Wilson Pickett in 1967, which gave him a top-ten R&B hit on "Billboard"'s chart in 1968, peaking at number 4 as well as peaking at number 45 on the "Billboard" Hot 100.
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP] I'm for Love  "I'm for Love" is a single by American singer-songwriter and musician Hank Williams Jr. It was released in May 1985 as the first single from the album "Five-O". The single was Williams Jr.'s seventh number one on the country chart. The single went to number one for one week and spent a total of fifteen weeks on the country chart. The A-side was written by Williams. The B-side was a cover of Warren Zevon's song "Lawyers, Guns and Money".
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP]
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP] I'm in Love Again (song)  "I'm in Love Again" is a 1956 single by Fats Domino. The song was written by Domino and his longtime collaborator, Dave Bartholomew. The single was Domino's fifth number one on the R&B Best Sellers list, where it stayed at the top for seven weeks. "I'm in Love Again" also peaked at number three for two weeks on the pop chart. "I'm in Love Again" was a double-sided hit for Domino as the B-side of the pop standard, "My Blue Heaven".
Who was the composer of I'm in Love? [SEP] I'm in Love (Evelyn King album)  I'm in Love is the fourth album released by R&B singer Evelyn "Champagne" King on RCA Records in 1981. It was produced by Morrie Brown, Willie Lester, Rodney Brown, Kashif, and Lawrence Jones.
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]  Alexander Scriabin's Prelude, Op. 49, No. 2 is the second of his Trois Morceaux Op. 49 (Three Pieces), which were written in 1905. It is notated in F major, 3/4 measure, with a speed of 69 per quarter note, and lasts for 23 measures (and an upbeat). It should be expressed Bruscamente irato (very irate).
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP] The Glenn Gould Edition: Chopin Piano Sonata No. 3, Mendelssohn Songs without Words etc. (S2K 52622) (also featured on volume 11 of the video Ecstasy and Wit (Sony SHV 48417) ; Mikhail Pletnev: Scriabin: 24 Preludes, Sonatas 4 & 10, etc. (2002) There are recordings by Glenn Gould (from 1973) and Mikhail Pletnev (from 1996).
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]  Alexander Scriabin's Prelude Opus 51 No. 2 is the second of his Quatre Morceaux (Four Pieces) op. 51, published in 1906. It is notated in A minor. It is written in a 6/8 beat in 30 measures (plus upbeat) and should be expressed Lugubre (dire). This is one of several pieces Scriabin never played in public (together with the Sonata No. 6 (op. 62)). He called it "Shattered Strings" (German "Zersprungene Saiten") when Leonid Sabaneyev reminded him of the piece during a discussion about minor and major. Sabaneyev quotes him with "Oh, let's not talk about this! This is a ghastly piece! [...] I was in an appalling situation back then. This Prelude, and also the Marche funebre in the First Sonata formed in moments disheartenment... But only these two!" (referring to his allegation that he had abandoned the minor tonality a long time ago).
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP] BuxWV 136 — Prelude in C major ; BuxWV 137 — Prelude (Prelude, Fuga and Ciacona) in C major ; BuxWV 138 — Prelude in C major ; BuxWV 139 — Prelude in D major ; BuxWV 140 — Prelude in D minor ; BuxWV 141 — Prelude in E major ; BuxWV 142 — Prelude in E minor ; BuxWV 143 — Prelude in E minor ; BuxWV 144 — Prelude in F major ; BuxWV 145 — Prelude in F major ; BuxWV 146 — Prelude in F-sharp minor ; BuxWV 147 — Prelude in G major ; BuxWV 148 — Prelude in G minor ; BuxWV 149 — Prelude in G minor ; BuxWV 150 — Prelude in G minor ; BuxWV 151 — Prelude in A major
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]  The Prelude Op. 59 No. 2 is one of the latest works written by Alexander Scriabin, it was completed in 1910, five years before his death. It is notated as "Sauvage, Belliqueux" (Savage/wild, belligerent).
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP] Alexander Goedicke  Alexander Fyodorovich Goedicke (; in Moscow9 July 1957 in Moscow) was a Soviet and Russian composer and pianist.  Goedicke was a professor at Moscow Conservatory. With no formal training in composition, he studied piano at the Moscow Conservatory with Galli, Pavel Pabst and Vasily Safonov. Goedicke won the Anton Rubinstein Competition in 1900. Despite his lack of traditional guidance, his compositional efforts were rewarded when he won the Rubinstein Prize for Composition at the young age of 23. Goedicke died at the age of 80 on 9 July 1957.  Alexander Goedicke was Nikolai Medtner's first cousin. Alexander's father Fyodor Goedicke, a minor composer and pianist, was Medtner's mother's brother and his first teacher.
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP] List of compositions by Felix Mendelssohn  This is a list of compositions by Felix Mendelssohn.
Who was the composer of Prelude in F major, Op. 49, No. 2? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP]  The Concerto for Piano is a composition for solo piano and orchestra by the American composer Elliott Carter. The work was commissioned by the pianist Jacob Lateiner with support from the Ford Foundation. It was composed between 1964 and 1965 and was first performed at Symphony Hall, Boston on January 6, 1967, by Lateiner and the Boston Symphony Orchestra under the conductor Erich Leinsdorf. The piece was dedicated to the composer Igor Stravinsky for his 85th birthday.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP]  The Piano Concerto in C-sharp minor, Op. 45, is a composition for solo piano and orchestra in four movements by the American composer Amy Beach. The work was composed between September 1898 and September 1899. It was first performed in Boston on April 7, 1900, with the composer as the soloist and the Boston Symphony Orchestra performing under the conductor Wilhelm Gericke. The composition is dedicated to the musician Teresa Carreño and was the first piano concerto by an American female composer.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP]  Rachmaninoff composed the concerto in Dresden completing it on September 23, 1909. Contemporary with this work are his First Piano Sonata and his tone poem The Isle of the Dead. Owing to its difficulty, the concerto is respected, even feared, by many pianists. Josef Hofmann, the pianist to whom the work is dedicated, never publicly performed it, saying that it "wasn't for" him. Gary Graffman lamented he had not learned this concerto as a student, when he was "still too young to know fear". Due to time constraints, Rachmaninoff could not practice the piece while in Russia. Instead, he practiced it on a silent keyboard that he brought with him while en route to the United States. The concerto
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP]  The Piano Concerto in A minor, Op. 17, is the only piano concerto written by the Polish composer and pianist Ignacy Jan Paderewski. It was written in the composer's twenties, with the first movement dating back to 1882, although the majority of the work was composed in 1888 and scored in 1889. After its completion, the composer showed the concerto to his friend Saint-Saëns, who admired it, and especially the andante movement. It premiered the same year in Vienna, achieving great success, where it was conducted by Hans Richter. The work was dedicated to Paderewski's teacher Theodor Leschetizky.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP]  The Concerto for Two Pianos (sometimes also referred to as Concerto for Two Solo Pianos or rather as its Italian original name, Concerto per due pianoforti soli) is a composition by Russian composer Igor Stravinsky. It was finished on November 9, 1935 and, together with his Sonata for Two Pianos, is considered nowadays as one of his major compositions for piano during his neoclassical period. It was also Stravinsky's first work after becoming a French citizen.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP] Piano concerto  A piano concerto is a type of concerto, a solo composition in the classical music genre which is composed for a piano player, which is typically accompanied by an orchestra or other large ensemble. Piano concertos are typically virtuoso showpieces which require an advanced level of technique on the instrument. These concertos are typically written out in music notation, including sheet music for the pianist (which they typically memorize for a more virtuosic performance), orchestra parts for the orchestra members, and a full score for the conductor, who leads the orchestra in the accompaniment of the soloist.  Depending on the era in which a piano concerto was composed, the orchestra parts may provide a fairly subordinate accompaniment role, setting out the bassline and chord progression over which the piano plays solo parts (more typical during the Baroque music era, from 1600 to 1750 and the Classical period, from 1730 to 1800), or the orchestra may be given an almost equal role to the piano soloist, with orchestra instrumentalists and sections introducing key musical themes and playing virtuostic parts for their instruments and in which there is a "dialogue" or "conversation" between the piano soloist and the orchestra. When music students and music competition auditionees play piano concertos, the orchestra part may be performed in an orchestral reduction, a conversion of the orchestra parts into a part for an accompanist playing piano or pipe organ, as it is very expensive to hire a full orchestra. Keyboard concerti were common in the time of Johann Sebastian Bach in the Baroque music era, during the Classical period and during the Romantic music era (1800–1910). Keyboard concertos are also written by contemporary classical music composers. Twentieth- and 21st-century piano concertos may include experimental or unusual performance techniques. In the 20th and 21st centuries, J. S. Bach's harpsichord concertos are sometimes played on piano. There are variant types of piano concertos, including double piano concertos, for two solo pianists and orchestra, and double or triple (or larger solo groups) concertos in which the piano soloist is joined by a violinist, cellist, or another instrumentalist.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP] Piano Concerto (Schumann)  The Piano Concerto in A minor, Op. 54, by the German Romantic composer Robert Schumann was completed in 1845 and is the composer's only piano concerto. The complete work was premiered in Dresden on 4 December 1845. It is one of the most widely performed and recorded piano concertos from the Romantic period.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP] Piano Concerto No. 3 (Rachmaninoff)  Sergei Rachmaninoff's Piano Concerto No. 3 in D minor, Op. 30, was composed in the summer of 1909. The piece was premiered on November 28 of that year in New York City with the composer as soloist, accompanied by the New York Symphony Society under Walter Damrosch. The work has the reputation of being one of the most technically challenging piano concertos in the standard classical piano repertoire.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP] Piano Concerto No. 1 (Tchaikovsky)  The Piano Concerto No. 1 in B minor, Op. 23, was composed by Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky between November 1874 and February 1875. It was revised in 1879 and in 1888. It was first performed on October 25, 1875, in Boston by Hans von Bülow after Tchaikovsky's desired pianist, Nikolai Rubinstein, criticised the piece. Rubinstein later withdrew his criticism and became a fervent champion of the work. It is one of the most popular of Tchaikovsky's compositions and among the best known of all piano concerti.  From 2021 to 2022, it served as the sporting anthem of the Russian Olympic Committee as a substitute of the country's actual national anthem as a result of the doping scandal that prohibits the use of its national symbols.
Who was the composer of Piano Concerto? [SEP] Piano Concerto (Grieg)  The Piano Concerto in A minor, Op. 16, composed by Edvard Grieg in 1868, was the only concerto Grieg completed. It is one of his most popular works and is among the most popular of the genre.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]  Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen (You are torn loose, afflicted sinners), BWV 224, is a cantata by Johann Sebastian Bach. He composed it in Leipzig in 1724 for an unknown occasion. The author of the text is unknown and there are only 30 measures of aria for soprano extant, copied by C. P. E. Bach.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]  Johann Sebastian Bach composed the church cantata Wer sich selbst erhöhet, der soll erniedriget werden (Whoever exalts himself, will be abased / KJV: For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased), BWV47, in Leipzig for the 17th Sunday after Trinity and first performed it on 13 October 1726.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]  It is Bach's earliest surviving secular cantata, composed while he was employed as court organist in Weimar. The work may have been intended as a gift from Bach's employer, William Ernest, Duke of Saxe-Weimar, for his neighbouring ruler, Duke Christian, who was a keen hunter. Bach is known to have stayed in Weißenfels in 1713 for the birthday celebrations. He went on to earn more commissions from Saxe-Weissenfels, and in 1729, Bach was appointed Royal Kapellmeister, but this position as court composer did not require residence at court.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]  Laß, Fürstin, laß noch einen Strahl (Let, Princess, let still one more glance) is a secular cantata composed as a funeral ode by Johann Sebastian Bach, first performed on 17 October 1727. In Wolfgang Schmieder's catalogue of Bach's works (BWV) it was assigned the number 198. It is also known as Trauerode or as Trauerode: auf den Tod der Königin Christiane Eberhardine.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]  Herz und Munde (cantata) ; BWV 221 – Wer sucht die Pracht, wer wünscht den Glanz (cantata) ; BWV 222 – Mein Odem ist schwach (cantata) ; BWV 223 – Meine Seele soll Gott loben (cantata) ; BWV 224 – Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen (cantata) ; BWV 225 – Singet dem Herrn ein neues Lied (motet) ; BWV 226 – Der Geist hilft unser Schwachheit auf (motet) ; BWV 227 – Jesu, meine Freude (motet) ; BWV 228 – Fürchte dich nicht (motet) ; BWV 229 – Komm, Jesu, komm (motet) ; BWV 230 – Lobet den Herrn, alle
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP] List of Bach cantatas  This is a sortable list of Bach cantatas, the cantatas composed by Johann Sebastian Bach. His almost 200 extant cantatas are among his important vocal compositions. Many are known to be lost. Bach composed both church cantatas, most of them for specific occasions of the liturgical year of the Lutheran Church, and secular cantatas.  Bach's earliest cantatas were written possibly from 1707, the year he moved to Mühlhausen, although he may have begun composing them at his previous post in Arnstadt. He began regular composition of church cantatas in Weimar between 1708 and 1717, writing one cantata per month. In his next position in Köthen, he composed no church cantatas, but secular cantatas for the court. Most of Bach's church cantatas date from his first years as and director of church music in Leipzig, a position which he took up in 1723. Working for Leipzig's and , it was part of Bach's job to perform a church cantata every Sunday and holiday, conducting soloists, the Thomanerchor and orchestra as part of the church service. In his first year there, starting after Trinity, Bach regularly composed a new cantata every week in his Bach's first cantata cycle. The following year, he followed the format, now basing each cantata on a Lutheran hymn in the chorale cantata cycle. He was less rigid over the following years, but still produced new compositions in his third to fifth years, the Picander cycle of 1728–29, and late works known up to 1745.  Bach also composed cantatas for other church services such as weddings and (the inauguration of a new town council), and he wrote secular cantatas, around 50 known works, for occasions such as academic functions of the University of Leipzig, and anniversaries and entertainment among the nobility and in society.  The list includes both extant cantatas and, as far as known, lost cantatas. It is sortable by the cantata number which equals the number in the Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis (BWV), by title, by occasion during the liturgical year, the year of composition and date of first performance, as far as known. The scoring is provided, grouped by singers and groups of instruments. Colouring shows which cantatas are not extant church cantatas and which works were not even composed by Bach, but attributed to him in the past. A link to the free score of the Bach Gesellschaft in the International Music Score Library Project (IMSLP) is provided if available.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP] Bach-Werke-Verzeichnis  The (BWV; ; ) is a catalogue of compositions by Johann Sebastian Bach. It was first published in 1950, edited by Wolfgang Schmieder. The catalogue's second edition appeared in 1990. An abbreviated version of that second edition, known as BWV, was published in 1998.  The catalogue groups compositions by genre. Even within a genre, compositions are not necessarily collated chronologically. For example, BWV 992 was composed many years before BWV 1. BWV numbers were assigned to 1,126 compositions in the 20th century, and more have been added to the catalogue in the 21st century. The Anhang (Anh.; Annex) of the BWV lists over 200 lost, doubtful and spurious compositions.
Who was the composer of Reißt euch los, bedrängte Sinnen, BWV 224? [SEP] Bach cantatas in honour of the Electors of Saxony are known, for example "Ihr Häuser des Himmels, ihr scheinenden Lichter", BWV 193.1, a name day cantata written in 1727 for Frederick Augustus II's father and predecessor. Was mir behagt, ist nur die muntre Jagd, BWV 208a The libretto of the original cantata was written by Salomon Franck for the occasion of the 31st birthday of Duke Christian of Saxe-Weissenfels. Apart from text adjustments in Bach's autograph score, such as the replacement of the name "Christian" by "Ernst August", the music of the BWV 208.2 version is deemed identical (or at
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP]  The Homecoming is a 1975 album by Canadian composer, pianist, and vibraphonist Hagood Hardy. Six of the tracks were composed by Hardy. The album also contained fellow Canadian musician Gordon Lightfoot's song "Cold on the Shoulder" and five songs by other songwriters. It reached #21 on the RPM Magazine Top Albums chart in October, 1975. In 1976, based on the music in this collection, Hardy was named Composer of the Year at the annual Juno Awards.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP]  Hugh Hagood Hardy, (February 26, 1937 &ndash; January 1, 1997) was a Canadian composer, pianist, and vibraphonist. He played mainly jazz and easy listening music. He is best known for the 1975 single, "The Homecoming" from his album of the same name, and for his soundtrack to the Anne of Green Gables and Anne of Avonlea films.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP]  The Russian composer Sergei Rachmaninoff was inspired by The Homecoming when he wrote his Prelude No. 10 in B minor, Op. 32. Valentine Antipov believed that the title The Return was relevant to the narrative of the set of preludes. Another composition by Rachmaninoff, his symphonic poem Isle of the Dead was inspired by Bocklin's painting of the same name.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP]  the music for the documentary film Homecoming, recounting the return of prisoners after the Second World War and directed by Henri Cartier-Bresson. For the radio, and at the request of Henri Dutilleux, he composed La légende des pays alliés by Louise de Vilmorin He competed again for the Prix de Rome in 1946 and obtained a second major prize, which earned him the position of director of the Conservatoire de Lille. It was during this period that he married pianist Lola Delwarde, who had a brilliant career as a concert pianist. He conducted many concerts and introduced a whole generation of Lille students to music. Lannoy died in Lille in June 1979.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP]  The title track, "The Homecoming", started out as music to a 1972 TV commercial for Salada tea. After being included in this album, it was released as a single in 1975 on the Isis label through the Toronto company, Hagood Hardy Productions. It rose to #14 on the Canadian charts, and to #41 on the pop and #6 on the easy listening US charts. It was certified Gold in Canada.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP] Homecoming (Kanye West song)  "Homecoming" is a song by American hip-hop recording artist Kanye West. It was included as the twelfth song on his third studio album "Graduation" (2007). The track was produced by West with Warryn Campbell and features a guest appearance from Chris Martin, lead vocalist of the British alternative rock band Coldplay. Martin sings the song's chorus and outro and provides a piano-driven motif. The song is a hip hop beat with pop-oriented refrains while also integrating elements of post-punk and new wave with arena rock sensibilities. "Homecoming" is written as a tribute dedicated to West's hometown of Chicago, Illinois. His conceptual lyricism expresses an extended metaphor where he personifies Chicago as a childhood sweetheart to convey his relationship with the city.  A reworking of a track entitled "Home (Windy)," the song first originated from a 2001 demo tape. While the lyrical content of the verses largely remain the same, the lyrics of the chorus for the original incarnation of "Homecoming" are different and were sung by singer John Legend. In addition, this recording had exhibited West's once trademark soulful vocal sample production style. "Homecoming" came about when West met Martin for the first time by chance at the famed Abbey Road Studios in London in February 2006. Afterwards, the two held an impromptu jam session and recorded the track, with Martin requesting that West alter the tone of his approach to the songwriting and production.  Although it was intended be the lead single of "Graduation", the song was released as the fifth and final single from the album on February 18, 2008. The single was met with moderate commercial success in the United States and Canada. It was more successful overseas, peaking in the top twenty on European charts and reaching the top-ten positions in Ireland and the United Kingdom. "Homecoming" has since been certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  Upon its release, "Homecoming" received mixed reviews from contemporary music critics. Though West was complimented for his introspective lyricism and storytelling abilities, Martin's contribution was met with polarizing reactions, with many criticizing his appearance due to him not being from Chicago. An accompanying music video for the single was directed by Hype Williams and filmed in Chicago. Shot entirely in black-and-white, the video features a montage of West traversing the streets of Chicago and showcases its landmarks, monuments and people. The music video was very well-received and praised for the way West's hometown is visually paid homage. It was nominated for Best Hip-Hop Video at the 2008 MTV Video Music Awards.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP] The Homecoming (album)  The Homecoming is a 1975 album by Canadian composer, pianist, and vibraphonist Hagood Hardy. Six of the tracks were composed by Hardy. The album also contained fellow Canadian musician Gordon Lightfoot's song "Cold on the Shoulder" and five songs by other songwriters. It reached #21 on the "RPM Magazine" Top Albums chart in October, 1975.  In 1976, based on the music in this collection, Hardy was named Composer of the Year at the annual Juno Awards.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP] Spider-Man: Homecoming  Spider-Man: Homecoming is a 2017 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, co-produced by Columbia Pictures and Marvel Studios, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is the second Spider-Man film reboot and the 16th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Jon Watts, from a screenplay by the writing teams of Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley, Watts and Christopher Ford, and Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers. Tom Holland stars as Peter Parker / Spider-Man, alongside Michael Keaton, Jon Favreau, Gwyneth Paltrow, Zendaya, Donald Glover, Jacob Batalon, Laura Harrier, Tony Revolori, Bokeem Woodbine, Tyne Daly, Marisa Tomei, and Robert Downey Jr. In the film, Peter Parker tries to balance high school life with being Spider-Man while facing the Vulture (Keaton).  In February 2015, Marvel Studios and Sony reached a deal to share the film rights for Spider-Man, integrating the character into the established MCU. The following June, Holland was cast as the title character, and Watts was hired to direct. This was followed shortly by the hiring of Daley and Goldstein. In April 2016, the film's title was revealed, along with additional cast, including Downey in his MCU role of Tony Stark / Iron Man. Principal photography began in June 2016 at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia, and continued in Atlanta, Los Angeles, and New York City. The other screenwriters were revealed during filming, which concluded in Berlin in October 2016. The production team made efforts to differentiate the film from previous Spider-Man films.  "Spider-Man: Homecoming" premiered in Hollywood on June 28, 2017, and was released in the United States on July 7, as part of of the MCU. "Homecoming" grossed over $880million worldwide, becoming the second-most-successful Spider-Man film and the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2017. It received praise for the light tone, its focus on Parker's high school life, and the performances, particularly of Holland and Keaton. Two sequels have been released: "" (2019) and "" (2021). A new trilogy of live-action films from Sony and Marvel Studios is in development.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP] Hagood Hardy  Hugh Hagood Hardy, (February 26, 1937 – January 1, 1997) was a Canadian composer, pianist, and vibraphonist. He played mainly jazz and easy listening music. He is best known for the 1975 single, "The Homecoming" from his album of the same name, and for his soundtrack to the "Anne of Green Gables" and "Anne of Avonlea" films.
Who was the composer of Homecoming? [SEP] The Homecoming  The Homecoming is a two-act play written in 1964 by Harold Pinter and first published in 1965. Its premières in London (1965) and New York (1967) were both directed by Sir Peter Hall. The original Broadway production won the 1967 Tony Award for Best Play. Its 40th-anniversary Broadway production at the Cort Theatre was nominated for a 2008 Tony Award for "Best Revival of a Play".  Set in North London, the play has six characters. Five of these are men who are related to each other: Max, a retired butcher; his brother Sam, a chauffeur; and Max's three sons: Teddy, a philosophy professor in the United States; Lenny, a pimp who only makes discreet references to his "occupation" and his clientele and flats in the city (London); and Joey, a brute training to become a professional boxer and who works in demolition.   There is one woman, Ruth, Teddy's wife. The play concerns Teddy's and Ruth's "homecoming," which has distinctly different symbolic and thematic implications. In the initial productions and the film of the same name, Pinter's first wife, Vivien Merchant, played Ruth.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP]  The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif is an opera in two acts by contemporary American composer Stephen Hartke, with an English libretto by the Philip Littell, based on the short story Boule de Suif by Guy de Maupassant. It was commissioned by the Glimmerglass Opera, and premiered on 22 July 2006 at Glimmerglass, in Cooperstown, New York.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP]  Response to the opera in 2006 was mixed. Alex Ross of The New Yorker called The Greater Good "a tightly constructed, vividly imagined piece that may mark the emergence of a major opera composer." The Los Angeles Times, despite complaining that "exploring [the characters'] inner lives leads nowhere", praised Hartke's music for its liveliness and theatrical flair. On the other hand, the Toronto Star said that "Hartke's music, while easy enough to listen to, became even easier to forget".
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] Burchett Glimmerglass Opera Orchestra Robertson Naxos
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP]  The opera is set in 1871, at the end of the Franco-Prussian War. In Act I, a group of French citizens flee Rouen, which has been occupied by the Prussians, travelling to Le Havre in a stagecoach. The prostitute Boule de Suif is initially snubbed by all of the other, more "proper" passengers. However, Boule is the only one to have planned ahead for the trip and brought a basket of food. She takes pity on her hungry travelling companions and shares her food with them. For Boule's kindness and generosity, they are all grateful and become friendly to her. When the coach reaches the village of Tôtes, the occupants are detained at an inn by Prussian soldiers. In Act II, the travelers learn that the Prussian commandant will not permit them to continue on their way unless Boule sleeps with him. The others initially support Boule in rejecting the commandant's demand, but over time their attitude changes and they urge Boule to comply. Eventually, she complies for "the greater good". In the final scene, travelers resume their journey, but Boule is once again ostracized by those whom she had saved.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP]  1959 Anatole Litvak's The Journey with Deborah Kerr and Yul Brynner borrowed heavily from the plot device of a group of travellers detained by an authoritarian foreign officer with a romantic interest in an attractive passenger. ; In July 2006, the opera The Greater Good, or The Passion of Boule de Suif opened as a part of the Glimmerglass Opera Festival in Cooperstown, New York. The opera was composed by Stephen Hartke based on a libretto by Phillip Littell and directed by David Schweizer. ; In 2007, Dr. Kausar Mahmood translated Boule de Suif and many other stories into the Urdu language under the title of " Momi Gainde".
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif  The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif is an opera in two acts by contemporary American composer Stephen Hartke, with an English libretto by the Philip Littell, based on the short story Boule de Suif by Guy de Maupassant. It was commissioned by the Glimmerglass Opera, and premiered on 22 July 2006 at Glimmerglass, in Cooperstown, New York.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] Boule de Suif  Boule de Suif (), translated variously as Dumpling, Butterball, Ball of Fat, or Ball of Lard, is a famous short story by the late 19th-century French writer Guy de Maupassant, first published on 15/16 April 1880. It is arguably his most famous short story and is the title story for his collection on the Franco-Prussian War, titled Boule de Suif et Autres Contes de la Guerre ("Dumpling and Other Stories of the War").
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] Stephen Hartke  Stephen Paul Hartke (born July 6, 1952) is an American composer. Hartke is best known as the composer of "Meanwhile – Incidental Music to Imaginary Puppet Plays," winner of the Grammy Award for Best Contemporary Classical Composition in 2013.  Following a twenty six-year tenure at the Thornton School of Music of the University of Southern California, Hartke became the head of Oberlin Conservatory's composition department on July 1, 2015.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] Stewart Robertson  Stewart Robertson (born 22 May 1948, Glasgow) is a Scottish conductor. He attended the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama and Bristol University. He studied piano in London with Denis Matthews, and conducting with Otmar Suitner at the Mozarteum Academy and Hans Swarowsky at the Vienna Academy.
Who was the composer of The Greater Good, or the Passion of Boule de Suif? [SEP] Guy de Maupassant  Henri René Albert Guy de Maupassant (, ; ; 5 August 1850 – 6 July 1893) was a 19th-century French author, remembered as a master of the short story form, as well as a representative of the Naturalist school, who depicted human lives, destinies and social forces in disillusioned and often pessimistic terms.  Maupassant was a protégé of Gustave Flaubert and his stories are characterized by economy of style and efficient, seemingly effortless "dénouements". Many are set during the Franco-Prussian War of the 1870s, describing the futility of war and the innocent civilians who, caught up in events beyond their control, are permanently changed by their experiences. He wrote 300 short stories, six novels, three travel books, and one volume of verse. His first published story, "Boule de Suif" ("The Dumpling", 1880), is often considered his most famous work.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP]  Gisela! was first performed in the Maschinenhalle of the, Gladbeck, Germany, on 25 September 2010 as part of the Ruhrtriennale music and arts festival by the contemporary music ensemble musikFabrik in collaboration with local youth groups and students of the Folkwang University, Essen. The work was commissioned 2008 by the Ruhr.2010 (European Culture Capital 2010) and the Semperoper, Dresden, where it was performed on 20 November 2010. A performance lasts for about 1 hour and 15 minutes. The conductor Steven Sloane (who was also the music director of the Ruhr.2010 festival) first performed the work. Pierre Audi directed, the cast included Hanna Herfurtner as Gisela, Fausto Reinhardt as Gennaro and Michael Dahmen as Hanspeter. The Semperoper team included the conductor Erik Nielsen and the director Elisabeth Stöppler, with Nadja Mchantaf as Gisela, Giorgio Berrugi as Gennaro and Markus Butter as Hanspeter.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP]  'Gisela! oder: Die merk- und denkwürdigen Wege des Glücks (German for Gisela! or: The Strange and Memorable Ways of Happiness') is an opera by Hans Werner Henze.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Premiere Gladbeck, RuhrTriennale, Ruhr.2010, 25 September 2010; conductor: Steven Sloane, director: Pierre Audi ; Premiere Dresden version, Semperoper Dresden, 20 November 2010; conductor: Erik Nielsen, director: Elisabeth Stöppler ; First performance in Italy, Teatro Massimo Palermo, 21 January 2015; conductor: Constantin Trinks, director: Emma Dante
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP]  The two first productions of Gisela! at the Ruhrtriennale and in Dresden show the two possible performing options: at the Ruhrtriennale all the performers were young people, mostly teens, and in Dresden the Staatskapelle and Staatsopernchor as well as the main Ensemble performed the work. The original commission, as discussed with Hans Werner Henze, Michael Kerstan, Ruhr.2010 music director Steven Sloane and Eytan Pessen was to continue the direction of Henze's Pollicino (a work written for children performers). Gisela!'s target performers are teenagers and young singers, although the score is demanding for orchestra, chorus and soloists – it is nevertheless performable by talented young singers. The Dresden version includes a slightly expanded arietta for the role of Hanspeter, and numerous changes. It is this version that was published.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Messeschlager Gisela (1960, premiered at Metropol Theater Berlin) ; Servus Peter (1961) ; Mein Freund Bunbury (1964, premiered at Metropol Theater Berlin) based on The Importance of Being Earnest ; Casanova (1976, premiered at Metropol Theater Berlin) ; Caballero (1988)
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Gisela (singer)  Gisela Lladó Cánovas (born 1 January 1979), known mononymously as Gisela, is a Spanish pop singer and voice actress. She was born in El Bruc (Barcelona), in Catalonia, Spain and studied journalism at the Autonomous University of Barcelona before becoming famous after placing eighth in the first Spanish edition of "Operación Triunfo" in 2001. She is also known for representing Andorra in the Eurovision Song Contest 2008 in Belgrade, Serbia.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Gisela Selden-Goth  Gisela Schlesinger Selden-Goth (6 June 1884 - 5 September 1975) was a Hungarian author, composer and musicologist who became an American citizen in 1939. She composed at least four string quartets and donated her large collection of original music manuscripts to the Library of Congress. Her writing and musical compositions were published under the name Gisela Selden-Goth.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Gisela Agnes of Rath  Gisela Agnes of Rath (9 October 1669, in Kleinwülknitz, now part of Köthen – 12 March 1740, in Nienburg) was Duchess of Anhalt-Köthen by marriage from 1692. In 1694, she was created Countess of Nienburg. From 1704 to 1715, she was regent of Anhalt-Köthen for her underage son.
Who was the composer of Gisela!? [SEP] Gisela Mashayekhi-Beer  Gisela Mashayekhi-Beer (born before 1966) is an Austrian flautist and professor at the University of Music and Performing Arts Vienna as well as lecturer at the .
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP]  Giants in the Earth is a 1951 Pulitzer Prize-winning opera in three acts and four scenes by composer Douglas Moore. The work uses an English libretto by Arnold Sundgaard (1909–2006) after Ole Edvart Rølvaag's 1924-5 novel of the same name. The idea for the opera was originally conceived by Sundgaard, and depicts a story of tragedy and romance among Norwegian American settlers of Dakota Territory in 1873. Composed during 1949-1949, the work was premiered on March 28, 1951 at Columbia University's Brander Matthews Theatre by the Columbia Opera Workshop. The Pulitzer jury concluded: "In no opera by an American is there music of such freshness, beauty, and distinctive character. The music has a life of its own apart from its appositeness to the text... Subject, text, and music avoid the cliché and commonplace and combine for an impression of strength and
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP]  The group produced "Pictures at an Exhibition: Framed in Jazz" in 1963, a big band-style production of the Modest Mussorgsky piano suite. He is credited, along with Hugh Heller, to writing the San Francisco "Giants Fight Song" in 1961. During the 1970s, he collaborated extensively with composer Jack Elliott, co-writing the themes to Barney Miller and Charlie's Angels. University of Southern California music historian Jon Burlingame called the themes "iconic in the sense that most people who were around in that era can easily recall those tunes". Together with Eliott, he created scores for episodes of Banacek, Fish, Police Story, Big Hawaii, Starsky & Hutch, S.W.A.T. and The Rookies.
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP]  In November 2015, in co-production with Universal Music and its classical music label Deutsche Grammophon, Giants Are Small launched Peter and the Wolf in Hollywood, based on the classic 1937 work by Russian composer Sergei Prokofiev, a project appearing in app, CD, and digital album formats. Co-directed by Doug Fitch (also credited as designer and illustrator) and Edouard Getaz (also credited as producer, video director, and sound designer), the project features the Prokofiev work combined with an original prequel that’s accompanied by a selection of musical works by classical composers such as Richard Wagner, Robert Schumann, Gustav Mahler, and Eric Satie. The project is narrated in English by rock musician Alice Cooper; in German (Peter und der Wolf in Hollywood) by rock musician Campino, lead singer of the Düsseldorf band Die Toten Hosen and in Dutch (Peter En De Wolf In Hollywood) by Dutch actor/comedian Paul Haenen. Giants Are Small's co-founder Frederic Gumy is credited as producer.
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP]  Giant grew up in New York City and was known as Bill "Harvey" Zimmerman. He was part of the popular songwriting team Giant, Baum and Kaye, writing songs with Bernie Baum and Florence Kaye. The majority of their work was used in Presley movies, although their most popular recording was "(You're The) Devil in Disguise" which reached No.3 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and No.1 on the U.K. singles chart in 1963. They were also credited with writing the American version of Osamu Tezuka's anime "Kimba the White Lion" (1965). Giant became a realtor in Middlesex County, New Jersey in his later years. His other memorable name was Billy Merman.
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] Battle of the Giants – by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman – Musical Director and Orchestrator ; Real Life Funnies – by Alan Menken and Howard Ashman – Musical Director and Orchestrator ; City of Light – Composer with Beverly Ross ; Cairo – Musical Director and Orchestrator ; Sam Gray – Musical Director and Orchestrator - Bonnie Sanders ; Broadway Moon – Musical Director and Orchestrator ; The Road to Hollywood, by Michael Pace & Rob Preston – Musical Director and Orchestrator Spahn functioned a Musical Director and Orchestrator or Composer on numerous musicals, including the following:
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] Giants (Dermot Kennedy song)  "Giants" is a song by Irish singer-songwriter and musician Dermot Kennedy. It was released as a digital download on 24 June 2020 by Riggins, Interscope and Island. The track peaked at Number 12 in the UK Chart and was the lead single from Dermot Kennedy's Number 1 Album (UK, Scottish and Irish Charts) 'Without Fear' and his only single on vinyl - released on a blue 7" in 2020.  The song peaked at number one on the Irish Singles Chart. The song was written by Stephen Kozmeniuk, Scott Harris and Dermot Kennedy.
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] Giant (1956 film)  Giant is a 1956 American epic Western drama film, directed by George Stevens from a screenplay adapted by Fred Guiol and Ivan Moffat from Edna Ferber's 1952 novel.  The film stars Elizabeth Taylor, Rock Hudson and James Dean and features Carroll Baker, Jane Withers, Chill Wills, Mercedes McCambridge, Dennis Hopper, Sal Mineo, Rod Taylor, Elsa Cárdenas and Earl Holliman.  "Giant " was the last of James Dean's three films as a leading actor, and earned him his second and last Academy Award nomination – he was killed in a car crash before the film was released. His friend Nick Adams was called in to do some voice dubbing for Dean's role.  In 2005, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] The Iron Giant  The Iron Giant is a 1999 American animated science fiction film produced by Warner Bros. Feature Animation and directed by Brad Bird in his directorial debut. It is based on the 1968 novel "The Iron Man" by Ted Hughes (which was published in the United States as "The Iron Giant") and was scripted by Tim McCanlies from a story treatment by Bird. The film stars the voices of Jennifer Aniston, Harry Connick Jr., Vin Diesel, James Gammon, Cloris Leachman, John Mahoney, Eli Marienthal, Christopher McDonald, and M. Emmet Walsh. Set during the Cold War in 1957, the film centers on a young boy named Hogarth Hughes, who discovers and befriends a giant alien robot. With the help of a beatnik artist named Dean McCoppin, Hogarth attempts to prevent the U.S. military and Kent Mansley, a paranoid federal agent, from finding and destroying the Giant.  The film's development began in 1994 as a musical with the involvement of the Who's Pete Townshend, though the project took root once Bird signed on as director and hired McCanlies to write the screenplay in 1996. The film was animated using traditional animation, with computer-generated imagery used to animate the Iron Giant and other effects. The understaffed crew of the film completed it with half of the time and budget of other animated features. Michael Kamen composed the film's score, which was performed by the Czech Philharmonic.  "The Iron Giant" premiered at Mann's Chinese Theater in Los Angeles on July 31, 1999, and was released in the United States on August 6. The film significantly underperformed at the box office, grossing $31.3 million worldwide against a production budget of $50 million, which was blamed on Warner Bros.' unusually poor marketing campaign and skepticism towards animated film production following the mixed critical reception and box office failure of "Quest for Camelot" in the preceding year. Despite this, the film was praised for its story, animation, characters, the portrayal of the title character and the voice performances of Aniston, Connick Jr., Diesel, Mahoney, Marienthal, and McDonald. The film was nominated for several awards, winning nine Annie Awards out of 15 nominations. Through home video releases and television syndication, the film gathered a cult following and is widely regarded as a modern animated classic, and one of the greatest animated films ever made. In 2015, an extended, remastered version of the film was re-released theatrically, and on home video the following year.<ref name="BOBuz" /><ref name="BR" />
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] They Might Be Giants  They Might Be Giants (often abbreviated as TMBG) is an American alternative rock band formed in 1982 by John Flansburgh and John Linnell. During TMBG's early years, Flansburgh and Linnell frequently performed as a duo, often accompanied by a drum machine. In the early 1990s, TMBG expanded to include a backing band. The duo has been credited as vital in the creation and growth of the prolific DIY music scene in Brooklyn in the mid-1980s; the duo's current backing band consists of Marty Beller, Dan Miller and Danny Weinkauf.  The group have been noted for their unique style of alternative music, typically using surreal, humorous lyrics, experimental styles and unconventional instruments in their songs. Over their career, they have found success on the modern rock and college radio charts. They have also found success in children's music with several educational albums, and in theme music for television programs and films.  TMBG have released 23 studio albums. "Flood" has been certified platinum, while their children's music albums "Here Come the ABCs", "Here Come the 123s", and "Here Comes Science" have all been certified gold. The group has won two Grammy Awards. They were nominated for a Tony Award for Best Original Score (Music and/or Lyrics) Written for the Theatre for "SpongeBob SquarePants: The Broadway Musical". In total, the group has sold over 4 million records.
Who was the composer of The Giants? [SEP] Land of the Giants  Land of the Giants is a one-hour American science fiction television series that aired on ABC for two seasons, beginning on September 22, 1968 and ending on March 22, 1970. The show was created and produced by Irwin Allen. "Land of the Giants" was Allen's fourth science-fiction TV series. The show was and released by 20th Century Fox Television. The series was filmed entirely in color and ran for 51 episodes. The show starred Gary Conway and special guest star Kurt Kasznar.  Five novels based on the television series, including three written by acclaimed science-fiction author Murray Leinster, were published in 1968 and 1969.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP]  To Shiver the Sky is the third studio album by the American composer Christopher Tin. Released in 2020, it features texts about the history of flight ranging from Leonardo da Vinci's writings on flight to John F. Kennedy's "We choose to go to the Moon" speech. Creation of the album was funded by a Kickstarter campaign. The campaign met its goal in the first 36 hours, and went on to raise $221,415 (over 4 times the initial goal), making it the highest funded classical music Kickstarter project ever. The song "Sogno di Volare" was composed as a main theme for the 2016 video game Civilization VI.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP]  is entitled An Airplane Carried Me to Bed, and was released July 13, 2010, via iTunes. In May 2010, Young collaborated with high-profile British electronic composer, producer, musician, and songwriter Nick Bracegirdle. Under his Chicane alias, Bracegirdle released the single "Middledistancerunner" on August 1, 2010, featuring Adam Young on vocals. This is the first single from the fourth Chicane album Giants. He also worked with famed Dutch producer Armin van Buuren, appearing on a track called 'Youtopia' from the van Buuren album Mirage. In September, "To the Sky" was officially released via iTunes on the soundtrack for Legend of the Guardians: The Owls of Ga'hoole. On
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP]  "To the Sky" is a song by Macedonian Serbian singer Tijana. It was composed by Darko Dimitrov and Lazar Cvetkovski, while the lyrics were written by Dimitrov and Elena Risteska Ivanovska. It was internally selected to represent Macedonia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 in Denmark. The song was revealed on 22 February 2014, and was made available for digital download the next day through the iTunes Store.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] Stage ; The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky, Opera in 4 scenes (1967); libretto by Ray Benedict West, Jr. adapted from the short story by Stephen Crane Orchestra ; Air for Strings for string orchestra (1948) ; Mooney's Grove Suite (1964, revised 1967) ; Three Dances (1962) ; Overture Concertante ; Concerto for violin and orchestra (1950s) ; Reflections for flute and band (1965) ; Elegiac Rhapsody for viola and orchestra; initially composed as a separate work, used as movement II of the Viola Concerto ; Concerto for viola and orchestra (1969) ; Two Elegies for solo cello and cello ensemble
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP]  and premiered by the University of Texas Wind Ensemble, Jerry Junkin, conductor ; Millennium Canons (band version arr. Mark Spede) (2003), commissioned and premiered by The University of Texas Wind Ensemble, Jerry Junkin, conductor ; SATB Choir ; To Touch the Sky (2012), SSAATTBB, commissioned by the Thelma Hunter Fund of the American Composers Forum and Conspirare, Craig Hella Johnson, conductor ; If I Were A Swan (2012), SSAATTBB, commissioned by the Thelma Hunter Fund of the American Composers Forum and Conspirare, Craig Hella Johnson, conductor ; Concertos ; Concerto for Marimba and Orchestra (1997), commissioned by the Vermont Symphony Orchestra and the Kobe Ensemble of Japan, Makoto Nakura, marimba ; Concerto
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] Sky Macklay  Sky Macklay (born 1988) is an American composer of concert music and an oboist. She was winner of the Leo Kaplan Award (the top prize in the Morton Gould Young Composer Award of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers) in 2013 and 2016. Previously, she served as Assistant Professor of Composition at Valparaiso University. and serves as Lecturer of Composition at the Peabody Institute.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] Arata Iiyoshi  , also known as S.S.D.FANTASICA, is a freelancer composer. He has contributed music as a video game music composer for the Bemani division, but also video games published by Nintendo such as the "Super Smash Bros." series, or developed by Chunsoft like the "Pokémon" crossover of the "Mystery Dungeon" franchise and the "Kamaitachi no Yoru" series.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] A Sky Full of Stars  "A Sky Full of Stars" is a song by the British rock band Coldplay. It was released in May 2014 as the second single from their sixth album, "Ghost Stories" (2014). An exclusive digital EP version of it, with the B-sides "All Your Friends", "Ghost Story" and "O (Reprise)", came out in the following weeks, being considered the band's eleventh extended play.  The band co-wrote and co-produced the song with Avicii and received production assistance from Paul Epworth, Daniel Green and Rik Simpson. It was recorded at The Bakery and The Beehive in North London, England. Upon its release, "A Sky Full of Stars" garnered mostly positive reviews from music critics and charted inside the top 10 in over 16 countries such as Australia, Canada, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and United States.  A music video for the song was directed by Mat Whitecross and was released on 19 June 2014. The single peaked at number one in Italy, Israel, Luxembourg, Portugal, Lebanon, and the Walloon region of Belgium. It also topped the "Billboard" Hot Dance Club Songs chart. It was nominated for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 57th Grammy Awards.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] Sky (English/Australian band)  Sky were an English/Australian instrumental rock group that specialised in combining a variety of musical styles, most prominently rock, classical and jazz. The group's original and best-known line-up featured classical guitarist John Williams (Australian), bass player Herbie Flowers, electric guitarist Kevin Peek (Australian), drummer Tristan Fry and keyboard player Francis Monkman.
Who was the composer of To the Sky? [SEP] Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star  "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star" is a popular English lullaby. The lyrics are from an early-19th-century English poem written by Jane Taylor, "The Star". The poem, which is in couplet form, was first published in 1806 in "Rhymes for the Nursery", a collection of poems by Taylor and her sister Ann. It is sung to the tune of the French melody "Ah! vous dirai-je, maman", which was published in 1761 and later arranged by several composers, including Mozart with Twelve Variations on "Ah vous dirai-je, Maman". The English lyrics have five stanzas, although only the first is widely known. It has a Roud Folk Song Index number of 7666.  The song is in the public domain, and has many adaptations around the world, including the "Alphabet song" and "Baa, Baa, Black Sheep".
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP]  Say When is an American musical with music by Ray Henderson, lyrics by Ted Koehler, and a musical book by Jack McGowan. Directed by Bertram Harrison, the production opened on Broadway at the Imperial Theatre where it ran from November 8, 1934, through January 12, 1935 for a total of 76 performances.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP]  Bruce Saylor (born April 24, 1946, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American composer.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP] Attribution
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP]  Kopatchinskaja-Say is the first studio album by violinist Patricia Kopatchinskaja (1977) from Moldova, and the 16th for pianist and composer Fazıl Say (1970) from Turkey. Recorded in October 2007 in Köln, Germany, it was released by Naïve Classique on September 15, 2008. Kopatchinskaja-Say features the music of Beethoven, Ravel, Bartók, and an original composition by Say.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP]  Paul Stanley (né Sonnenberg) (February 8, 1848 – March 14, 1909) was a German-born American composer and vaudeville comedian who some credit (but most do not) with writing the music for the ditty Ta-ra-ra Boom-de-ay for Henry F. Sayers' 1891 musical entertainment, Tuxedo.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP] Fazıl Say  Fazıl Say (; born 14 January 1970 in Ankara) is a Turkish pianist and composer.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP] Say Something (A Great Big World song)  "Say Something" is a song by American pop duo A Great Big World from their debut album, "Is There Anybody Out There?" (2013). Written by the duo members—Ian Axel and Chad King—alongside Mike Campbell, the song was originally recorded by Axel for his solo album "This Is the New Year" (2011). It was later released as a single by the duo on September 3, 2013, by Epic Records. Following its usage on American reality TV show "So You Think You Can Dance", the track gained attention from singer Christina Aguilera, who wanted to collaborate with A Great Big World on the song. Soon afterwards, a re-recorded version of "Say Something" with Aguilera was released on November 4, 2013.  "Say Something" is a slow-tempo piano ballad that talks about a breakup, where the lover is implored to say something because the singer is giving up on them, with the singers expressing humility, sadness, and regret. In the single version with Aguilera, she plays a ghost of the lover to whom the song is addressed as she traces the steps of the lead vocal. The song was praised by music critics for its powerful lyrics, the emotional composition and Aguilera's vocal delivery. At the 57th Annual Grammy Awards, the song earned A Great Big World and Aguilera a Grammy Award for Best Pop Duo/Group Performance.  "Say Something" did not sell significantly well until the version with Aguilera was available. It debuted at number 16 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart after A Great Big World and Aguilera performed the song on "The Voice". It eventually peaked at number four and has since sold over six million copies in the United States. It also topped the singles charts in Australia, the Flanders region of Belgium, and Canada. A music video was released on November 19, 2013, featuring the trio singing as people "act out the heartbreaking lyrics." To further promote "Say Something", A Great Big World and Aguilera performed the track at the American Music Awards of 2013.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP] I Say a Little Prayer  "I Say a Little Prayer" is a song written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David for Dionne Warwick, originally peaking at number four on the U.S. "Billboard" Hot 100 pop singles chart in December 1967. On the R&B Singles chart it peaked at number eight.
Who was the composer of Say When? [SEP] Say You Won't Let Go  "Say You Won't Let Go" is a song by English singer and songwriter James Arthur. The song was released as a digital download on 9 September 2016 in the United Kingdom by Columbia Records as the lead single from his second studio album "Back from the Edge" (2016). The single peaked at the top of the UK Singles Chart, a position it maintained for three weeks. Outside the United Kingdom, the single has topped the charts in Australia, New Zealand, Sweden and the Republic of Ireland. It also became his breakthrough hit in the US, peaking at number 11 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. In early March, it had gone double platinum in the UK. In May 2018, it was reported that The Script had launched legal proceedings against Arthur due to alleged copyright infringement in regards to the song.  In response to claims that the song sounds similar to The Script's "The Man Who Can't Be Moved", the song's writers initially decided not to pursue legal action. However, following a claim in May 2018, they were successfully awarded a songwriting credit.
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] The One Alone (1987), verse drama by Iris Murdoch
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] Composed alone Composed with Paul Draper (and others)
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP]  "Alone Together" is a song composed by Arthur Schwartz with lyrics by Howard Dietz. It was introduced in the Broadway musical Flying Colors in 1932 by Jean Sargent. The song soon became a hit, with Leo Reisman and His Orchestra's 1932 recording (vocal by Frank Luther) being the first to reach the charts. It has become a jazz standard. The first jazz musician to record the song was Artie Shaw in 1939.
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP]  Alone Together is a studio album by American composer/arranger/pianist Clare Fischer, recorded in October 1975 and released in 1977 on the German label, MPS, and in the US by Discovery Records in 1980 (catalogue number DS 820). Its 1997 reissue on CD accompanied a volume created by pianist, composer and educator Bill Dobbins, containing transcriptions of four of Alone Together 's tracks and five from Fischer's 1995 solo piano CD, Just Me, and described by saxophonist and longtime Fischer colleague Gary Foster as "among the very best materials published in the field of jazz pedagogy." Of the 1975 recording, Dobbins wrote: "If I had to make a list of the ten most important solo jazz piano recordings of all time, this recording would definitely be on the list."
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP]  "Alone" is a song composed by Billy Steinberg and Tom Kelly, who recorded it under the name i-Ten on their 1983 album Taking a Cold Look. It was later recorded by actress Valerie Stevenson and actor John Stamos on the original soundtrack of the CBS sitcom Dreams in 1984. American rock band Heart covered it on their 1987 album Bad Animals, and this version reached number one in the US and Canada. In 2007 Celine Dion recorded it for her album Taking Chances. In 2010 Alyssa Reid used the music and lyrics for the chorus of her song Alone Again.
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] Alone (i-Ten song)  "Alone" is a song composed by Billy Steinberg and Tom Kelly, who recorded it under the name i-Ten on their 1983 album "Taking a Cold Look".  It was later recorded by actress Valerie Stevenson and actor John Stamos on the original soundtrack of the CBS sitcom "Dreams" in 1984. American rock band Heart covered it on their 1987 album "Bad Animals," and this version reached number one in the US and Canada. In 2007 Celine Dion recorded it for her album "Taking Chances". In 2010 Alyssa Reid used the music and lyrics for the chorus of her song "Alone Again."
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] Alone Together (1932 song)  "Alone Together" is a song composed by Arthur Schwartz with lyrics by Howard Dietz. It was introduced in the Broadway musical "Flying Colors" in 1932 by Jean Sargent.  The song soon became a hit, with Leo Reisman and His Orchestra's 1932 recording (vocal by Frank Luther) being the first to reach the charts. It has become a jazz standard. The first jazz musician to record the song was Artie Shaw in 1939.
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] John Williams  John Towner Williams (born February 8, 1932) is an American composer, conductor and pianist. In a career that has spanned seven decades, he has composed some of the most popular, recognizable and critically acclaimed film scores in cinematic history. Williams has won 25 Grammy Awards, seven British Academy Film Awards, five Academy Awards and four Golden Globe Awards. With 52 Academy Award nominations, he is the second most-nominated individual, after Walt Disney. His compositions are considered the epitome of film music and he is considered among the greatest composers in the history of cinema.  Williams has composed for many critically acclaimed and popular movies, including the "Star Wars" saga, "Jaws", "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", "Superman", "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial", the first two "Home Alone" films, the "Indiana Jones" films, the first two "Jurassic Park" films, "Schindler's List", "Saving Private Ryan", "Catch Me If You Can", "Seven Years In Tibet", and the first three "Harry Potter" films. Williams has also composed numerous classical concertos and other works for orchestral ensembles and solo instruments. He served as the Boston Pops' principal conductor from 1980 to 1993 and is its laureate conductor. He has been associated with director Steven Spielberg since 1974, composing music for all but five of his feature films, and George Lucas, with whom he has worked on both of his main franchises. Other works by Williams include theme music for the 1984 Summer Olympic Games, "NBC Sunday Night Football", "The Mission" theme used by NBC News and Seven News in Australia, the television series "Lost in Space" and "Land of the Giants", and the incidental music for the first season of "Gilligan's Island". Williams announced his intention to retire from film score composing after the release of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny" in 2023 to focus more on composing independent orchestral and symphonic pieces.  In 2005, the American Film Institute selected Williams's score to 1977's "Star Wars" as the greatest film score of all time. The Library of Congress also entered the "Star Wars" soundtrack into the National Recording Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". Williams was inducted into the Hollywood Bowl's Hall of Fame in 2000, and received a Kennedy Center Honor in 2004. His AFI Life Achievement Award in 2016 was the first to be awarded outside of the acting and directing fields. He has composed the score for nine of the top 25 highest-grossing films at the U.S. box office (adjusted for inflation). His work has influenced other composers of film, popular, and contemporary classical music;<ref name="thelegacyofjohnwilliams" /> Norwegian composer Marcus Paus argues that Williams's "satisfying way of embodying dissonance and avant-garde techniques within a larger tonal framework" makes him "one of the great composers of any century".<ref name="Green" />
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] In Christ Alone  "In Christ Alone" is a popular modern Christian song written by Keith Getty and Stuart Townend, both songwriters of Christian hymns and contemporary worship music in the United Kingdom. The song, with a strong Irish melody, is the first hymn they penned together. The music was by Getty and the original lyrics by Townend. It was composed in 2001.  "In Christ Alone" is considered a Christian credal song for belief in Jesus Christ. The theme of the song is the life, death and resurrection of Christ, and that he is God whom even death cannot hold.  The song is commonly known as "In Christ Alone (My Hope Is Found)" and "In Christ Alone (I Stand)" taking verses from the song. It has become very popular and has been the subject of many cover versions and many language translations.  The Getty/Townend song should not be confused with the similarly titled song "In Christ Alone" co-written by Don Koch and Shawn Craig, originally recorded by Michael English on his self-titled debut solo album "Michael English", and many others.
Who was the composer of Alone? [SEP] Home Alone: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack  Home Alone: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack is the soundtrack of the 1990 film of the same name. The score was composed by John Williams and nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Score; the film's signature tune "Somewhere in My Memory" was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Grammy Award for Best Song Written for Visual Media.  "Somewhere in My Memory" was written to "run alongside the film" by Williams. It can be heard in numerous sections of the film, either in full length or fragments, forming the backbone for the film's soundtrack. "Somewhere in My Memory" is performed in many Christmas concerts in schools or professional orchestras and choirs alike across the globe. A version in Spanish was recorded in Spain for the ending credits of "". This version was performed by singer Ana Belén and is entitled "Sombras de otros tiempos" ("Shadows of Other/Former Times"). Making the Plane is inspired by Trepak by Tchaikovsky.
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP]  John Akar (1927–1975) • Doris Akers (1923–1995) • Toshiko Akiyoshi (born 1929) • Necil Kazım Akses (1908–1999) • Yasushi Akutagawa (1925–1989) • Jehan Alain (1911–1940) • Alamanda de Castelnau (fl. second half of 12th century) • Pierre Alamire (Peter van den Hove) (c. 1470 – 1536) • Johannes Alanus (fl. late 14th or early 15th century) • Jean-Delphin Alard (1815–1888) • Isaac Albéniz (1860–1909) • Mateo Pérez de Albéniz (1755–1831) • Pedro Albéniz y Basanta (1795–1855) • Pedro Alberch Vila (1517–1582) • Petur Alberg (1885–1940) • Eleanor Alberga (born 1949) • Pirro Albergati (1663–1735) • (1722–1756) • Eugen d'Albert (1864–1932) •
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP]  (1860–1928) • Georges Auric (1899–1983) • Dorothea Austin (1921–2011) • Elizabeth R. Austin (born 1938) • Frederic Austin (1872–1952) • Larry Austin (1930–2018) • Charles Avison (1709–1770) • Giuseppe Avitrano (c. 1670 – 1756) • Pedro António Avondano (1714–1782) • Ana-Maria Avram (1961–2017) • Slavko Avsenik (1929–2015) • Aaron Avshalomov (1894–1965) • Jacob Avshalomov (1919–2013) • Daniel Ayala Pérez (1906–1975) • Héctor Ayala (1914–1990) • Nat Ayer (1887–1952) • Richard Ayleward (1626–1669) • Florence Aylward (1862–1950) • Frederick Ayres (1876–1926) • Artemi Ayvazyan (1902–1975) • Azalais de Porcairagues (fl. mid-12th century) • Svitlana Azarova (born 1976) • Filippo Azzaiolo (fl. 1557–1569)
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP]  • Henry Leslie (1822–1896) • Franciszek Lessel (1780–1838) • Oscar Levant (1906–1972) • Richard Leveridge (1670–1758) • Richard Michael Levey (1811–1899) • Michaël Lévinas (born 1949) • Marvin David Levy (1932–2015) • David Lewin (1933–2003) • Frank Lewin (1925–2008) • Andrew Lewis (born 1963) • Jeffrey Lewis (born 1942) • Ignace Leybach (1817–1891) • Georg Dietrich Leyding (1664–1710) • Ulrich Leyendecker (1946–2018) • Jean Lhéritier (L'Heritier; Lirithier) (c. 1480–after 1551) • Fran Lhotka (1883–1962) • Reginaldus Libert (fl. c. 1425–1435) • Heinrich Lichner (1829–1898) • Johann Georg Lickl (1769–1843) • Cristiano Giuseppe Lidarti (1730–1795) • Jorge Liderman (1957–2008) • Ingvar Lidholm
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP]  their melodic charm. known for Adriana Lecouvreur (1902) ; Luigi Dallapiccola (1904–1975), composer known for his lyrical twelve-tone compositions ; Lorenzo Ferrero (born 1951), composer. Among his major works are the operas Salvatore Giuliano (1986), La Conquista (2005), and Risorgimento! (2011) ; Umberto Giordano (1867–1948), opera composer in the verismo, or "realist", style, known for his opera Andrea Chénier (1896) ; Piero Piccioni (1921–2004), lawyer, pianist, organist, conductor, composer, he was also the prolific author of more than 300 film soundtracks. ; Pietro Mascagni (1863–1945), opera composer, famous for Cavalleria rusticana, one of the classic verismo operas ; Ennio Morricone (1928–2020), composer and conductor. He is considered one of the most prolific and influential film composers
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP]  • Marcial del Adalid y Gurréa (1826–1881), composer • Dionisio Aguado y García (1784–1849), composer and guitarist • Sebastian Aguilera de Heredia (1561–1627), composer and organist • Isaac Albéniz (1860–1909), late Romantic composer and pianist, wrote nationalist works such as Iberia • Mateo Albéniz (1755–1831), composer • Manuel Alejandro (born 1969), contemporary song composer • Francisco Alonso (1887–1948), composer of zarzuela • Vicente Amigo (born 1967), composer • Juan de Anchieta (1462–1523), composer • Juan Crisóstomo Arriaga (1806–1826), Romantic composer, nicknamed the "Spanish Mozart" before dying at age 19 • Emilio Arrieta (1821–1894), composer • Salvador Bacarisse (1898–1963), composer • Leonardo Balada (born
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP] List of Austrian composers  This is an alphabetical list of Austrian composers.  The portraits at right are seven of the most-prominent Austrian composers, as agreed by three published reviews.
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP] Composer  A composer is a person who writes music. The term is especially used to indicate composers of Western classical music,<ref name="Collins"/> or those who are composers by occupation.<ref name="NOAD"/> Many composers are, or were, also skilled performers of music.
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP] Richard Wagner  Wilhelm Richard Wagner ( ; ; 22 May 181313 February 1883) was a German composer, theatre director, polemicist, and conductor who is chiefly known for his operas (or, as some of his mature works were later known, "music dramas"). Unlike most opera composers, Wagner wrote both the libretto and the music for each of his stage works. Initially establishing his reputation as a composer of works in the romantic vein of Carl Maria von Weber and Giacomo Meyerbeer, Wagner revolutionised opera through his concept of the "Gesamtkunstwerk" ("total work of art"), by which he sought to synthesise the poetic, visual, musical and dramatic arts, with music subsidiary to drama. He described this vision in a series of essays published between 1849 and 1852. Wagner realised these ideas most fully in the first half of the four-opera cycle "Der Ring des Nibelungen" ("The Ring of the Nibelung").  His compositions, particularly those of his later period, are notable for their complex textures, rich harmonies and orchestration, and the elaborate use of leitmotifs—musical phrases associated with individual characters, places, ideas, or plot elements. His advances in musical language, such as extreme chromaticism and quickly shifting tonal centres, greatly influenced the development of classical music. His "Tristan und Isolde" is sometimes described as marking the start of modern music.  Wagner had his own opera house built, the Bayreuth Festspielhaus, which embodied many novel design features. The "Ring" and "Parsifal" were premiered here and his most important stage works continue to be performed at the annual Bayreuth Festival, run by his descendants. His thoughts on the relative contributions of music and drama in opera were to change again, and he reintroduced some traditional forms into his last few stage works, including "Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg" ("The Mastersingers of Nuremberg").  Until his final years, Wagner's life was characterised by political exile, turbulent love affairs, poverty and repeated flight from his creditors. His controversial writings on music, drama and politics have attracted extensive comment – particularly, since the late 20th century, where they express antisemitic sentiments. The effect of his ideas can be traced in many of the arts throughout the 20th century; his influence spread beyond composition into conducting, philosophy, literature, the visual arts and theatre.
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP] John Williams  John Towner Williams (born February 8, 1932) is an American composer, conductor and pianist. In a career that has spanned seven decades, he has composed some of the most popular, recognizable and critically acclaimed film scores in cinematic history. Williams has won 25 Grammy Awards, seven British Academy Film Awards, five Academy Awards and four Golden Globe Awards. With 52 Academy Award nominations, he is the second most-nominated individual, after Walt Disney. His compositions are considered the epitome of film music and he is considered among the greatest composers in the history of cinema.  Williams has composed for many critically acclaimed and popular movies, including the "Star Wars" saga, "Jaws", "Close Encounters of the Third Kind", "Superman", "E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial", the first two "Home Alone" films, the "Indiana Jones" films, the first two "Jurassic Park" films, "Schindler's List", "Saving Private Ryan", "Catch Me If You Can", "Seven Years In Tibet", and the first three "Harry Potter" films. Williams has also composed numerous classical concertos and other works for orchestral ensembles and solo instruments. He served as the Boston Pops' principal conductor from 1980 to 1993 and is its laureate conductor. He has been associated with director Steven Spielberg since 1974, composing music for all but five of his feature films, and George Lucas, with whom he has worked on both of his main franchises. Other works by Williams include theme music for the 1984 Summer Olympic Games, "NBC Sunday Night Football", "The Mission" theme used by NBC News and Seven News in Australia, the television series "Lost in Space" and "Land of the Giants", and the incidental music for the first season of "Gilligan's Island". Williams announced his intention to retire from film score composing after the release of "Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny" in 2023 to focus more on composing independent orchestral and symphonic pieces.  In 2005, the American Film Institute selected Williams's score to 1977's "Star Wars" as the greatest film score of all time. The Library of Congress also entered the "Star Wars" soundtrack into the National Recording Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant". Williams was inducted into the Hollywood Bowl's Hall of Fame in 2000, and received a Kennedy Center Honor in 2004. His AFI Life Achievement Award in 2016 was the first to be awarded outside of the acting and directing fields. He has composed the score for nine of the top 25 highest-grossing films at the U.S. box office (adjusted for inflation). His work has influenced other composers of film, popular, and contemporary classical music;<ref name="thelegacyofjohnwilliams" /> Norwegian composer Marcus Paus argues that Williams's "satisfying way of embodying dissonance and avant-garde techniques within a larger tonal framework" makes him "one of the great composers of any century".<ref name="Green" />
Who was the composer of Famous? [SEP] Maurice Ravel  Joseph Maurice Ravel (7 March 1875 – 28 December 1937) was a French composer, pianist and conductor. He is often associated with Impressionism along with his elder contemporary Claude Debussy, although both composers rejected the term. In the 1920s and 1930s Ravel was internationally regarded as France's greatest living composer.  Born to a music-loving family, Ravel attended France's premier music college, the Paris Conservatoire; he was not well regarded by its conservative establishment, whose biased treatment of him caused a scandal. After leaving the conservatoire, Ravel found his own way as a composer, developing a style of great clarity and incorporating elements of modernism, baroque, neoclassicism and, in his later works, jazz. He liked to experiment with musical form, as in his best-known work, "Boléro" (1928), in which repetition takes the place of development. Renowned for his abilities in orchestration, Ravel made some orchestral arrangements of other composers' piano music, of which his 1922 version of Mussorgsky's "Pictures at an Exhibition" is the best known.  A slow and painstaking worker, Ravel composed fewer pieces than many of his contemporaries. Among his works to enter the repertoire are pieces for piano, chamber music, two piano concertos, ballet music, two operas and eight song cycles; he wrote no symphonies or church music. Many of his works exist in two versions: first, a piano score and later an orchestration. Some of his piano music, such as "Gaspard de la nuit" (1908), is exceptionally difficult to play, and his complex orchestral works such as "Daphnis et Chloé" (1912) require skilful balance in performance.  Ravel was among the first composers to recognise the potential of recording to bring their music to a wider public. From the 1920s, despite limited technique as a pianist or conductor, he took part in recordings of several of his works; others were made under his supervision.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] "La villa dei delitti" by Gabriele Bazzi Berneri ; "Tell Me Now" by Generationals ; "Union" by Deptford Goth ; "Piano Piece in A Major" by Mark Gordon ; "Pace, Pace, Mio Dio (From La forza del destino)" by Emilie De Voght ; "I'll Pretend" by Glen Morris ; "Ever Night Lulu" by Johnny Appleseed ; "2.3.5.41 (feat. William Grundler)" by Nima Fakhrara & Free the Robots ; Charles Gounod's "Ave Maria" (which he arranged from Johann Sebastian Bach's 1st keyboard Prelude in C major from the Well-Tempered Clavier.) The musical score for The Signal was written by composer and experimental musical instrument designer Nima Fakhrara. Fakhrara, who has a background as a dulcimer player and student of Persian classical music, approached the production seeking to contribute, having
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP]  in Moscow, Leningrad, or Kiev until 1942. His quick release, having only served eight months of his eight-year sentence, was possible because he had been imprisoned not on political charges but on an overblown accusation of "hooliganism" brought by Mosolov's enemies in the Composers' Union. When World War II broke out, Mosolov composed Signal, an opera which dealt with the war. However, the compositions of Mosolov's later life were so uncharacteristic of his earlier style that one scholar noted that it was "impossible to discern the former avant-gardist in the works written from the late thirties onward". Mosolov lived in Moscow and continued to compose until his death in 1973.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP]  Ensemble Signal specializes in the work of minimalist and post-minimalist composers like David Lang, Michael Gordon, Julia Wolfe, Steve Reich, and Phillip Glass. Ensemble Signal's recording of Shelter was finalist for a Grammy. Since its debut in 2008, the ensemble has performed over 300 concerts, has premiered 20 works, and produced ten recordings.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP]  "Signal" is a song written by Ma-saya, Joker, Joey Carbone, Lisa Huang and Akira for the second single and second studio album of the Japanese boy band, KAT-TUN. It was released on July 19, 2006 in Japan, and became the group's second consecutive number one single on the Oricon daily and weekly singles charts.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP]  create more conventional electronic music compositions. Their earliest tracks in this vein were "Pleasure and Crime" and "Lovely Trees" which were released together as 12″ maxi single on the Disco Smash label. Their follow-up single was "Girls of Vlaanderen", a nod to Meurisse's wife who is of Flemish origin. Initial success of these early singles was followed by the release of the album Pro Patria in 1989. In 1988 Meurisse became a professional musician and invested in a recording studio located on 22 rue du Fort in Comines. It was here that Meurisse composed the New Beat track "Le Dormeur" for the techno-oriented side project, Pleasure Game, as well as SA42 12″
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] Signal (Twice song)  "Signal" (stylized in all caps) is a song recorded by South Korean girl group Twice. The song was released on May 15, 2017, by JYP Entertainment and distributed by KT Music, as the lead single from their fourth extended play of the same name.  The Japanese version of "Signal", along with its accompanying short version of the music video, was released on June 14, 2017, as a promotional single for their first Japanese compilation album, "#Twice".  The song received its first awards, Song of the Year (grand prize) and Best Dance Performance for a female group, at the 2017 Mnet Asian Music Awards.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] Signal (South Korean TV series)  Signal () is a 2016 South Korean fantasy police procedural television series starring Lee Je-hoon, Kim Hye-soo, and Cho Jin-woong. Based on the 2000 film "Frequency" in premise and inspired by real-life criminal incidents in Korea, including the Hwaseong serial murders, the series aired on tvN from January 22 to March 12, 2016 on Fridays and Saturdays at 20:30 KST for 16 episodes.  The series received widespread acclaim from audience and critics alike for its story and performances. It is also one of the highest-rated Korean dramas in cable television history with a peak audience viewership of 12.544%.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] Ensemble Signal  Ensemble Signal is a contemporary classical music ensemble founded in 2008 and based in New York City. It is led by Brad Lubman and performs a variety of chamber, electro-acoustic, and large scale ensemble works.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] Symphony No. 31 (Haydn)  Joseph Haydn's Symphony No. 31 in D major, Hob. I/31, was composed in 1765 for Haydn's patron Nikolaus Esterházy. It is nicknamed the "Hornsignal Symphony", because it gives a prominent role to an unusually large horn section of four players. Probably because of its prominent obbligato writing for the horns, in Paris, the publisher Sieber published this symphony as a "symphonie concertante" around 1785.
Who was the composer of Signal? [SEP] The Signal (2014 film)  The Signal is a 2014 American science fiction thriller film directed by William Eubank, and written by William and Carlyle Eubank and David Frigerio. The film stars Brenton Thwaites and Laurence Fishburne. It premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival, and was theatrically released in the United States on June 13, 2014.<ref name="release" />
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a 1929 song by the Tobias brothers: Charles Tobias, Harry Tobias and Henry Tobias. It was the three brothers' first published song, and their first hit, but one of the few songs where all three collaborated. The song was revived for the 1942 film Strictly in the Groove when it was sung by The Dinning Sisters and played by Ozzie Nelson and Orchestra.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a song by the English rock band the Rolling Stones, released on Rolling Stones Records in May 1978. It was released as the first single one month in advance of their album Some Girls. "Miss You" was written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. It peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and number three on the UK Singles Chart. An extended version, called the "Special Disco Version", was released as the band's first dance remix on a 12-inch single.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  Miss You" ; 2008 – Arash – "Na Morya" (feat. Anna Semenovich) ; 2009 – Basshunter – "Every Morning" ; 2009 – Aysel Teymurzadeh and Arash – "Always" ; 2009 – Arash – "Kandi" (feat. Lumidee) ; 2010 – Arash – "Broken Angel" (feat. Helena) ; 2010 – Arash – "Dasa Bala" (feat. Timbuktu & Yag) ; 2010 – Basshunter – "Saturday" ; 2010 – Die Antwoord – "Enter the Ninja" ; 2011 – Arash – "Melody" ; 2012 – Fabrizio Faniello – "I Will Fight for You" ; 2013 – Arash – "She Makes Me Go" (feat. Sean Paul) ; 2014 – Margaret – "Wasted"
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Have You Met Miss Jones?" is a popular song that was written for the musical comedy I'd Rather Be Right. The music was written by Richard Rodgers and the lyrics by Lorenz Hart. The song was published in 1937.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a song by English singer-songwriter Gabrielle Aplin. It was released through Aplin's record label Never Fade Records on 9 November 2016, as the lead single from her fifth extended play of the same name. The song was written by Aplin and Liz Horsman, and produced by Mike Spencer and Horsman.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You (Rolling Stones song)  "Miss You" is a song by the English rock band the Rolling Stones, released on Rolling Stones Records in May 1978. It was released as the first single one month in advance of their album "Some Girls". "Miss You" was written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. It peaked at number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and number three on the UK Singles Chart. An extended version, called the "Special Disco Version", was released as the band's first dance remix on a 12-inch single.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] I Miss You (Blink-182 song)  "I Miss You" is a song by American rock band Blink-182, released on February 2, 2004, as the second single from the group's self-titled fifth studio album (2003). Co-written by guitarist Tom DeLonge and bassist Mark Hoppus, they employed a method of writing separately and bringing their two verses together later. The song, produced entirely acoustic, features an acoustic electric bass, a cello, and a brushstroked drum loop. The song was inspired by the Cure song "The Love Cats" and contains references to "The Nightmare Before Christmas" (1993).  The song peaked at number one on the US "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart and peaked at number 42 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Although "All the Small Things" had slightly more radio airplay, "I Miss You" sold more copies, earning gold certification for selling over 500,000 copies. In the United Kingdom, the song was a national top 10 hit on the UK Singles Chart, peaking at number eight.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Missing You (John Waite song)  "Missing You" is a song co-written and recorded by English musician John Waite. It was released in June 1984 as the lead single from his second album, "No Brakes" (1984). It reached number one on "Billboard"s Album Rock Tracks and on the Hot 100 as well as number 9 on the UK Singles Chart. "Missing You" was the only record from 1984 to spend a single week at the top of the Hot 100. The song was nominated for the 1985 Best Pop Vocal Performance Male Grammy Award.  Waite re-recorded the song with country/bluegrass artist Alison Krauss which appeared on her album "", and released it to country music radio in 2007. The re-recording peaked at number 34 on the Hot Country Songs chart. The original recording has been featured in the films, "Selena" (1997) and "Warm Bodies" (2013), the video game "", and the TV series "Miami Vice" (from the episode, "Heart of Darkness", originally aired 28 September 1984), as well as in the comedy sitcom "Rules of Engagement", in a scene at the diner where there is a flashback of Timmy and Russell's best moments together (season 7, episode "A Wee Problem", originally aired on 6 May 2013). It also appears in the film "22 Jump Street" (2014) during the montage where main characters Schmidt and Jenko begin to miss each other after going their separate ways following a fight.  The song is mentioned by Sheila Weller as describing O. J. Simpson's obsession with Nicole Brown Simpson and is the inspiration for the title of her book "Raging Heart".
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You Nights  "Miss You Nights" is a song written by Dave Townsend and made famous worldwide by Cliff Richard. The song has been recorded by numerous other artists, most notably Westlife, who released it as the second track on a double A-side single in 2003. The Westlife single reached number 3 in the UK singles chart.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You Like Crazy  "Miss You Like Crazy" is a song by American singer Natalie Cole, released as a single on March 15, 1989, from her 11th solo studio album, "Good to Be Back" (1989).
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP]  "Living with You" is a song by Welsh musician and composer John Cale. It was released as a digital single on 25 February 2013. It was the third single from Cale's new album Shifty Adventures in Nookie Wood. Music and lyrics was written by Cale himself. As B-side of this single are "Living with You (Organic Mix)" and "Living with You (Laurel Halo remix)". The original studio version of the song "Living with You" featured alongside Cale (vocals, keyboards, percussion, electric viola, electric guitar) also Dustin Boyer (gut guitar) and Michael Jerome Moore (drums, cajón).
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] You Two Stay Here and the Rest Come With Me (1968–9) ; Trip (1969–70) ; Where Are You Now That We Need You Simon Fraser? (1971) ; Beware the Quickly Who (1971) ; Charles Manson AKA Jesus Christ (1972)
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] Mohamed Abdel Wahab (1902–1991) who composed her best hits including "Do not lie", "In the hour when I see you beside me" and "Mata?” ; Kamal El Taweel (1922–2003) who composed "Live with me” ; Baleegh Hamdi (1932–1993) who composed "I am waiting for you". ; Sayed Mekawy (1927–1997) who composed "It makes a big difference". ; Mohammad El Mougi (1923–1995) who composed "Eyes of the heart". ; Mahmood El Sherif (1912–1990) who in 1955 composed for her the brilliant song "Thirsty" on loving the Nile river which was written by Morsi Jameel Aziz. ; Ezz Eddin Hosni (1927–2013) (Nagat's brother) who composed for her "On your wing my bird I will tie my message" which was written by Mohammad Al Bahteeti. ; Composers of other songs: Riad Al Sunbati (1906–1981), Hilmy Bakr (born 1937) as well as Zakariyya Ahmad (1896–1961). Several of the Arabic music composers of the 20th century worked with Nagat El Sahgeera such as;
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP]  The first Composer Alive project was a collaboration between ACM and Beijing based composer Xiaogang Ye in the summer of 2006. Ye composed Datura, which is now published by Schott music, and traveled to Chicago for the World Premiere at the Chicago Cultural Center. ACM's other projects include Sound of Silent Film and Noteplay, an event that allows children to discover the joys of creating and manipulating sound.
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP]  André Previn composed the soundtrack score, which Alan and Marilyn Bergman later adapted and wrote lyrics. The resulting song, "More in Love with You", was recorded by Barbra Streisand for The Movie Album (2003).
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] Living with You  "Living with You" is a song by Welsh musician and composer John Cale. It was released as a digital single on 25 February 2013. It was the third single from Cale's new album "Shifty Adventures in Nookie Wood". Music and lyrics was written by Cale himself. As B-side of this single are "Living with You (Organic Mix)" and "Living with You (Laurel Halo remix)".  The original studio version of the song "Living with You" featured alongside Cale (vocals, keyboards, percussion, electric viola, electric guitar) also Dustin Boyer (gut guitar) and Michael Jerome Moore (drums, cajón).
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] On the Street Where You Live  "On the Street Where You Live" is a song with music by Frederick Loewe and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner from the 1956 Broadway musical "My Fair Lady". It is sung in the musical by the character Freddy Eynsford-Hill, who was portrayed by John Michael King in the original production. In the 1964 film version, it was sung by Bill Shirley, dubbing for actor Jeremy Brett.
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] How Am I Supposed to Live Without You  "How Am I Supposed to Live Without You" is a song written in 1982 by Doug James and Michael Bolton. The ballad has been recorded by many artists around the world, in several languages, most notably Bolton himself, becoming something of a modern pop standard. Instrumental versions of the song have been recorded featuring variously the piano, guitar, saxophone, pan flute, steel drum, and music box.  "How Am I Supposed to Live Without You" was supposed to be recorded by Australian duo Air Supply, but when Arista President Clive Davis asked for permission to change the lyrics of the chorus, Bolton refused, and Davis let go of the song. Subsequently Laura Branigan recorded it as written, and it became the first major hit for the two songwriters. Bolton's own rendition became a worldwide hit in early 1990.
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] Without You (Badfinger song)  "Without You" is a song written by Pete Ham and Tom Evans of British rock group Badfinger, and first released on their 1970 album "No Dice". The power ballad has been recorded by over 180 artists, and versions released as singles by Harry Nilsson (1971), T. G. Sheppard (1983) and Mariah Carey (1994) became international best-sellers. The Nilsson version was included in 2021's "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. Paul McCartney once described the ballad as "the killer song of all time".  In 1972, writers Ham and Evans received the British Academy's Ivor Novello Award for Best Song Musically and Lyrically.
Who was the composer of Living with You? [SEP] John Cage  John Milton Cage Jr. (September 5, 1912 – August 12, 1992) was an American composer and music theorist. A pioneer of indeterminacy in music, electroacoustic music, and non-standard use of musical instruments, Cage was one of the leading figures of the post-war avant-garde. Critics have lauded him as one of the most influential composers of the 20th century. He was also instrumental in the development of modern dance, mostly through his association with choreographer Merce Cunningham, who was also Cage's romantic partner for most of their lives.  Cage's 1952 composition "4′33″" is performed in the absence of deliberate sound; musicians who present the work do nothing aside from being present for the duration specified by the title. The content of the composition is intended to be the sounds of the environment heard by the audience during performance. The work's challenge to assumed definitions about musicianship and musical experience made it a popular and controversial topic both in musicology and the broader aesthetics of art and performance. Cage was also a pioneer of the prepared piano (a piano with its sound altered by objects placed between or on its strings or hammers), for which he wrote numerous dance-related works and a few concert pieces. These include "Sonatas and Interludes" (1946–48).  His teachers included Henry Cowell (1933) and Arnold Schoenberg (1933–35), both known for their radical innovations in music, but Cage's major influences lay in various East and South Asian cultures. Through his studies of Indian philosophy and Zen Buddhism in the late 1940s, Cage came to the idea of aleatoric or chance-controlled music, which he started composing in 1951. The "I Ching", an ancient Chinese classic text decision-making tool, which uses chance operations to suggest answers to questions one may pose, became Cage's standard composition tool for the rest of his life. In a 1957 lecture, "Experimental Music", he described music as "a purposeless play" which is "an affirmation of life – not an attempt to bring order out of chaos nor to suggest improvements in creation, but simply a way of waking up to the very life we're living".
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]  The lyrics for the film songs were written by Anand Bakshi, and the music was composed by Laxmikant–Pyarelal.
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]  The music was composed by M. K. Arjunan with lyrics by Pappanamkodu Lakshmanan.
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]  The company’s founder and Artistic Director Emeritus, Donald Pippin began creating English performance translations of opera libretti in the 1960s, which led to the founding of Pocket Opera. These accessible, highly singable, and often witty settings now include over 70 operas, and form the backbone of Pocket Opera’s productions. They have also been used by other companies, including Washington National Opera, San Francisco Opera Center, San Diego Opera, Juilliard School of Music, Aspen Music Festival, and companies in Canada, The UK, and Australia. Performance scores of Pippin’s translations are archived at Stanford University, and are available for rent through Pocket Opera.
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]  Pocket Money is a 1972 American Western buddy comedy film directed by Stuart Rosenberg, from a screenplay written by Terrence Malick and based on the 1970 novel Jim Kane by J.P.S. Brown. The film stars Paul Newman and Lee Marvin and takes place in 1970s Arizona and northern Mexico. The song "Pocket Money" is composed and performed by Carole King. It was mostly filmed in the small town of Ajo, Arizona. Portions of the film were shot at Southwestern Studios in Carefree, Arizona, a facility originally built by cast member Fred Graham. According to co-star Wayne Rogers, in an episode of Pop Goes the Culture, Newman and Marvin did not get along especially well during production. This was one of three films that Newman, Rogers, and Rosenberg made together; the others being Cool Hand Luke (1967) and WUSA (1970).
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]  John Charles Eaton (March 30, 1935 – December 2, 2015) was an American composer. Born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, Eaton attended Princeton University, where he graduated in 1957. He later lived in Rome (1957–68), returning to Princeton to earn a PhD in 1970. He subsequently held faculty appointments at Indiana University (1970–92) and the University of Chicago (1989–99). Eaton was a prominent composer of microtonal music, and worked with Paul Ketoff and Robert Moog during the 1960s in developing several types of synthesizer. Notably, he was involved in the development, use, and ultimately unsuccessful commercialization of the SynKet. He devised a compositional genre called pocket opera, operas scored for a small cast of vocalists and a chamber group, and composed
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP] Side Pocket  G-Mode owns the intellectual property rights to the "Side Pocket" series, and licenses these games globally.
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP] Hand in My Pocket  "Hand in My Pocket" is a song by Canadian recording artist and songwriter Alanis Morissette from her third studio album, "Jagged Little Pill" (1995). The song was written by Morissette and Glen Ballard and was released as the second single from the album on October 16, 1995, five months after the album release. "Hand in My Pocket" received generally favorable reviews from music critics, who applauded Morissette's songwriting. "Hand in My Pocket" also received substantial success through radio airplay in the US. The song became Morissette's second number-one hit on the US "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart. The song also reached the top 10 in New Zealand and Canada, where it was her first number-one single. An accompanying music video was released for the single, featuring Morissette at a festival, driving her car in black and white form, which also received positive reviews.
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP] Pocket Card Jockey  Pocket Card Jockey is a card-based video game for Nintendo 3DS, iOS, and Android.  It was released for Nintendo 3DS in Japan on July 31, 2013 and in North America, Europe and Australia on May 5, 2016. It was released for iOS and Android in Japan on November 26, 2014,<ref name="SolitiBa mobile release"/> but this version shut down on December 21, 2015.<ref name="SolitiBa mobile closure"/>
Who was the composer of Pocket? [SEP] Corner Pocket  "Corner Pocket" is a 1955 jazz standard. Versions with lyrics are titled "Until I Met You", or "Until I Met You (Corner Pocket)".  It was composed by Freddie Green, with lyrics by Donald E. Wolf.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  Images is a cycle of piano pieces composed by Howard Skempton in 1989. This work and a variations set, The Durham Strike, are the only large-scale piano works by Skempton, although he has been composing piano music since the beginning of his career. The work was commissioned by Channel 4's HTV West for "Images", a six-part television series of documentaries dealing with various aspects of photography. The series was created to mark the 150th anniversary of the invention of photography. The producer, Barrie Gavin, wanted the music to be similar in concept to Erik Satie's Gymnopedies: in the words of the composer,
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  pieces were to be "like a sculpture viewed from different angles in a changing light." The pianist who performed Images for the TV series was Michael Finnissy. Images comprises eight preludes, two "songs" (The Cockfight: a traditional song and Song 2), a set of variations, eight interludes and a postlude (Postlude: The Keel Row). In concert, the order of the pieces is not fixed and is left for the performer to determine. The eight preludes contain the pieces that directly correspond to Gavin's request. Preludes 1&ndash;3, all written on three staves and in 3/8 time, share identical rhythmic and melodic structure of
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  Monika Fink, who has been pursuing the topic of her doctoral thesis Musik nach Bildern (Music after Pictures) for over three decades, writes that she knows of no other composer who has so intensively and consistently dedicated himself to setting pictorial images to music. Under the supervision of Fink a project was initiated at the Department of Music at the University of Innsbruck to develop and maintain a comprehensive website devoted to the subject area “Music after Pictures” (see Musik nach Bildern). Numerous works by Steffens, especially those from recent years, are listed in this database, e.g., musical compositions on pictures by Peter Paul Rubens, Rembrandt van Rijn, and Emil Schumacher.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  1994. Articles and Papers: Introduction to ‘Images of the mind' (1997). Paper given at the 1997 KlangArt International Congress ‘New Music & Technology’ in Osnabrück, Germany. Published in ‘Musik und Neue Technologie 3, Musik im virtuellen Raum’ (edited by Bernd Enders), Universitätsverlag Rasch, Osnabrück (2000). ISBN: 3-934005-64-0. Conceptual models of interaction: towards a perceptual analysis of interactive composition (1997-8) Paper given at the 1997 Sonic Arts Network Conference, University of Birmingham, UK, 10–12 January 1998. Published in the Seamus Journal, USA, Vol. XIV no. 1, Summer 1999. SEAMUS, Sonic Arts Network Perceptual Abstraction and Electroacoustic Composition (1998) Paper given at the 1998 Seamus Conference, Dartmouth College, NH, USA, 16–18 April 1998 (1997–98).
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]  The Photographer is a three-part mixed media performance accompanied by music (also sometimes referred to as a chamber opera) by composer Philip Glass. The libretto is based on the life and homicide trial of 19th-century English photographer Eadweard Muybridge. Commissioned by the Holland Festival, the opera was first performed in 1982 at the Royal Palace in Amsterdam.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Pictures at an Exhibition  Pictures at an Exhibition is a suite of ten piano pieces, plus a recurring, varied Promenade theme, composed by Russian composer Modest Mussorgsky in 1874. The piece is Mussorgsky's most famous piano composition, and it has become a showpiece for virtuoso pianists. It became further widely known through various orchestrations and arrangements produced by other composers and musicians, with Maurice Ravel's 1922 adaptation for full symphony orchestra being the most recorded and performed.
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Images (Reggie Workman album)  Images is a live album by bassist and composer Reggie Workman. It was recorded at the Knitting Factory in New York City in January and July 1989, and was released in 1990 by Music & Arts. On the album, Workman is joined by clarinetist Don Byron, vocalist Jeanne Lee, guitarist Michele Navazio, pianist Marilyn Crispell, and percussionist Gerry Hemingway.  The title of the track "Jus' Ole Mae (Revisited)" refers to the fact that "Jus' Ole Mae" appeared on Workman's previous album, "Synthesis", released in 1986.<ref name="penguin" />
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP] Claude Debussy  (Achille) Claude Debussy (;<!--SEE TALK PAGE
Who was the composer of Images? [SEP]
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP]  Stephen Ackerman Hope (September 15, 1931 – June 8, 2003) was an American music editor.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP]  Source:
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP]  In 2001 his work, The Hope, for brass band, choir, organ and percussion, was given its first performance during the commemoration of the 200th anniversary of the Battle of Copenhagen. The composition was commissioned by the Admiral Danish Fleet in cooperation with the Reformed Church in Copenhagen, where the premiere performance took place on 1 April. The Hope was subsequently recorded and released by the Royal Danish Navy on the album Søværnet Ønsker God Vind (The Royal Danish Navy Wishes Godspeed) in 2005. The Danish organ builders Frobenius commissioned a new work by Magle for their centennial jubilee in 2009.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP]  Christian McLeer, an American composer is a graduate of the Juilliard Conservatory Pre-College, and Manhattan School of Music. At the age of fourteen he received his first major commission for the American Cancer Society for which he wrote and performed Hope in concert. Since then, he has composed a number of works that have been commissioned and recorded including his one-act opera House of Comedy, an avant-garde piece entitled Feedback Parade, the ballet The Grandfather Clocks, and the opera Haibo. His composition Musing is included on acclaimed flutist Sophia Anastasia's CD of the same name and Hope is included on the CD
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP]  Ciaran Hope (born 4 August 1974) is an Irish composer of orchestral, choral, and film music. He is the composer of Hollywood film soundtracks such as Screw Cupid, Truth About Kerry as well as the contemplative soundtrack for The Letters, based on the life of Mother Teresa of Calcutta. He has also worked extensively in contemporary music since graduating from Trinity College Dublin. He has written a violin concerto for Cora Venus Lunny, a clarinet quartet for the Czech Clarinet Quartet, and his vocal works have been performed internationally by choirs such as Pfizerphonics and Ireland's 2016 choir of the year, Voci Nuove.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP] Peter Hope  Peter Hope (born 2 November 1930) is a British composer and arranger. He is particularly noted for his light music compositions, such as the "Ring of Kerry Suite", which won an Ivor Novello award, and for his arrangements, such as "Mexican Hat Dance". He has also written a "Recorder Concerto" and arranged music for the 2003 Spanish royal wedding, as well as Jessye Norman and José Carreras. He is sometimes credited as William Gardner.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP] Ciaran Hope  Ciaran Hope (born 4 August 1974) is an Irish composer of orchestral, choral, and film music. He is the composer of Hollywood film soundtracks such as "Screw Cupid", "Truth About Kerry" as well as the contemplative soundtrack for "The Letters", based on the life of Mother Teresa of Calcutta. He has also worked extensively in contemporary music since graduating from Trinity College Dublin. He has written a violin concerto for Cora Venus Lunny, a clarinet quartet for the Czech Clarinet Quartet, and his vocal works have been performed internationally by choirs such as Pfizerphonics and Ireland's 2016 choir of the year, Voci Nuove.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP] Land of Hope and Glory  "Land of Hope and Glory" is a British patriotic song, with music by Edward Elgar written in 1901 and lyrics by A. C. Benson later added in 1902.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP] Living Hope (song)  "Living Hope" is a song by American contemporary Christian musician Phil Wickham. The song was released as the lead single from the album of the same name on March 30, 2018. It impacted Christian radio on May 11, 2018. The song peaked at No. 10 on the US Hot Christian Songs chart, becoming his third Top 10 single. Wickham co-wrote the song with Brian Johnson, and collaborated with Ed Cash, and Jonathan Smith in the production of the song. The song is played in an E-flat major key, and 143 beats per minute.
Who was the composer of The Hope? [SEP] List of songs written by J-Hope  South Korean musician J-Hope has written 135 songs, including music for his career as a solo musician, band member, and songs for other performers. His debut mixtape "Hope World" (2018) charted in ten countries worldwide, debuting atop the "Billboard" World Albums chart and peaking at number 30 on the "Billboard" 200, the highest peak by a Korean soloist at the time of release.<ref>Compiled "Hope World" album charts:  He serves as one of the primary songwriters for the pop and hip hop boy band BTS, of which he is a member, appearing as a credited writer on every album released by the group since their debut in 2013. On these albums he primarily works with the Big Hit production team, including company founder Bang Si-hyuk, and fellow BTS rappers RM and Suga. The trio later collaborated to release the trap diss track "Ddaeng", produced by Suga and Korean record producer Jang Yi-jeong and inspired by traditional Korean instrumentals. He has also penned music for other musical endeavors by BTS members, co-writing the song "Otsukare" for the duo Sope, comprising himself and Suga. In addition, he composed much of the melody for the 2016 ballad "Awake", performed by bandmate Jin as his first solo song. In January 2020, the Korea Music Copyright Association (KOMCA) promoted J-Hope to a full member of the organization due to the worldwide popularity of the BTS songs "Boy with Luv", "Home", and "Blood Sweat & Tears" which he co-wrote.  J-Hope's work as a writer for musicians outside of BTS has been minimal. In 2012, before his official public debut, he featured on the track "Animal" by former labelmate Jo Kwon and was part of the writing team, which included Swedish EDM producer Avicii. J-Hope also worked with South Korean music pioneer Seo Taiji to adjust portions of the track "Come Back Home", from the album "Seo Taiji and Boys IV" (1995), which was eventually performed by BTS at the Seo Taiji 25th Anniversary concert in August 2017.<ref name="cbh" />
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP]  An original film score CD was released in 1987 produced by Arnold Leibovit, the original soundtrack recording was composed and conducted by Russell Garcia himself. Released by GNP Crescendo. The track listing is as follows:
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] Roye Albrighton – composer, guitars, mixing, vocals ; Barbel Craven - composer ; Klaus Henatsch - composer, keyboards ; Ron Howden - composer, drums, vocals ; Billy Sherwood - bass, engineer, mixing
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP]  A full score was written by Klaus Badelt, with the recognizable theme being the track "I Don't Belong Here", which was later used in the 2008 Discovery Channel Mini series When We Left Earth. In 2002, the film's soundtrack won the World Soundtrack Award for Discovery of the Year.
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP]  John Harry Cacavas (August 13, 1930 – January 28, 2014 ) was an American composer and conductor probably best known for his television scores, such as Kojak, and The Time Machine, for which he was the chief composer. He also composed Kojak's second main title theme for its 5th and final season in 1977-1978.
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP]  The Time Machine is the third solo album by English rock musician Alan Parsons. While the sound of this album is similar to some of the soft, ethereal tracks by the Alan Parsons Project, none of the writing or performance credits in the sleeve notes (of the CD edition - the vinyl edition's credits are significantly different) go to Alan Parsons, except for one short and simple instrumental part on "Temporalia"; his relation to the album is almost exclusively as producer. The album lacks much of the rock edge of the previous albums up to and including On Air.
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] The Time Machine (soundtrack)  The Time Machine is the original motion picture soundtrack of the film of the "same name", both released in 2002. It was composed by Klaus Badelt. A promotional edition contains more cues and alternate versions of some cues.
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] Time Machine (Alicia Keys song)  "Time Machine" is a song by American singer and songwriter Alicia Keys. It was written by Keys, Sebastian Kole and Rob Knox and produced by Keys and Rob Knox, with co-production from Emile Haynie.<ref name="nmw"/> The song was released on November 20, 2019, through RCA Records as the second single from Keys' seventh studio album "Alicia" (2020).<ref name="nmw"/>  As a song with retro-funk sound, the song is a departure from Keys' previous singles. The song received a positive critical reception, with many critics complimenting the new musical direction. A music video directed by Art Johnson and Cole Cook was released on the same day and features a cameo from American rapper Tierra Whack. Remixes by Cedric Gervais, MK and KC Lights were released in February 2020. In the United States, the song peaked on the "Billboard" Dance Club Songs at number 25 in March 2020.<ref name="uscp"/>
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] The Time Machine (1960 film)  The Time Machine (also marketed as H. G. Wells' The Time Machine) is a 1960 American period science fiction film based on the 1895 novella of the same name by H. G. Wells. It was produced and directed by George Pal, and stars Rod Taylor, Yvette Mimieux, and Alan Young. The story is set in Victorian England and follows an inventor who constructs a machine that enables him to travel into the distant future. Once there, he discovers that mankind's descendants have divided into two species, the passive, childlike, and vegetarian Eloi and the underground-dwelling Morlocks, who feed on the Eloi.  The film was originally released on August 17, 1960, and was distributed by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. It received the Academy Award for Best Special Effects for its time-lapse photographic effects, which show the world changing rapidly as the time traveler journeys into the future.
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] The Time Machine (Alan Parsons album)  The Time Machine is the third solo album by English rock musician Alan Parsons.  While the sound of this album is similar to some of the soft, ethereal tracks by the Alan Parsons Project, none of the writing or performance credits in the sleeve notes go to Alan Parsons, except for one short and simple instrumental part on "Temporalia" (the other instrumentals were written by drummer Stuart Elliott and guitarist Ian Bairnson), the Japanese bonus track "Beginnings" which also features his voice, and organ on "No Future in the Past"; his relation to the album is almost exclusively as producer. The album lacks much of the rock edge of the previous albums up to and including "On Air".
Who was the composer of Time Machine? [SEP] The Time Machine (2002 film)  The Time Machine is a 2002 American science fiction film loosely adapted by John Logan from the 1895 novel of the same name by H. G. Wells and the screenplay of the 1960 film of the same name by David Duncan. Arnold Leibovit served as executive producer and Simon Wells, the great-grandson of the original author, served as director. The film stars Guy Pearce, Orlando Jones, Samantha Mumba, Mark Addy, and Jeremy Irons, and includes a cameo by Alan Young, who also appeared in the 1960 film adaptation. The film is set in New York City instead of London, and contains new story elements not present in the original novel nor the 1960 film adaptation, including a romantic backstory, a new scenario about how civilization was destroyed, and several new characters such as an artificially intelligent hologram and a Morlock leader.  The film received mixed reviews and grossed $123 million worldwide. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Makeup (John M. Elliot Jr. and Barbara Lorenz) at the 75th Academy Awards, but lost to "Frida".
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP]  Ludlow Porch (October 11, 1934 – February 11, 2011), born Bobby Crawford Hanson, was an American radio humorist popular in the Southern United States. He was the author of many humor books, including Fat White Guys Cookbook and Who Cares about Apathy. His stepbrother was Lewis Grizzard.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP]  Porches (formerly stylized as PORCHES.) is an American synth-pop project of New York-based musician Aaron Maine, formed in Pleasantville, New York in 2010.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP]  Beth Porch (born 13 November 1994 in Dawlish, Devon, England) is an English pop singer, who rose to fame after appearing on the fourteenth series of Britain's Got Talent. She performed an original song for her audition, "You Taught Me What Love Is", which was subsequently released as a single to raise money for the NHS during the COVID-19 pandemic. Porch is also a children's nurse at Great Ormond Street Hospital. Her performance of "You Taught Me What Love Is" on Britain's Got Talent was filmed in January but aired during the COVID-19 pandemic, and Porch revealed that she had contracted the disease herself. Her paternal grandfather was doctor and antarctic explorer Antony G Davies, the namesake of Davies Top.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP]  Maine has also released music under the names Aaron Maine, Aaron Maine and the Reilly Brothers, Ronald Paris, and Ronnie Mystery. The band released its second studio album, Pool, on February 5, 2016, to critical acclaim. The band released its third studio album, The House, on January 19, 2018. The band's fourth album, Ricky Music, was released on March 13, 2020.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP]  Porchlight Music Theatre is a professional theatre company in Chicago, Illinois that has won numerous Joseph Jefferson Awards in its 25-year history. The company has come to embody the slogan "american musicals. chicago style."
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP] Randy Sparks  Randy Sparks (born July 29, 1933, Leavenworth, Kansas) is an American musician, singer-songwriter and founder of The New Christy Minstrels and The Back Porch Majority.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP] Ten (Pearl Jam album)  Ten is the debut studio album by American rock band Pearl Jam, released on August 27, 1991, through Epic Records. Following the dissolution of their previous band Mother Love Bone in 1990, bassist Jeff Ament and guitarist Stone Gossard began rehearsing with new guitarist Mike McCready. The group recorded a five-song instrumental demo tape with Matt Cameron on drums. Copies of the demo were eventually given to drummer Dave Krusen and vocalist Eddie Vedder, both of whom were invited to audition for the band in Seattle. Many of the songs on "Ten" were instrumental jams or reworked Mother Love Bone songs for which Vedder composed new melodies and lyrics.  Despite its reputation as a quintessential grunge album, "Ten" is often noted for displaying a stronger classic rock influence than other contemporary grunge releases. In a review for AllMusic, Steve Huey asserts that the band's "intricately arranged guitar textures and expansive harmonic vocabulary... especially recalled Jimi Hendrix and Led Zeppelin" and characterizes the album as having an "anthemic" and "warm, rich sound". Huey also praises Vedder for the "highly distinctive timbre" of his vocals and for the "passionate commitment of his delivery".<ref name="allmusic" />  "Ten" was not an immediate success, but by late 1992 it had reached number two on the "Billboard" 200. The album produced three hit singles: "Alive", "Even Flow", and "Jeremy". "Jeremy" became one of Pearl Jam's best-known songs, and received nominations for Best Rock Song and Best Hard Rock Performance at the 35th Grammy Awards.<ref name=":0" /> The video for "Jeremy" was heavily rotated by MTV, and received four awards at the 1993 MTV Video Music Awards, including Video of the Year and Best Group Video.<ref name=":1" />  Beyond its role in consolidating the mainstream success of grunge rock in the early 1990s, "Ten" is generally considered to have been instrumental in the rise and dominance of alternative rock throughout the decade. The album has since been ranked by several publications as one of the greatest albums of all time. By February 2013, it had sold 13 million copies in the US, becoming the 22nd record to do so in the Nielsen SoundScan era and has been certified 13× Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). "Ten" remains Pearl Jam's most commercially successful album.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP] Harry Partch  Harry Partch (June 24, 1901 – September 3, 1974) was an American composer, music theorist, and creator of unique musical instruments. He composed using scales of unequal intervals in just intonation, and was one of the first 20th-century composers in the West to work systematically with microtonal scales, alongside Lou Harrison. He built custom-made instruments in these tunings on which to play his compositions, and described the method behind his theory and practice in his book "Genesis of a Music" (1947).  Partch composed with scales dividing the octave into 43 unequal tones derived from the natural harmonic series; these scales allowed for more tones of smaller intervals than in standard Western tuning, which uses twelve equal intervals to the octave. To play his music, Partch built many unique instruments, with such names as the Chromelodeon, the Quadrangularis Reversum, and the Zymo-Xyl. Partch described his music as corporeal, and distinguished it from abstract music, which he perceived as the dominant trend in Western music since the time of Bach. His earliest compositions were small-scale pieces to be intoned to instrumental backing; his later works were large-scale, integrated theater productions in which he expected each of the performers to sing, dance, speak, and play instruments. Ancient Greek theatre and Japanese Noh and kabuki heavily influenced his music theatre.  Encouraged by his mother, Partch learned several instruments at a young age. By fourteen, he was composing, and in particular took to setting dramatic situations. He dropped out of the University of Southern California's School of Music in 1922, dissatisfied with the quality of his teachers. He took to self-study in San Francisco's libraries, where he discovered Hermann von Helmholtz's "Sensations of Tone", which convinced him to devote himself to music based on scales tuned in just intonation. In 1930, he burned all his previous compositions in a rejection of the European concert tradition. Partch frequently moved around the US. Early in his career, he was a transient worker, and sometimes a hobo; later he depended on grants, university appointments, and record sales to support himself. In 1970, supporters created the Harry Partch Foundation to administer Partch's music and instruments.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP] Frank J. Myers  Frank Joseph Myers (born July 3, 1957) is an American country music singer, songwriter, and record producer. He has received multiple awards including a Grammy for "Best Country Song" which he and frequent songwriting partner Gary Baker (formerly of The Shooters) received in 1995 for the song "I Swear". In his career, he has written songs for John Michael Montgomery, Eddie Rabbitt, Crystal Gayle, Lonestar and others. He has also recorded two albums, "Baker & Myers" in 1995 and "Scrapbook" in 2006.
Who was the composer of Porch? [SEP] Viktor Krauss  Viktor Krauss is an American musician who plays acoustic and electric bass. He has released solo albums and has worked as a sideman with many musicians, including his sister, singer and fiddler Alison Krauss.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP]  Shine is the soundtrack to the 2006 Turkish film Küçük kiyamet (“Little Apocalypse“). Kevin Moore wrote the music while he was living in Istanbul, Turkey. The album was funded by fans and released via Kickstarter.com on CD in 2011.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP]  "Shine" received mixed reviews from music critics. E! News Bruna Nessif gave the single a positive review, stating: "When it comes to feel-good music, leave it up to Gwen Stefani and Pharrell to get the job done". A reviewer from Vibe praised it as "the perfect theme song". Abe Dewing, a member of the Cambridge Symphony Orchestra, described it as a "sharp, hip tune" in the Boston Herald. He compared its opening trumpet riff to music by British composer Herbert Chappell, who created the theme for the 1975 television series Paddington. Chappell also composed music for the 1986 concerto "Paddington Bear's First Concert". Dewing praised Stefani and Willams' ability "to compose new music for existing source material intended for children". A reviewer from the website antiMusic described the recording as "even more feel good" than the pair's collaboration on "Spark the Fire". Daniel Sannwald gave it three
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP]  The concerto is significant in the 1996 film Shine, based on the life of pianist David Helfgott.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP]  Shine is a 1996 Australian biographical psychological drama film based on the life of David Helfgott, a pianist who suffered a mental breakdown and spent years in institutions. The film stars Geoffrey Rush, Lynn Redgrave, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Noah Taylor, John Gielgud, Googie Withers, Justin Braine, Sonia Todd, Nicholas Bell, Chris Haywood, and Alex Rafalowicz. The film was directed by Scott Hicks. The screenplay was written by Jan Sardi. Shine had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival. In 1997, Geoffrey Rush was awarded the Academy Award for Best Actor at the 69th Academy Awards for his performance in the lead role.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP]  Nick Urata composed the film's soundtrack. Gwen Stefani and Pharrell Williams were commissioned to write a song for the film's American release, which turned into "Shine".
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (1910 song)  Shine (originally titled That's Why They Call Me Shine) is a popular song with lyrics by Cecil Mack and Tin Pan Alley songwriter Lew Brown and music by Ford Dabney. It was published in 1910 by the Gotham-Attucks Music Publishing Company and used by Aida Overton Walker in "His Honor the Barber", an African-American road show. According to Perry Bradford, himself a songster and publisher, the song was written about an actual man named Shine who was with George Walker when they were badly beaten during the New York City race riot of 1900.  It was later recorded by jazz and jazz influenced artists such as The California Ramblers (their version was very popular in 1924), Louis Armstrong (recorded March 9, 1931 for Okeh Records, catalog No. 41486), Ella Fitzgerald (recorded November 19, 1936 for Decca Records - catalog. No. 1062), Benny Goodman, Harry James, and Frankie Laine (1947 and 1957 - the 1947 version reached No. 9 in the Billboard charts), usually without the explanatory introduction.  Bing Crosby & The Mills Brothers recorded the song on February 29, 1932 with Studio orchestra conducted by Victor Young. It was issued on Brunswick Records 11376-A, a 78 rpm record and it is assessed by Joel Whitburn as reaching the No. 7 position in the charts of the day.  As a member of "The Hoboken Four", Frank Sinatra sang this song in 1935 on Major Bowes Amateur Hour.  Albert Nicholas, clarinet, with "The Big Chief Jazz Band" recorded it in Oslo on August 29, 1955. Released on the 78 rpm record Philips P 53037 H.  Joe Brown and The Bruvvers recorded the song in 1961 and reached the British charts with a peak position of No. 33.  Anne Murray included this song on her 1976 Capitol Records album, "Keeping in Touch".  Ry Cooder recorded the song complete with introduction in 1978 (see below).  Spanish vocal quartet Los Rosillo, recorded a Spanish version, with the original spoken intro, in their debut album in 1988.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (film)  Shine is a 1996 Australian biographical psychological drama film based on the life of David Helfgott, a pianist who suffered a mental breakdown and spent years in institutions.  The film stars Geoffrey Rush, Lynn Redgrave, Armin Mueller-Stahl, Noah Taylor, John Gielgud, Googie Withers, Justin Braine, Sonia Todd, Nicholas Bell, Chris Haywood, and Alex Rafalowicz. The film was directed by Scott Hicks. The screenplay was written by Jan Sardi.  "Shine" had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival. In 1996, Geoffrey Rush was awarded the Academy Award for Best Actor at the 69th Academy Awards for his performance in the lead role.
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (Collective Soul song)  "Shine" is the debut single by American alternative rock band Collective Soul. It served as the lead single for their 1993 debut album "Hints Allegations and Things Left Unsaid". "Shine" would remain the band's most well known song and a hallmark of 1990s alternative rock. It became the number one Album Rock Song of 1994, and won a "Billboard" award for Top Rock Track. The song also reached the top of the "Billboard" Album Rock Tracks chart for eight weeks. The song then went on to peak at number 11 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for one week. VH1 would later rank "Shine" at number 42 on their list of the "100 Greatest Songs of the '90s". In 2012 a rerecorded version recorded by Collective Soul was included as a playable song for the game "Rock Band Blitz". In 2015 the rerecorded version was released on the bonus "Greatest Hits" CD that was included with the Walmart exclusive deluxe edition of "See What You Started by Continuing".
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP] Shine On, Harvest Moon  "Shine On, Harvest Moon" is a popular early-1900s song credited to the married vaudeville team Nora Bayes and Jack Norworth. It was one of a series of moon-related Tin Pan Alley songs of the era. The song was debuted by Bayes and Norworth in the Ziegfeld Follies of 1908 to great acclaim. It became a pop standard, and continues to be performed and recorded in the 21st century.  During the vaudeville era, songs were often sold outright, and the purchaser would be credited as the songwriter. John Kenrick's "Who's Who in Musicals" credits the song's writers as Edward Madden and Gus Edwards. However, David Ewen's "All the Years of American Popular Music" credits Dave Stamper, who contributed songs to 21 editions of the Ziegfeld Follies and was Bayes' pianist from 1903 to 1908. Vaudeville comic Eddie Cantor also credited Stamper in his 1934 book "Ziegfeld - The Great Glorifier".  The earliest commercially successful recordings were made in 1909 by Harry Macdonough and Elise Stevenson (Victor 16259), Ada Jones and Billy Murray (Edison 10134), Frank Stanley and Henry Burr (Indestructable 1075), and Bob Roberts (Columbia 668).
Who was the composer of Shine? [SEP] Shine (Ima Castro song)  "Shine" is a song written by Filipino songwriter Trina Belamide for the 1996 Metro Manila Popular Music Festival (Metropop), where it won second place. It was originally performed by Ima Castro, and was performed by Sweet Plantado in the Metropop live performances .
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]  Nozze istriane (An Istrian wedding) is an opera in three acts by Antonio Smareglia to an Italian libretto by Luigi Illica. It premiered on 28 March 1895 at the Teatro Comunale in Trieste.
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP] Antonio Smareglia: Nozze istriane – Ian Storey (tenor), Katia Lytting (mezzo-soprano), Svetla Vassileva (soprano), Enzo Capuano (baritone), Giorgio Surjan (bass), Alberto Mastromarino (baritone); Teatro Verdi di Trieste Orchestra and Chorus; Tiziano Severini (conductor). Live performance recording from the Teatro Lirico Giuseppe Verdi, December 1999. Label: Bongiovanni BGV 2265 king
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]  his era ; Luigi Nono (1924–1990), leading Italian composer of electronic, aleatory, and serial music ; Goffredo Petrassi (1904–2003), composer of modern classical music, conductor, and teacher ; Giacomo Puccini (1858–1924), composer of operas. His finest operas, La bohème (1896), Tosca (1900), Madama Butterfly (1904), and Turandot (produced posthumously in 1926) ; Ottorino Respighi (1879–1936), composer, known for colourful tone poems The Fountains of Rome (1916) and The Pines of Rome (1924) ; Nino Rota (1911–1979), composer of film scores, notably for the films of Federico Fellini and Luchino Visconti ; John Serry Sr. (1915–2003), Italian-American composer of music for the Free-bass system Accordion including American Rhapsody (1955) and Concerto for Free Bass Accordion (1964)
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]  • Andrea Antico (c. 1480–1538) • Krešimir Baranović (1894–1975) • Blagoje Bersa (1873–1934) • Bruno Bjelinski (1909–1992) • Rudolf Brucci (1917–2002) • Arsen Dedić (1938–2015) • Dubravko Detoni (born 1937) • Jakov Gotovac (1895–1982) • Josip Hatze (1879–1959) • Žiga Hirschler (1894–1941) • Đelo Jusić (1939–2019) • Alfi Kabiljo (born 1935) • Milko Kelemen (1924–2018), contemporary composer • Ivana Kiš (born 1979) • Franjo Krežma (1862–1881) • Igor Kuljerić (1938–2006) • Ivana Lang (Zagreb, 1912 – Zagreb, 1982), composer, pianist and piano teacher. • Vatroslav Lisinski (1819–1854), 19th-century composer and co–founder of "Illyrian Movement" • Ferdo Livadić (1799–1879) • Nada Ludvig-Pečar
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]  • Ferdo Livadić (1799–1879) • Nada Ludvig-Pečar (1929–2008) • Ivan Lukačić (1584–1648), renaissance composer • Ivan Matetić Ronjgov (1880–1960) • Boris Papandopulo (1914–1986), 20th-century composer • Dora Pejačević (1885–1923), late–romantic composer • Dragan Plamenac (1895–1983) • Elena Pucić-Sorkočević (1786–1865) • Vjekoslav Rosenberg-Ružić (1870–1954) • Marko Rothmüller (1908–1993) • Josif Runjanin (1821–1878) • Milan Sachs (1884–1968) • Berislav Šipuš (born 1958) • Antun Sorkočević (1775–1841) • Luka Sorkočević (1734–1789) • Josip Štolcer-Slavenski (1896–1955) • Stjepan Šulek (1906–1991), 20th-century composer • Franz von Suppé (1819–1895) • Ivo Tijardović (1895–1976) • Marko Tomasović (born 1976), 21st-century composer • Marcel Tyberg (1893–1944), composer who lived in Abbazia (formerly in Italy), now called Opatija, Croatia • Albe Vidaković (1914–1964) • Ivan Zajc (1832–1914)
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP] Antonio Smareglia  Antonio Smareglia (5 May 1854 – 15 April 1929) was an Italian opera composer.
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP] Luigi Illica  Luigi Illica (9 May 1857 – 16 December 1919) was an Italian librettist who wrote for Giacomo Puccini (usually with Giuseppe Giacosa), Pietro Mascagni, Alfredo Catalani, Umberto Giordano, Baron Alberto Franchetti and other important Italian composers. His most famous opera libretti are those for "La Bohème", "Tosca", "Madama Butterfly" and "Andrea Chénier". Illica was born at Castell'Arquato. His personal life sometimes imitated his libretti. The reason he is always photographed with his head slightly turned is because he lost his right ear in a duel over a woman. When silent films based on Illica's operas were made, his name appeared in large letters on advertisements because distributors could only guarantee that his stories would be used, and not that they would be accompanied by the music of the appropriate composer.  As a playwright of considerable quality, he is today remembered through one of Italy's oldest awards, the Luigi Illica International Prize founded in 1961, which goes to world famous opera singers, opera conductors, directors and authors.  The Award is now awarded every two years and alternates with the Illica Opera Stage International Competition, which offers prizes and debut opportunities to young singers.
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP] Teatro Lirico Giuseppe Verdi  The Teatro Lirico Giuseppe Verdi is an opera house located in Trieste, Italy and named after the composer Giuseppe Verdi. Privately constructed, it was inaugurated as the Teatro Nuovo to replace the smaller 800-seat "Cesareo Regio Teatro di San Pietro" on 21 April 1801 with a performance of Johann Simon Mayr's "Ginevra di Scozia". Initially, the Nuovo had 1,400 seats. In 1821, it became known as the Teatro Grande.  By the end of the 18th century, the need for a new theatre in Trieste became evident. Its main theatre, the Teatro di San Pietro, had become increasingly inadequate and closed in 1800. A proposal to the Austrian Chancery from Giovanni Matteo Tommasini to build a private theatre had existed since 1795 and, in June 1798, a contract was drawn up whereby annual funding would come from the municipality and Tommasini would hold the rights to several boxes and the rights to sell others. Gian Antonio Selva, the architect of the La Fenice in Venice, was engaged, and he designed a classic horseshoe-shaped auditorium. However, his exterior designs were considered to be too plain for the Austrians who then engaged another architect, Matteo Pertsch, to solve the problem, which was accomplished by incorporating elements of Milan's La Scala opera house. The "Nuovo" became a mixture of La Fenice on the inside and La Scala on the exterior.
Who was the composer of Nozze istriane? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP]  Anton Bruckner composed the Overture in G minor, WAB 98 in 1862–63, during his tuition by Otto Kitzler.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP]  in E-flat major, Op. 43), and numerous concert overtures, such as the Sakuntala Overture Op. 13 (a work which cemented his fame after his String Quartet), the Penthesilea Overture Op. 31, the In the Spring Overture Op. 36, the Prometheus Bound Overture Op. 38, the Sappho Overture Op. 44, the In Italy Overture Op. 49, and the Aus Jugendtagen Overture, Op. 53. Other orchestral works include the symphonic poem Zrínyi, Op. 47, and two orchestral scherzos, in E minor, Op. 19, and in A major, Op. 45. Goldmark's nephew Rubin Goldmark (1872–1936), a pupil of Dvořák, was also a composer, who spent his career in New York.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP]  In addition to violin sonatas, edited by Ferdinand David, operas and oratorios, Veracini also wrote violin concertos, sonatas for recorder and basso continuo, and orchestral suites, called Overtures. The six Overtures were performed for Prince Friedrich August in Venice in 1716, as part of Veracini's ultimately successful attempt to secure a position at the Dresden court. They are all either in F major or B-flat major, except for one in G minor. The last one of these, in B-flat major, is remarkable for concluding with a unison minuet. Veracini also wrote a "lively, highly original theory treatise", Il trionfo della pratica musicale, and edited other composers' works, adding "improvements" of his own, such as he did in his Dissertazioni with the Opus 5 Violin Sonatas of Arcangelo Corelli.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP]  In the fall of 1862, when studying with Otto Kitzler in Linz, Bruckner composed his first orchestral compositions: the Four Orchestral Pieces (the March in D minor and the Three Pieces for orchestra). His next orchestral composition was an Overture in G minor, WAB 98. A sketch of the Overture, which was started in November 1862, is found in the Kizler-Studienbuch pp. 287–301. A first version of the Overture was completed on 24 December 1862. On 6 January 1863 Bruckner started with the composition of a new coda, which he finished on 22 January 1863. The original manuscript of the Overture contains both the 1863 version and, on pp. 44–50, its 1862 coda. The manuscript,
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP] G 490: Overture in D major (second movement related to G478) ; G 491: Sinfonia concertante Op. 7 in C major ; G 492: 6 Divertimenti (6 Sextets) Op. 16, G 461&ndash;466 ; G 493: Symphony Op. 21 No. 1 in B-flat major ; G 494: Symphony Op. 21 No. 2 in E-flat major ; G 495: Symphony Op. 21 No. 3 in C major ; G 496: Symphony Op. 21 No. 4 in D major ; G 497: Symphony Op. 21 No. 5 in B-flat major ; G 498: Symphony Op. 21 No. 6 in A major ; G 499: Sinfonia concertante in G major (= G470) ; G 500: Symphony in D major ; G 501: Serenade
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP] Overture in G major (Cherubini)  The Overture in G major by Luigi Cherubini (1760-1842) is an orchestral work written for concert use in early 1815. It is unusual among Cherubini's overtures in that his other, better known overtures (such as those to "Anacreon", "Médée", "Les deux journées" and "Ali Baba"), were intended to introduce stage works. Although born in Italy Cherubini had been living in France since 1784, and had earned world fame through a series of operas composed for the Paris stage. In the first decade of the nineteenth century the vogue for his dramatic works began to wane, and he turned increasingly to sacred music.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP] William Tell Overture  The "William Tell" Overture is the overture to the opera "William Tell" (original French title "Guillaume Tell"), whose music was composed by Gioachino Rossini. "William Tell" premiered in 1829 and was the last of Rossini's 39 operas, after which he went into semi-retirement (he continued to compose cantatas, sacred music and secular vocal music). The overture is in four parts, each following without pause.  There has been repeated use (and sometimes parody) of parts of this overture in both classical music and popular media. It was the theme music for "The Lone Ranger" in radio, television and film, and has become widely associated with horseback riding since then. Two different parts were also used as theme music for the British television series "The Adventures of William Tell", the fourth part (popularly identified in the US with "The Lone Ranger") in the UK, and the third part, rearranged as a stirring march, in the US.  Franz Liszt prepared a piano transcription of the overture in 1838 (S.552) which became a staple of his concert repertoire. There are also transcriptions by other composers, including versions by Louis Gottschalk for two and four pianos and a duet for piano and violin.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP] Symphony No. 32 (Mozart)  The Symphony No. 32 in G major, K. 318, was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1779, after his return from Paris.
Who was the composer of Overture in G major? [SEP] Johann Friedrich Fasch  Johann Friedrich Fasch (15 April 1688 – 5 December 1758) was a German violinist and composer. Much of his music is in the Baroque-Classical transitional style known as galant.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Irving Caesar Composer ; Anne Caldwell Composer ; Page Cavanaugh Vocals ; Doris Day Primary Artist, Vocals ; Al Dubin Composer ; George Gershwin Composer ; Ira Gershwin Composer ; Lorenz Hart Composer ; Roger Wolfe Kahn Composer ; Ken Lane Vocals ; Joseph Meyer Composer ; Gene Nelson Vocals ; Richard Rodgers Composer ; Axel Stordahl Orchestra Director ; Harry Warren Composer ; Vincent Youmans Composer
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP]  Tea for Two is a 1950 American musical film directed by David Butler. The screenplay by Harry Clork and William Jacobs was inspired by the 1925 stage musical No, No, Nanette, although the plot was changed considerably from the original book by Otto Harbach and Frank Mandel; and the score by Harbach, Irving Caesar, and Vincent Youmans was augmented with songs by other composers.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP]  Eric Harding Thiman (12 September 1900 – 13 February 1975) was an English composer, conductor and organist. The surname is pronounced 'tea-man'. By 1939 he was considered one of the leading non-conformist organists in England.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP]  Tea for Two was a 10" LP album released by Columbia Records on September 4, 1950. It was released under catalog number CL-6149, featuring Doris Day, with Axel Stordahl conducting the orchestra on some pieces, and the Page Cavanaugh Trio as backup musicians on others. It contained songs from the soundtrack of the movie of the same name.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] "Everything Stops for Tea", by Al Hoffman, Al Goodhart and Maurice Sigler; Sung by Jack Buchanan ; "From One Minute to Another", by Al Hoffman, Al Goodhart and Maurice Sigler The film includes the following songs:  A version of "Everything Stops for Tea" was later recorded by blues singer John Baldry on his 1972 album Everything Stops for Tea, produced by Elton John and Rod Stewart. The song was later rewritten (except for the chorus) by chap hop artist Professor Elemental in his 2012 album, Father of Invention.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Tea for Two (song)  "Tea for Two" is a 1924 song composed by Vincent Youmans, with lyrics by Irving Caesar. It was introduced in May 1924 by Phyllis Cleveland and John Barker during the Chicago pre-Broadway run of the musical "No, No, Nanette". Section::::Background. Youmans had written the basic melody idea of "Tea for Two" while he was in the navy during World War I, and he used it later on as an introductory passage for a song called "Who's Who with You?" While in Chicago, Youmans developed the idea into "a song that the hero could sing to the heroine" for the musical "No, No, Nanette". He soon after played his composition for Irving Caesar and insisted he write the lyrics then and there. Caesar quickly jotted down a mock-up lyric, fully intending to revise it later on. Youmans, though, loved the mock-up and convinced Caesar it was just right for the melody.<ref name="Lewens pop billboard" />  It has been proposed, with little supporting evidence, that the phrase 'Tea for Two' was originally shouted by hawkers on the streets of 18th century England who wanted to attract business by lowering the price of a pot of tea from thruppence to tuppence. While this may be the case, 'tea for two' would have been a commonplace order for a couple in 19th century English cafeterias.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Tea in the United Kingdom  Since the 18th century, the United Kingdom has been one of the world's largest tea consumers, with an average annual per capita supply of . Originally an upper-class drink in Europe, tea gradually spread through all classes, eventually becoming a common drink. It is still considered an important part of the British identity and is a prominent feature of British culture and society.  In both the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, tea-drinking blends and preferences vary. Although typically served with milk, it is also common to drink certain varieties black or with lemon. Sugar is a popular addition to any variety. Everyday tea, such as English breakfast tea, served in a mug with milk and sugar is a popular combination. Sandwiches, crumpets, scones, cake, or biscuits often accompany tea, which gave rise to the prominent British custom of dunking a biscuit into tea.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Tahiti Trot  Tahiti Trot () (or Tea for Two), Op. 16, is an arrangement for symphony orchestra by Dmitri Shostakovich of the song "Tea for Two" from the musical "No, No, Nanette" by Vincent Youmans. It was composed in 1927 and resulted from a bet between the composer and the score's dedicatee, Nicolai Malko.   "Tahiti Trot" was premiered on November 25, 1928, and quickly became popular in the Soviet Union. Changing cultural politics that resulted from the Great Break and the end of NEP led to Shostakovich renouncing the work. It subsequently was withdrawn, then considered a lost work until Gennady Rozhdestvensky reconstructed it in the early 1980s from orchestral parts presented to him by Malko's widow; it was first published in 1984.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Tea for Two (film)  Tea for Two is a 1950 American musical romantic comedy film directed by David Butler. The screenplay by Harry Clork was inspired by the 1925 stage musical "No, No, Nanette", although the plot was changed considerably from the original book by Otto Harbach and Frank Mandel; and the score by Harbach, Irving Caesar, and Vincent Youmans was augmented with songs by other composers.
Who was the composer of Tea for One? [SEP] Ming Tea  Ming Tea is a faux retro-mod band consisting of:
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP]  George Salisbury Chase (1909–1972) was an American composer for film and library music. He was born in Brooklyn, New York on October 23, 1909, to George S. and Florence E. (Reynolds) Chase. In 1957, Chase was hired by R.T.F. Music Publishing Corp., a subsidiary of Thomas J. Valentino, Inc., to write background and production film music, and remained working there until his death. Chase composed under the pseudonym of Michael Reynolds for the firm's Major Record library. He was also known under the pseudonym "Franz Mahl". Some of his compositions were used in episodes of the 1955–1956 seasons of Adventures of Superman. Four of them, "Dark of the Moon," "Mystic Night," "Hypertension," and "Vigil," were also tracked into Edward D. Wood Jr.'s "Plan 9 from Outer Space" (1956). He is also credited with composing the music for the 1952–4 television show Mr. and Mrs. North. Chase was a composer of liturgical music as well; the 1940 U.S. Census records his occupation as "musician, church." He was an active member of Brooklyn Council of the Knights of Columbus. Chase died on August 1, 1972, in Huntingdon, New York.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP]  Chasing is a 2021 Indian Tamil language action crime film written and directed by Veerakumar on his directorial debut. The film features Varalaxmi Sarathkumar in the lead role. The film had a theatrical release on 16 April 2021. It was released to negative reviews.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP]  "Chasing" is a song written by Irish singer-songwriter Gemma Hayes and is the first single release from her fifth studio album Bones+Longing.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP]  Robert Bruce Chase (March 22, 1912 &ndash; June 29, 2001) was an American composer and music arranger.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP]  loved the freedom to put together all my talents, from the dramatic writing of theater, to the melodic and rhythmic world of songs, to the esoteric world of contemporary classical music. It just suddenly all came together at that moment.” One assignment led to another. Writing the title music for California Reich, a 1975 documentary for Walter Parkes, led him to score a low-budget exploitation film called The Great Texas Dynamite Chase (1976), which began his long relationship with Michael Pressman, for whom he would score five more pictures through the 1990s. Meanwhile, he started studying film music and sought out the wisdom of Fred
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP] Chasing Cars  "Chasing Cars" is a song by Northern Irish-Scottish alternative rock band Snow Patrol. It was released as the second single from their fourth studio album, "Eyes Open" (2006). It was released on 6 June 2006, in the United States and 24 July 2006, in the United Kingdom. The song gained significant popularity in the US after being featured in the second season finale of the medical drama "Grey's Anatomy", which aired on 15 May 2006.  "Chasing Cars" was one of the songs that revealed the impact of legal downloads on single sales in the UK, selling consistently for years after its release. The song is Snow Patrol's biggest-selling single to date, ending 2006 as that year's 14th best-selling single in the UK.  At the 49th Annual Grammy Awards in 2007, "Chasing Cars" was nominated for Best Rock Song, and at the 2007 Brit Awards it was nominated for Best British Single. As of 2019, the song has spent 111 weeks in the official UK top 75, 166 in the top 100 and had sold over one million copies in the UK by October 2013. It has also sold 3,900,000 copies in the US by January 2015, making it one of the top best-selling rock songs in the digital era.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP] Bruce Chase  Robert Bruce Chase (March 22, 1912 – June 29, 2001) was an American composer and music arranger.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP] Chasing Pavements  "Chasing Pavements" is a song recorded by English singer-songwriter Adele for her debut studio album, "19" (2008). Written by Adele with its producer Eg White, the song was released as the second single from the album on 14 January 2008. Its lyrics describe a woman's quest of finding happiness by trial and error and sheer determination, one of her happiest songs. Adele was inspired to write the song after discovering her boyfriend's infidelity, and the subsequent altercation with him in a pub.  "Chasing Pavements" received critical acclaim, with reviewers praising its lyrics, production and Adele's vocal performance, with many citing it amongst the singer's best songs. Commercially, the song proved to be her record charts debut worldwide. It topped the charts in Norway, and reached the top 10 in eight countries, including the UK, where it debuted at its peak of number two on the UK Singles Chart and is certified double Platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI). The accompanying music video was directed by Mathew Cullen of the production company Motion Theory. At the 51st Annual Grammy Awards, "Chasing Pavements", received three nominations, winning Best Female Pop Vocal Performance, and being nominated for Record of the Year, and Song of the Year.
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP] Chasing Amy  Chasing Amy is a 1997 American romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Kevin Smith and starring Ben Affleck, Joey Lauren Adams, and Jason Lee. The film is about a male comic artist (Affleck) who falls in love with a lesbian woman (Adams), to the displeasure of his best friend (Lee). It is the third film in Smith's View Askewniverse series.  The film was originally inspired by a brief scene from an early film by a friend of Smith's. In Guinevere Turner's "Go Fish", one of the lesbian characters imagines her friends passing judgment on her for "selling out" by sleeping with a man. Smith was dating Adams at the time he was writing the script, which was also partly inspired by her.  The film received mostly positive reviews, praising the humor, performances and Kevin Smith's direction. The film won two awards at the 1998 Independent Spirit Awards (Best Screenplay for Smith and Best Supporting Actor for Lee). Characters from the film would go on to appear in later Askewniverse films "Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back" (2001) and "Jay and Silent Bob Reboot" (2019), direct spin-offs of "Chasing Amy", with Affleck, Lee, Adams and Ewell reprising their roles in cameo appearances; Smith described the characters' roles in "Jay and Silent Bob Reboot" as being an "eight-page sequel" to "Chasing Amy".
Who was the composer of Chasing? [SEP] I'm Always Chasing Rainbows  "I'm Always Chasing Rainbows" is a popular Vaudeville song. The music is credited to Harry Carroll, but the melody is adapted from "Fantaisie-Impromptu" by Frédéric Chopin. The lyrics were written by Joseph McCarthy, and the song was published in 1917. It was introduced in the Broadway show "Oh, Look!" which opened in March 1918. The song was sung in the show by the Dolly Sisters.<ref name="Gardner" /> Judy Garland sang it in the 1941 film "Ziegfeld Girl". It was subsequently sung by Jack Oakie in the 1944 film "The Merry Monahans" and was again featured in the 1945 film "The Dolly Sisters" (1945 in film), where it was sung by John Payne.<ref name="Gardner" /> It was also included for part of the run (and in the cast album) of the 1973 revival of "Irene".  The song is a true popular standard, recorded by many artists over the years.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP]  The String Quartet No. 3 is a composition for string quartet by the composer Karel Husa. It was first performed on October 14, 1968, at the Goodman Theatre, Chicago, by the Fine Arts Quartet, to whose members the work is dedicated. The piece won the 1969 Pulitzer Prize for Music.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP]  George Rochberg's String Quartet No. 3 is an important piece in American contemporary music literature. Written in 1971 and premiered on May 15, 1972, by the Concord String Quartet, the third string quartet was an important move away from serialism for the American composer.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP]  The Third String Quartet by American composer Elliott Carter was completed in 1971. It is dedicated to the Juilliard String Quartet, and it was premiered in 1973. This quartet earned Carter his second Pulitzer Prize in Music in 1973.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP]  String Quartet No. 3 by Walter Piston is a chamber-music work composed in 1947.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP]  String Quartet No. 3 is a 1947 composition by Polish composer Grażyna Bacewicz. The composition won the Polish Ministry of Culture Award in 1955.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP] String Quartet No. 3 (Rochberg)  George Rochberg's String Quartet No. 3 is an important piece in American contemporary music literature. Written in 1971 and premiered on May 15, 1972, by the Concord String Quartet, the third string quartet was an important move away from serialism for the American composer.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP] String Quartet No. 3 (Husa)  The String Quartet No. 3 is a composition for string quartet by the composer Karel Husa. It was first performed on October 14, 1968, at the Goodman Theatre, Chicago, by the Fine Arts Quartet, to whose members the work is dedicated. The piece won the 1969 Pulitzer Prize for Music.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP] String Quartet No. 3 (Babbitt)  String Quartet No. 3 is the third of six chamber-music works in the string quartet medium by the American composer Milton Babbitt.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP] String Quartet No. 3 (Britten)  String Quartet No. 3 in G major, Op. 94, by English composer Benjamin Britten was his last completed major work, and his last completed instrumental work. It was written in OctoberNovember 1975 during his final illness: the first four movements at his home, The Red House, Aldeburgh, and the fifth during his last visit to Venice, at Hotel Danieli. It was dedicated to the musicologist Hans Keller. In December 1975, brothers Colin and David Matthews performed it privately for the composer in a piano duet arrangement. During September 1976, Britten worked on it with the Amadeus Quartet; who premiered it on 19 December 1976 at The Maltings, Snape, two weeks after the composer's death.
Who was the composer of String Quartet No. 3? [SEP] String Quartets (Schoenberg)  The Austrian composer Arnold Schoenberg published four string quartets, distributed over his lifetime: String Quartet No. 1 in D minor, Op. 7 (1905), String Quartet No. 2 in F minor, Op. 10 (1908), String Quartet No. 3, Op. 30 (1927), and the String Quartet No. 4, Op. 37 (1936).  In addition to these, he wrote several other works for string quartet which were not published. The most notable was his early String Quartet in D major (1897). There was also a Presto in C major (c. 1895), a Scherzo in F major (1897), and later a Four-part Mirror Canon in A major (c. 1933). Finally, several string quartets exist in fragmentary form. These include String Quartet in F major (before 1897), String Quartet in D minor (1904), String Quartet in C major (after 1904), String Quartet Movement (1926), String Quartet (1926), String Quartet in C major (after 1927) and String Quartet No. 5 (1949).  Schoenberg also wrote a Concerto for String Quartet and Orchestra in B major (1933): a recomposition of a work by the Baroque composer George Frideric Handel.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP]  That's Right is an album by George Benson, originally released through GRP Records in 1996. That's Right was Benson's first album released on GRP Records after twenty years on Warner Bros. Records and produced by longtime producer, Tommy LiPuma. The cover photograph is by Andy Earl and captures Benson in Burnaby Street, Chelsea, London.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP]  That's Right – You're Wrong is a 1939 American musical film directed by David Butler and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The film stars Kay Kyser and his band, with a cast that included Adolphe Menjou, Lucille Ball, Edward Everett Horton, Roscoe Karns, and Ginny Simms (as herself). It was the first film to feature Kyser and his band, and its success led to their headlining several more pictures over the next five years. The title was a Kyser catchphrase, used on his radio show when a contestant correctly gave a wrong answer to a "right or wrong" question.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP]  a lasting impression in Sweden, where they scored two No. 1 singles. The Honeycombs made many appearances on music television shows such as Top of the Pops, Ready Steady Go! (UK), Shindig! (US), and Beat-Club (Germany). The group also appeared in the 1965 film Pop Gear, miming "Have I the Right?" and "Eyes". In July 1965, British music magazine NME reported that it had been agreed in the London High Court that "Have I The Right?" was the work of Howard and Blaikley. Composer Geoff Goddard agreed to drop allegations that he, not they, had written the song. In August 1965 the group released "That's the Way",
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP]  In July 1965, the British music magazine NME reported that it had been agreed in the London High Court that "Have I the Right?" was the work of Howard and Blaikley. Composer Geoff Goddard agreed to drop allegations that he, and not they, had written the song. Goddard had been Meek's principal songwriter, but the two had fallen out. He claimed that the song was adapted from his earlier song "Give Me The Chance", but was too shy to testify in court.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP]  In the 1960s and 1970s, in collaboration with Ken Howard, Blaikley composed the music and words for many international top 10 hits, including two UK number ones, "Have I the Right?" (The Honeycombs) and "The Legend of Xanadu" (Dave Dee, Dozy, Beaky, Mick & Tich). Among other performers for whom they have written are Petula Clark, Phil Collins, Sacha Distel, Rolf Harris, Frankie Howerd (the theme song for his film Up Pompeii), Engelbert Humperdinck, Horst Jankowski, Eartha Kitt, Little Eva, Marmalade, The Herd, Lulu and Matthews Southern Comfort. Blaikley and Howard were the first British composers to write for Elvis Presley, including the hit "I've Lost You" (1970), which he later performed in the film That's The Way It Is.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP] That's All Right  "That's All Right" is a song written and originally performed by blues singer Arthur Crudup and recorded in 1946. The song was rereleased in early March 1949 under the title "That's All Right, Mama", which was issued as RCA's first rhythm and blues record on its new 45 rpm single format.  "That's All Right" is best known as the debut single recorded and released by Elvis Presley. Presley's version was recorded on July 5, 1954, and released on July 19, 1954, with "Blue Moon of Kentucky" as the B-side. It was ranked number 113 on the 2010 "Rolling Stone" magazine list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time".  Several rock critics also have pointed to Presley's version as a candidate for the first rock and roll record.  In July 2004, exactly 50 years after its first issuing, the song was released as a CD single in several countries, reaching number three in the United Kingdom, number 31 in Australia, number 33 in Ireland, and number 47 in Sweden.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP] Get Up and Boogie (song)  "Get Up and Boogie" is a song by German disco act Silver Convention from their 1976 second album of the same name. The song was written and composed by Sylvester Levay and Stephan Prager, and produced by Prager. The song was released as the lead single from the album "Get Up and Boogie" (also titled "Silver Convention" in some countries) in 1976.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP] That's Right (You're Not from Texas)  "That's Right (You're Not from Texas)" is a song written by Lyle Lovett, Willis Alan Ramsey and Alison Rogers and recorded by Lovett for his 1996 studio album "The Road to Ensenada". It was released as the album's fourth single on February 24, 1997.  Due to its use in a series of advertisements promoting Texas tourism, the phrase has also come to be used independently to describe the quirky and sometimes misunderstood attitudes associated with Texas.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP] That's Right – You're Wrong  That's Right – You're Wrong is a 1939 American musical film directed by David Butler and released by RKO Radio Pictures. The film stars Kay Kyser and his band, with a cast that included Adolphe Menjou, Lucille Ball, Edward Everett Horton, Roscoe Karns, and Ginny Simms (as herself). It was the first film to feature Kyser and his band, and its success led to their headlining several more pictures over the next five years. The title was a Kyser catchphrase, used on his radio show when a contestant correctly gave a wrong answer to a "right or wrong" question.
Who was the composer of That's Right? [SEP] I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair  "I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Outa My Hair" is a song from the musical "South Pacific", sung by Nellie Forbush, the female lead, originally played by Mary Martin in the 1949 Broadway production. Her character, fed up with a man (Emile De Becque) and singing energetically in the shower, claims that she will forget about him. The song was written by Rodgers and Hammerstein in response to Martin's request. She had starred on Broadway for years and Martin suggested that she wash her hair on stage during the performance.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP]   The Symphony No. 33 in C major (Hoboken I/33) is a festive symphony by Joseph Haydn. The precise date of composition is unknown. Haydn scholar H.C. Robbins Landon has dated this work to 1763–65. It has also been suggested that it was written in 1760 or 1761, along with Symphony no. 32.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP]  The Symphony No. 33 in B major, K. 319, was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and dated on 9 July 1779.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP]  In 1946, a copy of the symphony was discovered in the summer palace of Baron Samuel von Brukenthal near the city of Hermannstadt (now Sibiu in Romania). Originally thought to be an original discovery, the symphony briefly acquired the nickname Hermannstädter after it was recorded under that title by the Prague Symphony Orchestra with the Rumanian conductor Constantin Silvestri. Because of the political climate in Eastern Europe following the Second World War, it was some time before musicologists were able to examine the find and realize that the manuscript was a copy of a work that had already been published by Breitkopf & Hartel in 1907.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP]  Le Flem (1881–1984), French composer of 4 symphonies ; Nikolai Myaskovsky (1881–1950), Russian composer of 27 symphonies, as well as 3 sinfoniette for strings. ; Nikolai Roslavets (1881–1944), Russian composer of 1 symphony and 1 chamber symphony ; Karl Weigl (1881–1949), Austrian composer of 6 symphonies ; Marion Bauer (1882–1955), American composer of 1 symphony ; Walter Braunfels (1882–1954), German composer of 1 symphony (Sinfonia brevis op. 69) plus a Sinfonia concertante for violin, viola, 2 horns and strings ; Alf Hurum (1882–1972), Norwegian composer of a Symphony in D minor (1927) ; Zoltán Kodály (1882–1967), Hungarian composer of
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP]  Symphony No. 4, Op. 29, FS 76, also known as "The Inextinguishable" (Det Uudslukkelige), was completed by Danish composer Carl Nielsen in 1916. Composed against the backdrop of the First World War, this symphony is among the most dramatic that Nielsen wrote, featuring a "battle" between two sets of timpani.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP] Symphony No. 33 (Mozart)  The Symphony No. 33 in B major, K. 319, was written by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and dated on 9 July 1779.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP] 4′33″  4′33″ (pronounced "four minutes, thirty-three seconds" or just "four thirty-three") is a three-movement composition by American experimental composer John Cage. It was composed in 1952, for any instrument or combination of instruments, and the score instructs performers not to play their instruments during the entire duration of the piece throughout the three movements. The piece consists of the sounds of the environment that the listeners hear while it is performed, although it is commonly perceived as "four minutes thirty-three seconds of silence". The title of the piece refers to the total length in minutes and seconds of a given performance, "4′33″" being the total length of the first public performance.  Conceived around 1947–48, while the composer was working on "Sonatas and Interludes", It was also a reflection of the influence of Zen Buddhism, which Cage had studied since the late 1940s. In a 1982 interview, and on numerous other occasions, Cage stated that "4′33″" was, in his opinion, his most important work. "The New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians" describes "4′33″" as Cage's "most famous and controversial creation".<ref name="grove"/>
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP] Symphony No. 1 (Mozart)  The Symphony No. 1 in E major, K. 16, is a symphony written in 1764 by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart at the age of eight years. By this time, he was already notable in Europe as a "wunderkind" performer, but had composed little music.  The autograph score (handwritten original) of the symphony is today preserved in the Biblioteka Jagiellońska in Kraków.<ref name="B" />
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP] Symphony No. 41 (Mozart)  Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart completed his Symphony No. 41 in C major, K. 551, on 10 August 1788. The longest and last symphony that he composed, it is regarded by many critics as among the greatest symphonies in classical music. The work is nicknamed the "Jupiter" Symphony, probably coined by the impresario Johann Peter Salomon.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 33? [SEP] List of symphonies in C major  This is a list of symphonies in C major written by notable composers.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]  The Symphony No. 8 in G major, Op. 88, B. 163, is a symphony by Antonín Dvořák, composed in 1889 at Vysoká u Příbramě, Bohemia, on the occasion of his election to the Bohemian Academy of Science, Literature and Arts. Dvořák conducted the premiere in Prague on 2 February 1890. In contrast to other symphonies of both the composer and the period, the music is cheerful and optimistic. It was originally published as Symphony No. 4.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]  The Symphony No. 8 Autumnal Fragments, Op. 81, is the eighth symphony by the Finnish composer Aulis Sallinen. The work was commissioned by the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra and was completed in October 2001. Its world premiere was given by the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra conducted by Paavo Järvi at the Concertgebouw on April 16, 2004.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]  Robert Haas published his edition of the Eighth Symphony in 1939. He based it on the 1890 autograph but included passages from 1887 that had been changed or omitted. The Gesamtausgabe describes it as a "Mischform", or mixed form. Nevertheless, it remains a beloved and, perhaps, the most frequently played and recorded edition of the work. Haas argued that Levi's comments were a crippling blow to Bruckner's artistic confidence, even leading him to "entertain suicidal notions", although Haas had no evidence for this. This led, Haas maintained, to Bruckner's three-year effort to revise the Eighth Symphony and many of his earlier works. This line of thought supports Haas' editorial
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]  Finnish composer Einojuhani Rautavaara wrote his Symphony No. 8, subtitled The Journey, in 1999. The total playing time is approximately 28 minutes.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]  Villa-Lobos composed his Eighth Symphony in Rio de Janeiro in 1950. It was first performed at Carnegie Hall in New York on 14 January 1955 by the Philadelphia Orchestra, conducted by the composer. The European premiere took place shortly afterward, on 15 March 1955 at the Salle Gaveau in Paris. The performers were the Orchestra of the Concert Society of the Paris Conservatory, conducted by the composer. The score is dedicated to the New York Times music critic Olin Downes.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP] Symphony No. 8 (Mahler)  The Symphony No. 8 in E-flat major by Gustav Mahler is one of the largest-scale choral works in the classical concert repertoire. As it requires huge instrumental and vocal forces it is frequently called the "Symphony of a Thousand", although the work is normally presented with far fewer than a thousand performers and the composer did not sanction that name – actually, he disapproved of it.<ref name="Carr206" /> The work was composed in a single inspired burst at his Maiernigg villa in southern Austria in the summer of 1906. The last of Mahler's works that was premiered in his lifetime, the symphony was a critical and popular success when he conducted the Munich Philharmonic in its first performance, in Munich, on 12 September 1910.  The fusion of song and symphony had been a characteristic of Mahler's early works. In his "middle" compositional period after 1901, a change of style led him to produce three purely instrumental symphonies. The Eighth, marking the end of the middle period, returns to a combination of orchestra and voice in a symphonic context. The structure of the work is unconventional: instead of the normal framework of several movements, the piece is in two parts ("1." and "2. Teil"). Part I is based on the Latin text of Veni creator spiritus ("Come, Creator Spirit"), a ninth-century Christian hymn for Pentecost, and Part II is a setting of the words from the closing scene of Goethe's "Faust". The two parts are unified by a common idea, that of redemption through the power of love, a unity conveyed through shared musical themes.  Mahler had been convinced from the start of the work's significance; in renouncing the pessimism that had marked much of his music, he offered the Eighth as an expression of confidence in the eternal human spirit. In the period following the composer's death, performances were comparatively rare. However, from the mid-20th century onwards the symphony has been heard regularly in concert halls all over the world, and has been recorded many times. While recognising its wide popularity, modern critics have divided opinions on the work; Theodor W. Adorno, Robert Simpson, and Jonathan Carr found its optimism unconvincing, and considered it artistically and musically inferior to Mahler's other symphonies. Conversely, it has been compared by Deryck Cooke to Ludwig van Beethoven's Symphony No. 9 as a defining human statement for its century.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP] Symphony No. 8 (Beethoven)  The Symphony No. 8 in F major, Op. 93 is a symphony in four movements composed by Ludwig van Beethoven in 1812. Beethoven fondly referred to it as "my little Symphony in F", distinguishing it from his Sixth Symphony, a longer work also in F.  The Eighth Symphony is generally light-hearted, though not lightweight, and in many places loud, with many accented notes. Various passages in the symphony are heard by some listeners to be musical jokes. As with various other Beethoven works such as the Opus 27 piano sonatas and the later Ninth Symphony, the symphony deviates from Classical tradition in making the last movement the weightiest of the four.
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP] Symphony No. 8 (Mozart)  The Symphony No. 8 in D major, (K. 48), by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart is dated December 13, 1768. It was written in Vienna, at a time when the family were already due to have returned home to Salzburg. In a letter to his friend in Salzburg, Lorenz Hagenauer, Leopold Mozart says of the delay that ""we could not bring our affairs to a conclusion earlier, even though I endeavored strenuously to do so.""
Who was the composer of Symphony No. 8? [SEP] Symphony No. 8 (Schubert)  Franz Schubert's Symphony No. 8 in B minor, D. 759 (sometimes renumbered as Symphony No. 7, in accordance with the revised Deutsch catalogue and the Neue Schubert-Ausgabe), commonly known as the Unfinished Symphony (), is a musical composition that Schubert started in 1822 but left with only two movements—though he lived for another six years. A scherzo, nearly completed in piano score but with only two pages orchestrated, also survives.  It has been theorized by some musicologists, including Brian Newbould, that Schubert may have sketched a finale that instead became the big B minor "entr'acte" from his incidental music to "Rosamunde", but all evidence for this is circumstantial. One possible reason for Schubert's leaving the symphony incomplete is the predominance of the same meter (triple meter). The first movement is in , the second in and the third (an incomplete scherzo) again in . Three consecutive movements in basically the same meter rarely occur in classical symphonies, sonatas, or chamber works.  Schubert's Eighth Symphony is sometimes called the first Romantic symphony due to its emphasis on the lyrical impulse within the dramatic structure of Classical sonata form. Furthermore, its orchestration is not solely tailored for functionality, but specific combinations of instrumental timbre that are prophetic of the later Romantic movement, with astonishing vertical spacing occurring for example at the beginning of the development.  To this day, musicologists still disagree as to why Schubert failed to complete the symphony. Some have speculated that he stopped work in the middle of the scherzo in the fall of 1822 because he associated it with his initial outbreak of syphilis—or that he was distracted by the inspiration for his "Wanderer Fantasy" for solo piano, which occupied his time and energy immediately afterward. It could have been a combination of both factors.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP]  Not to be confused with the mid-1981 lineup of King Crimson  Discipline is an American progressive rock band formed in 1987 by singer-songwriter Matthew Parmenter. Based in Detroit, Michigan the band has released five studio albums, two live albums, a live DVD, and a live concert motion picture. Discipline may be best known for their 1997 release Unfolded Like Staircase.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Arranged by Desmond Child and Jeffrey "C.J." Vanston ; Produced by Desmond Child and Sir Arthur Payson ; Recorded and engineered by Sir Arthur Payson ; Mixed by Brian Malouf; mix assistant: Pat MacDougall ; Mastered by Bob Ludwig
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP]  Discipline is the only solo album recorded by American songwriter and producer Desmond Child. It was released on Elektra in 1991 and features his longer take on "Love on a Rooftop", a song he wrote for Ronnie Spector's album Unfinished Business in 1987, later included in Cher's studio album Heart of Stone. Child's version reached number 40 on the US Billboard Hot 100. Bon Jovi guitarist Richie Sambora appears on the album; he co-wrote two tracks ("Discipline" and "According to the Gospel of Love"). Also notable is an appearance by Bon Jovi's drummer, Tico Torres. Songwriter Burt Bacharach co-wrote the song "Obsession", which peaked at number 19 on the Billboard Adult Contemporary chart.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP]   Discipline was formed in 1987, adopting its name from an influential King Crimson album. The band have released multiple studio albums and appeared at several progressive rock festivals, including Nearfest, RoSfest, ProgScape, the Orion Studios progressive rock showcase, Summers End, Terra incognita, Veruno Prog Festival and six appearances at ProgDay. In addition, the band did a 1993 tour in Norway to support their first studio recording Push & Profit. The tour was organized by students of the Norwegian University of Life Sciences in Ås, Norway near Oslo. The band is best known for its 1997 album Unfolded Like Staircase. The band has remained independent since its inception. In 1995
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP]  "Discipline of Love" is a song by English singer Robert Palmer. It was released as a lead single from his eight studio album, Riptide.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Discipline (Desmond Child album)  Discipline is the only solo album recorded by American songwriter and producer Desmond Child. It was released on Elektra in 1991 and features his longer take on "Love on a Rooftop", a song he wrote for Ronnie Spector's album "Unfinished Business" in 1987, later included in Cher's studio album "Heart of Stone". Child's version reached number 40 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. Bon Jovi guitarist Richie Sambora appears on the album; he co-wrote two tracks ("Discipline" and "According to the Gospel of Love"). Also notable is an appearance by Bon Jovi's drummer, Tico Torres. Songwriter Burt Bacharach co-wrote the song "Obsession", which peaked at number 19 on the "Billboard" Adult Contemporary chart.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Discipline (Janet Jackson album)  Discipline is the tenth studio album by American singer-songwriter Janet Jackson. It was released on February 22, 2008 by Island Records. It is her only album released with the record label after her five-album deal with Virgin Records was fulfilled with the release of "20 Y.O." (2006). Jackson worked with producers such as Darkchild, Ne-Yo, Shea Taylor, Stargate, Johntá Austin, Jermaine Dupri, Tricky Stewart, and The-Dream on the album. Jackson's long-time producers Jimmy Jam and Terry Lewis did not contribute to the project. The album was executive produced by Island Urban president Dupri and Jackson. The album experimented with the electropop, house, and dance-pop genres and also contained R&B and hip hop-oriented tracks.  The album received generally positive reviews, with critics arguing that it was an improvement on Jackson's two previous albums. It debuted at number one on the US "Billboard" 200, becoming her sixth to top the chart, and her first number-one album since "All for You" (2001). However, sales of the album quickly fell, and by June, the album's promotion had officially ended. Jackson started her Rock Witchu Tour—with the support of Live Nation—in early September to positive reviews, but by the end of that month, Jackson parted with her record label due to the album's commercial failure. Four singles were released from the album: the lead single "Feedback" reached number nineteen on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, becoming Jackson's best charting single since 2001's "Someone to Call My Lover",<ref name=blender/> while the following singles–"Rock with U", "Luv" and "Can't B Good"–did not match the success of "Feedback".
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Discipline and Punish  Discipline and Punish: The Birth of the Prison () is a 1975 book by French philosopher Michel Foucault. It is an analysis of the social and theoretical mechanisms behind the changes that occurred in Western penal systems during the modern age based on historical documents from France. Foucault argues that prison did not become the principal form of punishment just because of the humanitarian concerns of reformists. He traces the cultural shifts that led to the predominance of prison via the body and power. Prison is used by the "disciplines" – new technological powers that can also be found, according to Foucault, in places such as schools, hospitals, and military barracks.  In a later work, "Security, Territory, Population", Foucault admitted that he was somewhat overzealous in his argument that disciplinary power conditions society; he amended and developed his earlier ideas.
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Discipline Global Mobile  Discipline Global Mobile (DGM, or Discipline GM) is an independent record label founded in 1992 by Robert Fripp (best known as guitarist and main composer for the band King Crimson) and producer/online content developer David Singleton. DGM has released solo music by Fripp as well as work by various affiliated musicians and bands including King Crimson, The Vicar, the California Guitar Trio and others. The label has offices in Salisbury, England, and Los Angeles, California.  DGM has aimed to be "a model of ethical business in an industry founded on exploitation, oiled by deceit, riven with theft and fueled by greed," according to Fripp. Its policy is that its artists retain all copyrights; consequently, even DGM's corporate logo is owned by its designer.<ref name="Fripp98a"/> The label was an early adopter of the digital download system. DGM's aims have been hailed as "exemplary", and the label has been credited with having expanded "the possibilities of experimental music" and having improved the environment for King Crimson.<ref name="Martin269"/>  The DGM label name is derived from the title of a 1981 King Crimson album ("Discipline") and from the name of Singleton's previous recording business (The Mobile). The label logo also partly reflects the artwork for the "Discipline" album (featuring a new but similar knotwork commissioned from the artist Steve Ball).
Who was the composer of Discipline? [SEP] Discipline (King Crimson album)  Discipline is the eighth studio album by English progressive rock band King Crimson, released on 22 September 1981 by E.G. Records in the United Kingdom and by Warner Bros. Records in the United States.   This album was King Crimson's first following a seven-year hiatus. Only band co-founder and guitarist Robert Fripp and drummer Bill Bruford remained from the previous incarnation. They were joined by two American musicians: guitarist, vocalist and lyricist Adrian Belew and bassist and backing vocalist Tony Levin. The album introduced a new sound for the band, influenced by new wave, post-punk and world music, while retaining an experimental character, helping lay the groundwork for what would eventually be known as post-progressive rock.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]  the 1940s he was music director at NBC Radio. In Hollywood from about 1944, he wrote the music for several films such as Charlie Chan and the Chinese Cat (1944), Scared Stiff (1945) and Yankee Kafir (1947). Also, The Great Flamarion (1945), The Amazing Mr. X (1949), Tarzan's Magic Fountain (1948), Night of the Blood Beast (1958), Attack of the Giant Leeches (1959), Beast from Haunted Cave (1959) and The Atomic Submarine (1959), and television series including Rocky Jones, Space Ranger and My Little Margie. He established a publishing company to collect ASCAP royalties under the name "Alexander Publications."
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]  Edward Elzear "Zez" Confrey (3 April 1895 – 22 November 1971) was an American composer and performer of novelty piano and jazz music. His most noted works were "Kitten on the Keys" and "Dizzy Fingers." Studying at the Chicago Musical College and becoming enthralled by French impressionists played a critical role in how he composed and performed music.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]  song was dropped when Elmira was removed from the story. Another deleted song was for Thomas O'Malley titled "My Way's The Highway", but the filmmakers had Terry Gilkyson compose the eponymous song "Thomas O'Malley Cat". Gilkyson explained "It was the same song, but they orchestrated it twice. They used the simpler one, because they may have thought the other too elaborate or too hot. It was a jazz version with a full orchestra." The instrumental music was composed by George Bruns, who drew from his background with jazz bands in the 1940s and decided to feature the accordion-like musette for French flavor. On Classic Disney: 60
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]  One of the most universally known pieces of Danish music is the Jalousie 'Tango Tzigane' (1925) composed by Jacob Gade. It has been used in countless films, such as the classic Danish sex comedy I Tvillingernes tegn (1975), where it is the centerpiece of a big nude dancing production number set in the 1930s, and Sally Potter's The Man Who Cried (2000), with Johnny Depp playing a gypsy in the 1920s. A special position is occupied by Bent Fabricius-Bjerre (b. 1924), who has written music for Danish films and television series such as  Matador  in his highly individual style. The signature tune Alley Cat quickly won international success in the same class as Gade's tango.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]  Walter Scott Bradley (November 26, 1891 – April 27, 1977) was an American composer, pianist, arranger, and conductor. Bradley is best remembered for scoring the MGM Cartoon Studio theatrical cartoons, including those starring Tom and Jerry, Droopy, Barney Bear, Screwy Squirrel, George and Junior and many one-off cartoons.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP] Tom and Jerry filmography  This is a complete list of the 164 shorts in the "Tom and Jerry" series produced and released between 1940 and 2014. Of these, 162 are theatrical shorts, one is a made-for-TV short, and one is a 2-minute sketch shown as part of a telethon.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP] Glossary of cue sports terms  The following is a glossary of traditional English-language terms used in the three overarching cue sports disciplines: "carom billiards" referring to the various games played on a billiard table without ; "pool", which denotes a host of games played on a table with six pockets; and "snooker", played on a large pocket table, and which has a sport culture unto itself distinct from pool. There are also games such as English billiards that include aspects of multiple disciplines. Section::::Definitions and language. The term "" is sometimes used to refer to all of the cue sports, to a specific class of them, or to specific ones such as English billiards; this article uses the term in its most generic sense unless otherwise noted.  The labels "British" and "UK" as applied to entries in this glossary refer to terms originating in the UK and also used in countries that were fairly recently part of the British Empire and/or are part of the Commonwealth of Nations, as opposed to US (and, often, Canadian) terminology. The terms "American" or "US" as applied here refer generally to North American usage. However, due to the predominance of US-originating terminology in most internationally competitive pool (as opposed to snooker), US terms are also common in the pool context in other countries in which English is at least a minority language, and US (and borrowed French) terms predominate in carom billiards. Similarly, British terms predominate in the world of snooker, English billiards, and blackball, regardless of the players' nationalities.  The term "blackball" is used in this glossary to refer to both blackball and eight-ball pool as played in the UK, as a shorthand. Blackball was chosen because it is less ambiguous ("eight-ball pool" is too easily confused with the international standardized "eight-ball"), and blackball is globally standardized by an International Olympic Committee-recognized governing body, the World Pool-Billiard Association (WPA); meanwhile, its ancestor, eight-ball pool, is largely a folk game, like North American , and to the extent that its rules have been codified, they have been done so by competing authorities with different rulesets. (For the same reason, the glossary's information on eight-ball, nine-ball, and ten-ball draws principally on the stable WPA rules, because there are many competing amateur leagues and even professional tours with divergent rules for these games.)  Foreign-language terms are generally not within the scope of this list, unless they have become an integral part of billiards terminology in English (e.g. ), or they are crucial to meaningful discussion of a game not widely known in the English-speaking world.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP] Top Cat  Top Cat is an American animated sitcom produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions and originally broadcast in prime time on the ABC network. It aired in a weekly evening time slot from September 27, 1961, to April 18, 1962, for a single season of 30 episodes. The show was a ratings failure in prime time, but became successful upon its time on Saturday morning television. The show also became very popular in Latin American countries (especially Mexico), and the United Kingdom.
Who was the composer of Cue Ball Cat? [SEP] Ray Martin (pool player)  Ray Martin (born 1936) is an American professional pool player, nicknamed "Cool Cat". He acquired his nickname when he calmly won a world title in 1971 in California when during the event an earthquake was in progress.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (DRCD 041, Detour Records, 2002)
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] "One More Time"
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP]  One More Time is the second album by the Swedish pop group One More Time and was released in 1994. The album did not continue the international success of the group's first album, and One More Time did not enter the Swedish Albums Chart. Three songs were released as singles; "Song of Fête", "Get Out" and "The Dolphin". The first song was the only one that entered the Swedish Singles Chart, where it peaked at number 36. Dazzle Light was a re-recording of a song included on one of Sound of Music's album (both Peter Grönvall and Nanne Grönvall were members of Sound of Music and One More Time).
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP]  "One More Time" was composed by Na.Zu.Na, Yu-ki Kokubo and Yhanael, with lyrics written by Natsumi Watanabe and Yhanael. Yhanael previously wrote the lyrics for Twice's "Like Ooh-Ahh (Japanese ver.)". The song enlists some 90's electronica vibes that deviate from the EDM with a combination of the blaring synths and loud bass.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP]  Slightly before the release of the film, per the era's customary timing, a novelization of the screenplay was released by Popular Library. The author was Michael Avallone.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (Daft Punk song)  "One More Time" is a song by the French electronic music duo Daft Punk, released as a single from their second studio album, "Discovery" (2001), on 13 November 2000. It is a French house song featuring a stylistically Auto-Tuned vocal performance by Romanthony. The music video forms part of the 2003 anime film, "". "One More Time" reached number one on the French Singles Chart, number two on the UK Singles Chart, and number 61 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100.  "The Village Voice"s Pazz & Jop annual year-end critics' poll named "One More Time" one of the best songs of the year. It was named one of the greatest songs of the decade by "Pitchfork", and "Rolling Stone" named it one of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". "Mixmag" readers voted it the greatest dance record of all time.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] One Last Time (Ariana Grande song)  "One Last Time" is a song recorded by American singer Ariana Grande for her second studio album "My Everything". It was written by David Guetta, Savan Kotecha, Giorgio Tuinfort, Rami Yacoub, and Carl Falk. The song was produced by the latter two, with Tuinfort serving as a co-producer and Ilya serving both as a co-producer and vocal producer. "One Last Time" was first released on the iTunes Store on August 22, 2014, as the second promotional single from the album. On February 10, 2015, the song was sent to contemporary hit radio as the fifth and final single from the album. A French version of the song featuring French singer Kendji Girac, alternatively titled "Attends-moi", was released on February 16, 2015, in France, Belgium and Switzerland. It is also included on the deluxe version of Girac's debut studio album "Kendji" (2015). An Italian version of the song featuring Italian rapper Fedez was released on May 26, 2015, only in Italy.  "One Last Time" is a dance-pop and EDM song. Its instrumentation consists of sampled drums and a synth line. The single reached the top-twenty in twelve countries, including Australia, Canada, France, the United Kingdom and the United States, where it became Grande's sixth top-twenty single on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. The single's peak of number 13 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 ended Grande's streak of consecutive top ten hits from 2014. It was later certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).  The song's accompanying music video was released on February 15, 2015, and was directed by Max Landis. The music video is visually presented as a found footage, similar to Landis' previous work. The video faced controversy due to its similarity to the music video for the Australian band SAFIA's single "You Are the One", with Grande and Landis being accused of intellectual property theft. Grande promoted the song with a live performance on "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon", the 2015 NBA All-Star Game halftime show, and during her first world tour, The Honeymoon Tour (2015).  Grande re-released "One Last Time" as a charity single in June 2017, following the Manchester Arena bombing at her concert the previous month. This resulted in the song reaching a new peak of number 2 on the UK Singles Chart following the One Love Manchester concert, as well as reaching a new peak of number 15 in the Irish Singles Chart and peaked at number one in Scotland. Grande donated all proceeds from the re-release to the We Love Manchester Emergency Fund to aid the victims of the bombing and their families. Overall, the song reached a top-ten peak in Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Lebanon, the Netherlands, Slovakia, the United Kingdom and the top-twenty of Australia, Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Spain and the United States.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (Laura Pausini song)  "One More Time" is a song by Richard Marx which he wrote for Laura Pausini. Later Marx recorded the song for his sixth studio album, "Days in Avalon". Pausini's version was originally released in 1999 for the movie "Message in a Bottle".  The song is available on both Pausini's greatest hits compilations, """" and ""20 - The Greatest Hits"".  The song was performed live during Pausini's third world tour. Live versions were included on Pausini's first DVD. There is a little-known video clip of an acoustic performance of the song included on Pausini's now-discontinued Video Collection.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] ...Baby One More Time (song)  "...Baby One More Time" is the debut single of American singer Britney Spears from her debut studio album of the same title (1999). It was written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami. Released on September 28, 1998, by Jive Records, the song became a worldwide hit, topping the charts in at least 22 countries, including the United Kingdom, where it earned triple-platinum certification from the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and was the country's best-selling single of 1999. The song is one of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.  An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, features Spears as a high school student who starts to sing and dance around the school, while watching her love interest from afar. In 2010, the music video for "...Baby One More Time" was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam!. In 2011, "...Baby One More Time" was voted by "Billboard" to be the best music video of the 1990s. It has been featured on all of her greatest hits and other compilation albums. In 2020, "Rolling Stone" named "...Baby One More Time" as the greatest debut single of all time.<ref name=rsdebut/> In 2021, the song was ranked at number 205 on the list of "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.  Spears has performed "...Baby One More Time" in a number of live appearances and during all of her concert tours. The song was nominated for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards (2000), and has been included in lists by "Blender", "Rolling Stone" and VH1. It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music. Spears has named "...Baby One More Time" as one of her favorite songs from her catalog. It was also the final song to be played on the BBC's music programme "Top of the Pops" in the 1990s. It is also featured in the 2011 dance video game by Ubisoft, "Just Dance 3". In 2018, readers of German teen magazine "Bravo" voted "...Baby One More Time" to be the biggest hit since its first music compilation was released in 1992.
Who was the composer of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (band)  One More Time is a Swedish pop group, formed in 1991. Its members are Peter Grönvall, his wife Nanne Grönvall and Maria Rådsten.<ref name="LarkinHR"/> A fourth member, Thérèse Löf, left the group shortly after the first album was released.  In 1992, they began their international career with the release of the single "Highland",<ref name="LarkinHR" /> which peaked at No. 1 in Belgium, No. 2 in Sweden, and the top 80 in several countries in Europe, such as the Netherlands, UK and Germany. The "Highland" album, on which the single was featured, went gold in South Africa. Their second self-titled album, which followed in 1994, was not as successful as the previous album. But the third album, their first in Swedish, was a successful reentry to the Swedish charts in 1996. They also released an English version of the album. The group toured frequently in Europe for several years, but in 1998, they decided not to tour abroad anymore, since they wanted to be present at home for their, by that time, small kids.  In the summer of 2021, One More Time announced that the band will reunite after a 24-year break.  Nanne Grönvall has had a successful solo career in Sweden since her first solo album was released in 1998.  Peter Grönvall is the son of ABBA's Benny Andersson.<ref name="LarkinHR"/>
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP]  "Big Foot" or "Drifting on a Reed" is a 1948 jazz standard. It was written by Charlie Parker.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP]  Mark Goffeney (May 22, 1969 – March 2, 2021) was an American musician from San Diego, California, known as "Big Toe" because, being born without arms, he played guitar with his feet. He was bassist and vocalist for the 'Big Toe' band and played the principal role on Fox Television's Emmy-nominated commercial 'Feet'.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP]  Big Foot is a 1927 crime novel by Edgar Wallace. This is one of the most significant of his works because of the character Sooper, a detective from Metropolitan Guard. A woman is found dead in a locked room, Big Foot's threats all about... but - apparently - Sooper is more concerned about a singing tramp. The brutal murder of a woman in a lonely beach cottage, huge footprints found nearby, a meandering tramp singing snatches of opera in the night! Superintendent Minter - "Sooper", rattles around the countryside on his noisy motorbike and tries to find a connection. Hampered by amateur detective Gordon Cardew, aided and admired by lawyer Jim Ferraby and the beautiful Elfa Leigh, Sooper finds the case further complicated by another murder. The mysterious `Big Foot' anticipates Minter's every move and only by delving into the past does he solve the case and bring the villain to justice.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP]  "Big Foot" is an episode of the British comedy television series The Goodies. The episode is also known as "Bigfoot", "In Search of Bigfoot", "Arthur C. Clarke" and "In Search of Arthur C. Clarke". This episode was made by LWT for ITV, and was written by The Goodies, with songs and music by Bill Oddie.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP]  "Your Feet's Too Big" is a song composed in 1936 by Fred Fisher with lyrics by Ada Benson. It has been recorded by many artists, notably the Ink Spots and by Fats Waller in 1939. The song became associated with Waller who ad-libbed his own lyrics such as "Your pedal extremities are colossal, to me you look just like a fossil" and his catchphrase, "You know, your pedal extremities really are obnoxious. One never knows, do one?" It was performed in the 1978 revue of Waller tunes, Ain't Misbehavin'. The TV comedy series Harry and the Hendersons used Leon Redbone's version of the song as its theme tune. The film Be Kind Rewind used Fats Waller’s version of the song, although Mos Def recorded his own rendition of the song as recorded by Waller for the film.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP] Finding Bigfoot  Finding Bigfoot was an American television series that aired on Animal Planet. The program followed four researchers and explorers investigating potential evidence of Bigfoot, a cryptid hominid allegedly living in the wildernesses of the United States and Canada. While the Finding Bigfoot team never captured photographic evidence of the creature's existence, the show gained high ratings and was a top earner for Animal Planet. It premiered on May 29, 2011, and the series finale and 100th episode was released on May 27, 2018.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP] Sasquatch (TV series)  Sasquatch is an American true crime documentary television series that premiered on Hulu on April 20, 2021, with a South by Southwest pre-release screen on March 16, 2021. The show begins with investigative journalist David Holthouse's recalling a story he heard in 1993 on a cannabis farm in Mendocino County, part of the Emerald Triangle in Northern California. Holthouse heard someone say that bigfoot has killed three people on a nearby cannabis farm.  Throughout the show Holthouse talks with marijuana growers and law enforcement in Mendocino County, who tell him about possible connections to the Hells Angels biker gang and Spy Rock Road, a lawless marijuana growing area of Mendocino County near Laytonville. These interviews reveal the larger problem of missing persons in the Emerald Triangle.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP] Jerome Brailey  Jerome Eugene "Bigfoot" Brailey (born August 20, 1950) is an American drummer, best known for his work with P-Funk, which included the bands Parliament, Funkadelic, and numerous related projects. Brailey is a member of the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, inducted in 1997 with fifteen other members of Parliament-Funkadelic.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP] Bigfoot and the Muscle Machines  Bigfoot and the Muscle Machines is a 1985 American animated TV mini-series that aired on the animated half-hour TV series "Super Sunday" and "Super Saturday" containing 9 segments that ran for 6 minutes each weekend, along with "Jem", "Robotix", and "Inhumanoids". The segments were combined and turned into a 53-minute feature-length film. The series was based on SST (Super-Sized Trucks) Muscle Machines toy line by Playskool who in turn was owned by Hasbro.  This cartoon and the other "Super Sunday" cartoons were animated by Toei Animation in Japan. The show featured animated versions of vehicles popular in real life competing under the United States Hot Rod Association banner, including Bob Chandler's Bigfoot monster truck, Allen Gaines' Orange Blossom Special two-wheel-drive pulling truck, Kenneth and Paula Geuin's Black Gold four-wheel-drive pulling truck, and Dan Patrick's War Lord pulling funny car.
Who was the composer of Big Foot? [SEP] The Legend of Bigfoot  The Legend of Bigfoot is a 1976 American pseudo-documentary film directed by Harry Winer.
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP]  John Akar (1927–1975) • Doris Akers (1923–1995) • Toshiko Akiyoshi (born 1929) • Necil Kazım Akses (1908–1999) • Yasushi Akutagawa (1925–1989) • Jehan Alain (1911–1940) • Alamanda de Castelnau (fl. second half of 12th century) • Pierre Alamire (Peter van den Hove) (c. 1470 – 1536) • Johannes Alanus (fl. late 14th or early 15th century) • Jean-Delphin Alard (1815–1888) • Isaac Albéniz (1860–1909) • Mateo Pérez de Albéniz (1755–1831) • Pedro Albéniz y Basanta (1795–1855) • Pedro Alberch Vila (1517–1582) • Petur Alberg (1885–1940) • Eleanor Alberga (born 1949) • Pirro Albergati (1663–1735) • (1722–1756) • Eugen d'Albert (1864–1932) •
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP]  1981) • Jean-Claude Amiot (born 1939) • Emanuel Amiran-Pougatchov (1909–1993) • Charles Amirkhanian (born 1945) • Elias Nikolaus Ammerbach (c. 1530 – 1597) • Ammiya (c.1400 BC) • John Amner (1579–1641) • Cataldo Amodei (c. 1650 – c. 1695) • David Amram (born 1930) • Gilbert Amy (born 1936) • Juan de Anchieta (1462–1523) • Solange Ancona (born 1943) • Jean Ancot (1776–1848) • Laura Andel (born 1968) • Gwyneth Van Anden Walker (born 1947) • Avril Anderson (born 1953) • Beth Anderson (born 1950) • Johann Andreas Amon (1763–1825) • Fritz Andersen (1829–1910) • Joachim Andersen (1847–1909) • Julian Anderson
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP]  • Marcial del Adalid y Gurréa (1826–1881), composer • Dionisio Aguado y García (1784–1849), composer and guitarist • Sebastian Aguilera de Heredia (1561–1627), composer and organist • Isaac Albéniz (1860–1909), late Romantic composer and pianist, wrote nationalist works such as Iberia • Mateo Albéniz (1755–1831), composer • Manuel Alejandro (born 1969), contemporary song composer • Francisco Alonso (1887–1948), composer of zarzuela • Vicente Amigo (born 1967), composer • Juan de Anchieta (1462–1523), composer • Juan Crisóstomo Arriaga (1806–1826), Romantic composer, nicknamed the "Spanish Mozart" before dying at age 19 • Emilio Arrieta (1821–1894), composer • Salvador Bacarisse (1898–1963), composer • Leonardo Balada (born
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP]  (1568–1643) • Loyset Compère (c. 1445 – 1518) • Graziella Concas (born 1970) • Edward T. Cone (1917–2004) • Giovanni Battista Conforti (fl. 1550–1570) • Zez Confrey (1895–1971) • Justin Connolly (born 1933) • August Conradi (1821–1873) • Marius Constant (1925–2004) • Paul Constantinescu (1909–1963) • Sylvia Constantinidis (born 1962) • David Conte (born 1955) • Francesco Bartolomeo Conti (1681–1732) • Salvador Contreras (1910–1982) • Charles Crozat Converse (1832–1918) • Frederick Converse (1871–1940) • Girolamo Conversi (fl. 1572–1575) • Will Marion Cook (1869–1944) • Arnold Cooke (1906–2005) • Benjamin Cooke (1734–1793) • Thomas Simpson Cooke (1782–1848) • David Cope (born 1941) • Aaron
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP]  "Sometime" was a pop ballad with lyrics and music composed by Glenn Miller with Chummy MacGregor in 1939 and sung by Ray Eberle according to John Flower. The published musical score, copyrighted on September 27, 1940 lists the composers as Glenn Miller, Chummy MacGregor, and lyricist Mitchell Parish. "Sometime" was performed for radio broadcast and two airchecks have been released of the song. "Sometime" was first performed on March 5, 1939 at the Meadowbrook Ballroom in Cedar Grove, New Jersey. The song was also performed at the Meadowbrook on March 26, April 7, and April 18, 1939, which recording was released as Victor LPM/LSP 2769 and 6101, "Glenn Miller on the Air", and RCA RD/SF 7612. The announcer introduced the song as follows: "Now comes a number that was originated right here in the band. Glenn and Mac the piano player got together and wrote it. Ray Eberle sings it. The title: 'Sometime'." This song is different from the Gus Kahn and Ted Fiorito song of the same name from 1925 and the 1918 Rudolf Friml and Rida Johnson Young song. [Glenn Miller: The Broadcast Archives: Volumes 1 and 2. Avid Entertainment, 2005.]
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP] Something (Beatles song)  "Something" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1969 album "Abbey Road". It was written by George Harrison, the band's lead guitarist. Together with his second contribution to "Abbey Road", "Here Comes the Sun", it is widely viewed by music historians as having marked Harrison's ascendancy as a composer to the level of the Beatles' principal songwriters, John Lennon and Paul McCartney. Two weeks after the album's release, the song was issued on a double A-side single, coupled with "Come Together", making it the first Harrison composition to become a Beatles A-side. The pairing was also the first time in the United Kingdom that the Beatles issued a single containing tracks already available on an album. While the single's commercial performance was lessened by this, it topped the "Billboard" Hot 100 in the United States as well as charts in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and West Germany, and peaked at number 4 in the UK.  The track is generally considered a love song to Pattie Boyd, Harrison's first wife, although Harrison offered alternative sources of inspiration in later interviews. Owing to the difficulty he faced in getting more than two of his compositions onto each Beatles album, Harrison first offered the song to Joe Cocker. As recorded by the Beatles, the track features a guitar solo that several music critics identify among Harrison's finest playing. The song also drew praise from the other Beatles and their producer, George Martin, with Lennon stating that it was the best song on "Abbey Road". The promotional film for the single combined footage of each of the Beatles with his respective wife, reflecting the estrangement in the band during the months preceding their break-up in April 1970. Harrison subsequently performed the song at his Concert for Bangladesh shows in 1971 and throughout the two tours he made as a solo artist.  "Something" received the Ivor Novello Award for the "Best Song Musically and Lyrically" of 1969. By the late 1970s, it had been covered by over 150 artists, making it the second-most covered Beatles composition after "Yesterday". Shirley Bassey had a top-five UK hit with her 1970 recording, and Frank Sinatra regularly performed the song. Other artists who have covered it include Elvis Presley, Ray Charles, Booker T. & the M.G.'s, James Brown, Smokey Robinson and Johnny Rodriguez. In 1999, Broadcast Music Incorporated named "Something" as the 17th-most performed song of the twentieth century, with 5 million performances. In 2000, "Mojo" ranked "Something" at number 14 in the magazine's list of "The 100 Greatest Songs of All Time"; it was ranked 110th on "Rolling Stone"s 2021 list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time". In 2002, a year after Harrison's death, McCartney and Eric Clapton performed it at the Concert for George tribute at London's Royal Albert Hall.
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP] Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child  "Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child", also "Motherless Child", is a traditional Spiritual. It dates back to the era of slavery in the United States.   An early performance of the song was in the 1870s by the Fisk Jubilee Singers. Commonly heard during the Civil rights movement in the United States, it has many variations and has been recorded widely.
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP] Sometimes (Britney Spears song)  "Sometimes" is a song by American singer Britney Spears from her debut studio album, "...Baby One More Time" (1999). Written by Jörgen Elofsson and produced by Elofsson himself, Per Magnusson and David Kreuger, the song was released as Spears' second single on April 6, 1999, by Jive Records. "Sometimes" is a bubblegum pop ballad that alludes to a relationship where a shy girl is reserved on expressing feelings to her lover. The song received generally favorable reviews from contemporary critics.  "Sometimes" attained worldwide success, peaking inside the top ten in multiple countries. In the United States, the song peaked at number 21 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The song reached number one in Belgium (Flanders), Netherlands and New Zealand, while reaching number two in Australia. In the United Kingdom, the song reached number three, and is also Spears' third best-selling single in the country. An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, was shot at the Paradise Cove in Malibu, California. It portrays Spears watching her love interest from afar. Spears has performed "Sometimes" in four of her concert tours: the ...Baby One More Time Tour (1999), the (You Drive Me) Crazy Tour (2000), the Oops!... I Did It Again Tour (2000–01), and the Dream Within a Dream Tour (2001–02).
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP] Sometimes When We Touch  "Sometimes When We Touch" is a 1977 ballad written by Canadian pop rock artist Dan Hill (lyrics) and Barry Mann (music) on the album "Longer Fuse". It was first released as a single by Hill. His version of the song became the most successful and his biggest hit. Since its original release "Sometimes When We Touch" has been released by several different artists in various musical formats.
Who was the composer of Sometime? [SEP] Sometime (Glenn Miller song)  Sometime is a 1939 song composed by Glenn Miller, Chummy MacGregor, and Mitchell Parish and performed for radio broadcast only. The song was never recorded in the studio but was performed live for remote radio broadcast on the Mutual and Blue Network from the Meadowbrook Ballroom in Cedar Grove, New Jersey.
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP]  Schoenberg's Suite for piano, Op. 25 (1921/23), both of which begin with an introductory prelude (Schoenberg's choral introduction to the Genesis Suite is a rare case of an attached prelude written in the 20th century without any neo-baroque intent ). As well as a series of unattached piano preludes (Op. 2), Dmitri Shostakovich composed a set of 24 Preludes and Fugues in the tradition of Bach's The Well Tempered Clavier. Some avant-garde composers have also produced unattached preludes. John Cage's brief Prelude for Meditation is written for prepared piano, while François-Bernard Mâche's Prélude (1959) and Branimir Sakač's Aleatory Prelude (1961) call on electronic resources and aleatoric techniques.
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP]  its premiere as part of Bernstein's Omnibus television show, The World of Jazz on October 16, 1955. According to some sources the soloist at the premiere was Al Gallodoro; other sources state it was premiered by Benny Goodman – Bernstein's Tanglewood neighbour and friend since the 1940s – to whom the work was dedicated. In 1952 Bernstein revised the score from its original instrumentation for a more conventional pit orchestra, and the work was then incorporated into a ballet sequence in the first draft of the musical comedy Wonderful Town. The revised version of Prelude, Fugue and Riffs did not survive and the majority of the music was cut from the final version of the Wonderful Town score with the exception of a few phrases in the musical's numbers "Conquering the City" and "Conversation Piece". It later was transcribed for clarinet and orchestra by Lukas Foss.
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP] Rondeau for percussion and piano (1959) ; Valse Rondo for solo clarinet and piano (1978) ; Dialogue for solo clarinet and piano (1978) ; Elegy for solo clarinet and piano (1978) ; Concerto grosso for saxophone quartet and piano (1980) ; Suite for flute and piano, bass, drum-set (1986)
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP]  composers such as Dieterich Buxtehude (c.1637–1707) and Nikolaus Bruhns (c.1665–1697) combined sections of free improvised passages with parts in strict contrapuntal writing (usually brief fugues). Outside Germany, Abraham van den Kerckhoven (c.1618–c.1701), one of the most important Dutch composers of the period, used this model for some of his preludes. Southern and central German composers did not follow the sectional model and their preludes remained improvisational in character with little or no strict counterpoint. During the second half of the 17th century, German composers started pairing preludes (or sometimes toccatas) with fugues in the same key; Johann Pachelbel (c.1653–1706) was one of the first to do so, although
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP]  for Clarinet and Piano by Francis Poulenc, and Clarinet Concerto by Aaron Copland. Prelude, Fugue, and Riffs by Leonard Bernstein was commissioned for Woody Herman's big band, but it was premiered by Goodman. Herman was the dedicatee (1945) and first performer (1946) of Igor Stravinsky's Ebony Concerto, but many years later Stravinsky made another recording with Goodman as the soloist. He made a recording of Mozart's Clarinet Quintet in July 1956 with the Boston Symphony String Quartet at the Berkshire Festival; on the same occasion he recorded Mozart's Clarinet Concerto in A major, K. 622, with the Boston Symphony Orchestra conducted by Charles Munch. He also recorded the clarinet concertos of Weber After forays outside swing, Goodman started a new band in 1953. According
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP] Prelude for Clarinet (Penderecki)  The Prelude for Clarinet in B-flat major, sometimes also referred to as Prelude for Solo Clarinet, is a work by Polish composer Krzysztof Penderecki. It was composed in 1987 and is one of the pieces from the series of compositions for solo instruments that Penderecki composed during the 1980s, such as "Cadenza for Solo Viola" (1984) and "Per Slava" (1986).
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP] Prelude, Fugue, and Riffs  Prelude, Fugue and Riffs is a "written-out" jazz-in-concert-hall composition composed by Leonard Bernstein for a jazz ensemble featuring solo clarinet.  The title points to the union of classical music and jazz: Prelude (first movement) and Fugue (second movement) – both baroque forms – are followed immediately without a pause by a series of "riffs" (third movement), which is a jazz term for a repeated and short melodic figure.  It features:  Completed in 1949 for Woody Herman's big band as part of a series of commissioned works – that already included Stravinsky's "Ebony Concerto" – it was never performed by Herman, possibly because his orchestra had disbanded at that time.  Instead, it received its premiere as part of Bernstein's "Omnibus" television show, "The World of Jazz" on October 16, 1955. other sources state it was premiered by Benny Goodman – Bernstein's Tanglewood neighbour and friend since the 1940s – to whom the work was dedicated.<ref name=notes />  In 1952 Bernstein revised the score from its original instrumentation for a more conventional pit orchestra, and the work was then incorporated into a ballet sequence in the first draft of the musical comedy "Wonderful Town". The revised version of "Prelude, Fugue and Riffs" did not survive and the majority of the music was cut from the final version of the "Wonderful Town" score with the exception of a few phrases in the musical's numbers "Conquering the City" and "Conversation Piece".  It later was transcribed for clarinet and orchestra by Lukas Foss.
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP]
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP] List of compositions by Witold Lutosławski  This is a list of compositions by Polish composer Witold Lutosławski. A complete list of Lutosławski's compositions in chronological order can be found at "The Polish Music Center".
Who was the composer of Prelude for Clarinet? [SEP] Three Preludes (Gershwin)  Three Preludes is a collection of short piano pieces by George Gershwin, which were first performed by the composer at the Roosevelt Hotel in New York City in 1926. Each prelude is a well-known example of early-20th-century American classical music, as influenced by jazz.  Gershwin originally planned to compose 24 preludes called "The Melting Pot" for this group of works. The number was reduced to seven in manuscript form, and then reduced to six in public performance, and further decreased to three when first published in 1926. Two of the remaining preludes not published were rearranged for solo violin and piano and published as "Short Story". Of the other two, the Prelude in G was eliminated by the publisher because somewhat similar music had already appeared in Gershwin's Concerto in F. The other was excluded for unknown reasons.  Gershwin dedicated his Preludes to friend and musical advisor Bill Daly.  The pieces have been arranged for solo instruments, small ensembles, and piano.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP]  The Moment's Energy is an album by British saxophonist and improvisor Evan Parker's Electro-Acoustic Ensemble recorded at the Lawrence Batley Theatre in 2007 and released on the ECM label.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] Evan Parker - soprano saxophone ; Peter Evans - trumpet, piccolo trumpet ; Ko Ishikawa - shō ; Ned Rothenberg - clarinet, bass clarinet, shakuhachi ; Philipp Wachsmann - violin, live electronics ; Agustí Fernandez - piano, prepared piano ; Barry Guy - double bass ; Paul Lytton - percussion, live electronics ; Lawrence Casserley - signal processing instrument ; Joel Ryan - sample and signal processing ; Walter Prati - computer processing ; Richard Barrett - live electronics ; Paul Obermayer - live electronics ; Marco Vecchi - sound projection
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] 1) "The Moment's Energy I" - 9:29 ; 2) "The Moment's Energy II" - 9:45 ; 3) "The Moment's Energy III" - 9:34 ; 4) "The Moment's Energy IV" - 4:19 ; 5) "The Moment's Energy V" - 9:23 ; 6) "The Moment's Energy VI" - 8:11 ; 7) "The Moment's Energy VII" - 11:14 ; 8) "Incandescent Clouds" - 5:05 All compositions by Evan Parker
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP]  Momente (Moments) is a work by the German composer Karlheinz Stockhausen, written between 1962 and 1969, scored for solo soprano, four mixed choirs, and thirteen instrumentalists (four trumpets, four trombones, three percussionists, and two electric keyboards). A "cantata with radiophonic and theatrical overtones", it is described by the composer as "practically an opera of Mother Earth surrounded by her chicks". It was Stockhausen's first piece composed on principles of modular transposability, and his first musical form to be determined from categories of sensation or perception rather than by numerical units of musical terminology, which marks a significant change in the composer's musical approach from the abstract forms of the 1950s.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP]  The Allmusic review by Thom Jurek awarded the album 4 stars stating "this work is more modern composition than merely free or experimental jazz. This is a gorgeous work when taken as a whole, a musical journey through multi-dimensional landscapes and sonic shadows that seems to stretch time itself." On All About Jazz John Kelman called it "an album where there's both greater density and delineation, an even broader dynamic scope and, quite simply, one of the most ambitious mixtures of form and freedom, and extant and new-found textures" and "A composition that could never be performed the same way twice, its careful construction of sound in real-time and post-production makes for
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] Power (Kanye West song)  "Power" (often stylized as "POWER") is a song by American hip hop recording artist Kanye West, released as the lead single from his fifth studio album, "My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy" (2010). The song features additional vocals by soul singer Dwele and is co-produced by West and Symbolyc One. It is built around samples of "21st Century Schizoid Man" by King Crimson, "Afromerica" by Continent Number 6, and "It's Your Thing" by Cold Grits. After having recorded it in Hawaii, West reported that 5,000 man-hours were spent developing "Power". In its lyrics, West comments about the United States, his mental health and his critics. Its chorus features an abrasive vocal-riff.  "Power" was West's comeback single following his 2008 album "808s & Heartbreak" and his controversial incident with Taylor Swift at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards. The song received acclaim from music critics and was listed among the best tracks of 2010 by several publications, including "Time", Pitchfork Media, "Spin", and "Rolling Stone". Critics described it as a return to form for West, praising its intricate production, lyrical merit, and scope. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rap Solo Performance at the 53rd Grammy Awards.  The song debuted on the "Billboard" Hot 100 at position 22 and thereafter declined. The track was promoted by a music video, which was directed by Marco Brambilla. The video features a long take of the camera pulling away from West. The video received positive reviews from critics and received two nominations for MTV Video Music Awards. West performed the song on "Saturday Night Live", at the 2010 BET Awards, at the 2011 Coachella Music Festival, and his Watch the Throne Tour. A remix of the track featuring Jay-Z was released on August 20, 2010, as a part of West's weekly GOOD Fridays series.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] In This Moment  In This Moment is an American rock band from Los Angeles, California, formed by singer Maria Brink and guitarist Chris Howorth in 2005. They found drummer Jeff Fabb and started the band as Dying Star. Unhappy with their musical direction, they changed their name to In This Moment and gained two band members, guitarist Blake Bunzel and bassist Josh Newell. In 2005, bassist Newell left the band and was replaced by Jesse Landry.  Their debut album, "Beautiful Tragedy", was released in 2007. Their follow up, titled "The Dream" was released the following year debuting at number 73 on the "Billboard" 200. The band's third album, "A Star-Crossed Wasteland" was released in 2010, and their fourth album titled "Blood" was released in August 2012 and debuted at number 15. Their fifth album titled "Black Widow" was released in November 2014 and debuted at number 8, their highest position in the charts to date. "Ritual", their sixth, was released in the summer of 2017 and debuted at number 23. Their seventh studio album, "Mother" was released on March 27, 2020. They have received two nominations of Alternative Press Music Awards, including two for Best Hard Rock Artist and one for Best Live Band. They have also received a Grammy nomination for Best Metal Performance. To date, the band has 4 singles and an album certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).  The band's line-up has changed several times. Landry was replaced by Kyle Konkiel in 2009 and Konkiel was replaced by Travis Johnson in 2010. Jeff Fabb and Blake Bunzel left the band in 2011, and were replaced by Tom Hane and Randy Weitzel respectively. In March 2016, drummer Tom Hane announced his departure from the band and was replaced by Kent Diimmel, formerly of 3 By Design.  Throughout their career, the band has performed on several notable tours and festivals including Ozzfest in 2007 and 2008; Warped Tour in 2009; Download Festival in 2009, 2013, and 2018; Mayhem Festival in 2010; Music as a Weapon V tour in 2011; Uproar Festival in 2012; Rock on the Range in 2012, 2013, and 2015; Carnival of Madness tour in 2013; Knotfest in 2014; Rockfest and Rocklahoma in 2015; Carolina Rebellion in 2018; Louder Than Life in 2017 and 2019; Aftershock in 2014, 2017, and 2021; Welcome to Rockville in 2013, 2015, 2017, and 2019; and Knotfest in 2022.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP]
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] Nina Cried Power EP  Nina Cried Power is the fourth extended play (EP) by the Irish musician Hozier. It was released on 7 September 2018. Its lead single "Nina Cried Power" featuring Mavis Staples is inspired by the legacies of artists like Nina Simone, Joni Mitchell, Billie Holiday, James Brown, Bob Dylan, Woody Guthrie, and Staples herself. The EP is Hozier's first new release since his 2014 self-titled debut album.
Who was the composer of The Moment's Energy? [SEP] Superman  Superman is a superhero who appears in American comic books published by DC Comics. The character was created by writer Jerry Siegel and artist Joe Shuster, and debuted in the comic book "Action Comics" #1 (cover-dated June 1938 and published April 18, 1938). Superman has been adapted to a number of other media, including radio serials, novels, films, television shows, theater productions, and video games.  Superman was born on the fictional planet Krypton and was named Kal-El. When he was a baby, his parents sent him to Earth in a small spaceship moments before Krypton was destroyed in a natural cataclysm. His ship landed in the American countryside, near the fictional town of Smallville. He was found and adopted by farmers Jonathan and Martha Kent, who named him Clark Kent. Clark developed various superhuman abilities, such as incredible strength and impervious skin. His adoptive parents advised him to use his abilities for the benefit of humanity, and he decided to fight crime. To protect his personal life, he changes into a colorful costume and uses the alias "Superman" when fighting crime. Clark resides in the fictional American city of Metropolis, where he works as a journalist for the "Daily Planet". Superman's supporting characters include his love interest and fellow journalist Lois Lane, "Daily Planet" photographer Jimmy Olsen and editor-in-chief Perry White, and enemies such as Brainiac, Darkseid, General Zod, and his archenemy Lex Luthor.  Superman is the archetype of the superhero: he wears an outlandish costume, uses a codename, and fights evil with the aid of extraordinary abilities. Although there are earlier characters who arguably fit this definition, it was Superman who popularized the superhero genre and established its conventions. He was the best-selling superhero in American comic books until the 1980s.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP]  Pole was composed in Bali in February 1970, at that time under the working title of Duo. Between 14 March and 14 September 1970, Pole was played and sung over a thousand times at Expo '70 in Osaka, Japan, in daily performances by twenty different musicians including the composer. The score is dedicated to Harald Bojé and Péter Eötvös, who played in the majority of the early performances, and who also made a number of radio recordings and two commercially released recordings of the piece.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP]  Pole (Poles), for two performers with shortwave radio receivers and a sound projectionist, is a composition by Karlheinz Stockhausen, written in 1970. It is Number 30 in the catalogue of the composer's works.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] May Pole (open score) (1971) ; Chorales (1980) ; Chorales 2 (1987) ; Lento (1990) ; The Light Fantastic, for chamber orchestra (1991) ; Concerto for Hurdy-Gurdy and Percussion (1994) ; Ballade, for saxophone quartet and string orchestra (1997) ; Concerto for Oboe, Accordion and Strings (1997) ; Concertante, for solo violin and strings (1998) ; Prelude (1999) ; Sarabande (2002) ; Only the Sound Remains for viola and chamber ensemble (2010) ; Piano Concerto
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP]  propagating in the late 1960s. The score of May Pole (1971), a piece for orchestra, consists of a chance-determined sequence of chords. Each performer chooses a note from a chord, and chooses the moment when to play that note. The later the choice, the softer the dynamics. Skempton later called such pieces "landscapes" that "simply project the material as sound, without momentum." Other early works include two pieces for tape, a medium Skempton rarely used later: Indian Summer (1969) and Drum No. 3 (1971). The early 1970s saw a slow shift from static, abstract pieces to pieces with more clearly defined rhythmic and
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP]  Pole is the artistic name of Stefan Betke (born 18 February 1967), a German electronic music artist commonly associated with the glitch genre as well as dubtronica.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] Pole (musician)  Pole is the artistic name of Stefan Betke (born 18 February 1967), a German electronic music artist commonly associated with the glitch genre as well as dubtronica.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] The Maid Freed from the Gallows  "The Maid Freed from the Gallows" is one of many titles of a centuries-old folk song about a condemned maiden pleading for someone to buy her freedom from the executioner. In the collection of ballads compiled by Francis James Child in the late 19th century, it is indexed as Child Ballad number 95; 11 variants, some fragmentary, are indexed as 95A to 95K. The Roud Folk Song Index identifies it as number 144.  The ballad exists in a number of folkloric variants, from many different countries, and has been remade in a variety of formats. For example, it was recorded in 1939 as "The Gallis Pole" by folk singer Huddie "Lead Belly" Ledbetter, and in 1970 as "Gallows Pole", an arrangement of the Fred Gerlach version, by English rock band Led Zeppelin, on the album "Led Zeppelin III".
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] Pole Position  The game was a major commercial success in arcades. After becoming the highest-grossing arcade game of 1982 in Japan, it went on to become the most popular coin-operated arcade game internationally in 1983. In North America, it was the highest-grossing arcade game for two years in 1983 and 1984 and still one of the top five arcade video games of 1985.  It was the most successful racing game of the classic era, spawning ports, sequels, and a Saturday morning cartoon, although the cartoon had very little in common with the game. The game established the conventions of the racing game genre and its success inspired numerous imitators. "Pole Position" is regarded as one of the most influential video games of all time, and it is considered to be the most influential racing game in particular. Its sequel, "Pole Position II", was released in 1983.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] Pole (Stockhausen)  Pole (Poles), for two performers with shortwave radio receivers and a sound projectionist, is a composition by Karlheinz Stockhausen, written in 1970. It is Number 30 in the catalogue of the composer's works.
Who was the composer of Pole? [SEP] Pole Chudes  Pole Chudes (, "The Field of Wonders") is a Russian adaptation of the U.S. game show "Wheel of Fortune" (loosely based on the original format; the license wasn't bought from the distributor) produced by VID, provided with elements of Russian culture and hosted by Leonid Yakubovich. The current rating of the show suggests it is intended for ages 16 and above, unlike the American version which is suitable for all age groups. Channel One Russia currently intends to stop buying Pole Chudes from VID and replace it with a licensed version of Wheel of Fortune under the same name since January 2022. Originally, due to a trademark dispute with VID, the title of the new show was supposed to be Nashe Pole Chudes, however, VID later agreed to let Channel One keep the original Pole Chudes name and the full 31-year archive, while Channel One will be producing the new reboot of the show as a licensed spin-off of Wheel of Fortune.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a 1929 song by the Tobias brothers: Charles Tobias, Harry Tobias and Henry Tobias. It was the three brothers' first published song, and their first hit, but one of the few songs where all three collaborated. The song was revived for the 1942 film Strictly in the Groove when it was sung by The Dinning Sisters and played by Ozzie Nelson and Orchestra.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a song by the English rock band the Rolling Stones, released on Rolling Stones Records in May 1978. It was released as the first single one month in advance of their album Some Girls. "Miss You" was written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. It peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and number three on the UK Singles Chart. An extended version, called the "Special Disco Version", was released as the band's first dance remix on a 12-inch single.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  Miss You" ; 2008 – Arash – "Na Morya" (feat. Anna Semenovich) ; 2009 – Basshunter – "Every Morning" ; 2009 – Aysel Teymurzadeh and Arash – "Always" ; 2009 – Arash – "Kandi" (feat. Lumidee) ; 2010 – Arash – "Broken Angel" (feat. Helena) ; 2010 – Arash – "Dasa Bala" (feat. Timbuktu & Yag) ; 2010 – Basshunter – "Saturday" ; 2010 – Die Antwoord – "Enter the Ninja" ; 2011 – Arash – "Melody" ; 2012 – Fabrizio Faniello – "I Will Fight for You" ; 2013 – Arash – "She Makes Me Go" (feat. Sean Paul) ; 2014 – Margaret – "Wasted"
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Have You Met Miss Jones?" is a popular song that was written for the musical comedy I'd Rather Be Right. The music was written by Richard Rodgers and the lyrics by Lorenz Hart. The song was published in 1937.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP]  "Miss You" is a song by English singer-songwriter Gabrielle Aplin. It was released through Aplin's record label Never Fade Records on 9 November 2016, as the lead single from her fifth extended play of the same name. The song was written by Aplin and Liz Horsman, and produced by Mike Spencer and Horsman.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You (Rolling Stones song)  "Miss You" is a song by the English rock band the Rolling Stones, released on Rolling Stones Records in May 1978. It was released as the first single one month in advance of their album "Some Girls". "Miss You" was written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. It peaked at number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and number three on the UK Singles Chart. An extended version, called the "Special Disco Version", was released as the band's first dance remix on a 12-inch single.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] I Miss You (Blink-182 song)  "I Miss You" is a song by American rock band Blink-182, released on February 2, 2004, as the second single from the group's self-titled fifth studio album (2003). Co-written by guitarist Tom DeLonge and bassist Mark Hoppus, they employed a method of writing separately and bringing their two verses together later. The song, produced entirely acoustic, features an acoustic electric bass, a cello, and a brushstroked drum loop. The song was inspired by the Cure song "The Love Cats" and contains references to "The Nightmare Before Christmas" (1993).  The song peaked at number one on the US "Billboard" Modern Rock Tracks chart and peaked at number 42 on the "Billboard" Hot 100. Although "All the Small Things" had slightly more radio airplay, "I Miss You" sold more copies, earning gold certification for selling over 500,000 copies. In the United Kingdom, the song was a national top 10 hit on the UK Singles Chart, peaking at number eight.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Missing You (John Waite song)  "Missing You" is a song co-written and recorded by English musician John Waite. It was released in June 1984 as the lead single from his second album, "No Brakes" (1984). It reached number one on "Billboard"s Album Rock Tracks and on the Hot 100 as well as number 9 on the UK Singles Chart. "Missing You" was the only record from 1984 to spend a single week at the top of the Hot 100. The song was nominated for the 1985 Best Pop Vocal Performance Male Grammy Award.  Waite re-recorded the song with country/bluegrass artist Alison Krauss which appeared on her album "", and released it to country music radio in 2007. The re-recording peaked at number 34 on the Hot Country Songs chart. The original recording has been featured in the films, "Selena" (1997) and "Warm Bodies" (2013), the video game "", and the TV series "Miami Vice" (from the episode, "Heart of Darkness", originally aired 28 September 1984), as well as in the comedy sitcom "Rules of Engagement", in a scene at the diner where there is a flashback of Timmy and Russell's best moments together (season 7, episode "A Wee Problem", originally aired on 6 May 2013). It also appears in the film "22 Jump Street" (2014) during the montage where main characters Schmidt and Jenko begin to miss each other after going their separate ways following a fight.  The song is mentioned by Sheila Weller as describing O. J. Simpson's obsession with Nicole Brown Simpson and is the inspiration for the title of her book "Raging Heart".
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You Nights  "Miss You Nights" is a song written by Dave Townsend and made famous worldwide by Cliff Richard. The song has been recorded by numerous other artists, most notably Westlife, who released it as the second track on a double A-side single in 2003. The Westlife single reached number 3 in the UK singles chart.
Who was the composer of Miss You? [SEP] Miss You Like Crazy  "Miss You Like Crazy" is a song by American singer Natalie Cole, released as a single on March 15, 1989, from her 11th solo studio album, "Good to Be Back" (1989).
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP]  Bishop James Albert Duffy (13 September 1873 – 12 February 1968) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church who served as the first bishop of the Diocese of Grand Island (formerly diocese of Kearney), Nebraska from 1913 to 1931.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP]  Duffy was born in St. Paul, Minnesota, the third child of James J. Duffy and Johanna Shiely. When the death of the parents in 1879 orphaned the eight Duffy children, James Albert went to live at the Boys Orphan Asylum in Minneapolis. From 1887 to 1893 he was a student at the University of St. Thomas and subsequently attended Saint Paul Seminary School of Divinity from 1894 to 1899.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP]  James Duffy (1809 – 4 July 1871) was a prominent Irish author and publisher. Duffy's business would become one of the major publishers of Irish nationalist books, bibles, magazines, Missals and religious texts throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. He was also a major publisher of Irish fiction. He was described as having "invented a new kind of cosy family Catholicism."
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP]  In 2014, Duffy published his autobiography, Growing Up Irish in Britain, British in Ireland and in Washington, Moscow, Rome & Sydney. A practicing Catholic, Duffy completed the El Camino Santiago de Compostela pilgrimage (known as the Way of St. James in English) for six years running whilst in his 80s, which involves a 25 km daily walk for 35 days. He was invested as a Knight Commander of the Order of St. Gregory the Great (KCSG) at the age of 96 in 2017. He has never married, though according to Yorkshire Live, "he says he was not short of attractive
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP]  Joseph Duffy (born 27 January 1956) is an Irish broadcaster employed by Raidió Teilifís Éireann (RTÉ). One of RTÉ's highest-earning stars, he is the current presenter of Liveline, an interview and phone-in chat show broadcast on RTÉ Radio 1 on Mondays to Fridays between 13:45 and 15:h00. Duffy has a history as a student activist. As President of the Union of Students in Ireland (U.S.I.) he was once jailed for an occupation in which he had participated. He describes himself as a Christian socialist who advocates justice "very much based on Christian teaching and principles". Duffy retraced his Christian roots in 2010 by hosting an RTÉ One TV show called Joe Duffy's Spirit Level which discussed the great faith of the Irish people and various religions present in the country, and also queried whether David McSavage's satirical portrayal of Duffy could be considered blasphemous. Duffy is married, is the father of triplets, and resides in Clontarf, Dublin. He won a Jacob's Award in 1992.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP] Jim Duffy (journalist)  Jim Duffy (born 12 April 1966) is an Irish historian, political commentator, and served as a policy advisor to then Irish leader of the Opposition, Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny prior to the 2011 general election. He first achieved prominence in 1990 when the contents of his on-the-record interview with then Tánaiste Brian Lenihan, in which Lenihan admitted making calls to the residence of the Irish president seeking to speak to President Hillery to urge him to refuse a Dáil dissolution in controversial circumstances (something he had previously denied), led to Lenihan's dismissal from government, his defeat in that year's Irish presidential election and the unexpected election of the left wing liberal Mary Robinson as President of Ireland.  Duffy was one of six people chosen to submit international reports on heads of state to Australia's Republic Advisory Committee in 1993. He was an occasional contributor to "The Irish Times" and the "Sunday Independent", and a columnist in "Magill" magazine, as well as appearing on radio and television prior to his appointment to Kenny's office, but has ceased all media work since that date.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP] Sean Duffy  Sean Patrick Duffy (born October 3, 1971) is an American politician, prosecutor, former sports commentator and reality television personality who is currently a co-host of "The Bottom Line" on Fox Business, as well as a contributor on Fox News. A member of the Republican Party, he previously served as the U.S. representative for Wisconsin's 7th congressional district from 2011 to 2019.  He first gained fame as a cast member on "", 1998's "" and 2002's "", before going on to serve as district attorney of Ashland County, Wisconsin.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP] A Rugrats Passover  "A Rugrats Passover" is the 65th episode of the American animated television series "Rugrats" (and the season three finale overall). It first aired on Nickelodeon in the United States on April 13, 1995. The episode follows series regulars Grandpa Boris and the babies as they become trapped in the attic on Passover; to pass the time, Boris tells the Jewish story of the Exodus. During the episode, the babies themselves reenact the story, with Tommy portraying Moses, while his cousin Angelica represents the Pharaoh of Egypt.  "A Rugrats Passover" was directed by Jim Duffy, Steve Socki, and Jeff McGrath from a script by Peter Gaffney, Paul Germain, Rachel Lipman, and Jonathon Greenberg. The episode was conceived in 1992, when Germain responded to a Nickelodeon request for a "Rugrats" Hanukkah special by creating a Passover episode instead. The episode scored a 3.1 Nielsen Rating, making it the highest-rated show in Nickelodeon's history, and received overwhelmingly positive reviews, including from Jewish community publications. It was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award, an Annie Award, and a CableACE Award.  The episode made "Rugrats" one of the first animated series to focus on a Jewish holiday; its success precipitated the creation of "A Rugrats Chanukah" in 1996, which also attracted critical acclaim. However, both episodes faced controversy when the Anti-Defamation League compared the artistic design of the older characters to anti-Semitic drawings from a 1930s Nazi newspaper. Despite this, in 2007, a novelization of the Passover episode was exhibited at the Sherwin Miller Museum of Jewish Art in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP] Charles Gavan Duffy  Sir Charles Gavan Duffy, KCMG, PC (12 April 1816 – 9 February 1903), was an Irish poet and journalist (editor of "The Nation"), Young Irelander and tenant-rights activist. After emigrating to Australia in 1856 he entered the politics of Victoria on a platform of land reform, and in 1871-72 served as the colony's 8th Premier.
What is the religion of James Albert Duffy? [SEP] Eoin O'Duffy  Eoin O'Duffy (born Owen Duffy; 28 January 1890 – 30 November 1944) was an Irish military commander, police commissioner and politician. O'Duffy was the leader of the Monaghan Brigade of the Irish Republican Army (IRA) and a prominent figure in the Ulster IRA during the Irish War of Independence. In this capacity, he became Chief of Staff of the IRA in 1922. He accepted the Anglo-Irish Treaty and as a general became Chief of Staff of the National Army in the Irish Civil War, on the pro-Treaty side.  He had been an early member of Sinn Féin and was elected a Teachta Dála (TD) for Monaghan in the Second Dáil find 1921, supporting pro-Treaty Sinn Féin in the split of 1922. In 1923 he became associated with Cumann na nGaedheal and became the second Commissioner of the Garda Síochána, the police force of the new Irish Free State, after the Civic Guard Mutiny and the subsequent resignation of Michael Staines.  In the 1930s O'Duffy became attracted to the various fascist movements on the continent. In 1933 O'Duffy took control of the paramilitary movement called Army Comrades Association, also known as the Blueshirts. When the Blueshirts merged with Cumann na nGaedhael and National Centre Party to form Fine Gael, O'Duffy began the new party's first leader, remaining as such for 13 months. He subsequently raised the Irish Brigade to fight for Francisco Franco during the Spanish Civil War as an act of Catholic solidarity and was inspired by Benito Mussolini's Italy to create the National Corporate Party. During the Second World War, he offered to Nazi Germany the prospect of raising an Irish Brigade to fight against the Soviet Union on the Eastern Front, but this was not taken up.  O'Duffy was active in multiple sporting bodies, including the Gaelic Athletic Association and the Irish Olympic Council.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]  longer underground, but visibly, at all levels of society." Joanne Pearson describes, in Wicca and the Christian Heritage, these "cults and counter religions" as often "combining heterodox Christianity, occultism, Freemasonry and spiritualism", and considers the Johannite Church (Église Johannite des Chrétiens Primitifs) founded by Bernard-Raymond Fabré-Palaprat as an exemplar of sects that were revivals of heresy; they were linked with "gnosis such as Catharism and the Templars, and sought to return to the simplicity of an imagined primitive Christianity." Pearson notes the Johannite Church attracted lapsed Catholic bishops and priests. The paradox of 19th century French religious revival, alongside anti-clericalism and irreligion, is characterised by David
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]  Souriac is a specialist of history of religions, and more precisely religious conflicts in the 16th century and their extension in local political contexts, of military history, public finances and political power under the Ancien Régime and the provincial and municipal institutions in Ancien Régime France.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]  Pierre de Bérulle (4 February 1575 – 2 October 1629), was a French Catholic priest, cardinal and statesman, one of the most important mystics of the 17th century in France. He was the founder of the French school of spirituality, who could count among his friends and disciples Vincent de Paul and Francis de Sales.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]  Joseph Antoine Toussaint Dinouart (November 1, 1716 &ndash; April 23, 1786) was a preacher, polemicist, compiler of sacred learning, and apologist for French feminism. Born in Amiens, he was ordained as a priest in there in 1740. In his youth, he showed a talent for Latin poetry, but soon neglected this in favor of his religious studies. After writing a short essay on women's rights, he had a falling out with his bishop and moved to Paris, where he joined the Saint-Eustache parish. He soon left, however, to tutor the son of a police lieutenant. This position gave him a stable yearly income and allowed Dinouart to devote himself to the study of literature. In 1760, he founded the Journal ecclésiastique, which he edited until his death. The collected work of this journal numbers more than 100 volumes. It contains extracts from sermons, treatises on morality and piety, and research on ecclesiastical law and councils.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]  Jean-Paul Rabaut Saint-Étienne (14 November 1743 – 5 December 1793) was a leader of the French Protestants and a moderate French revolutionary.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP] 2021 in Haiti  Events in the year 2021 in Haiti.
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]
What is the religion of Pierre-Antoine Paulo? [SEP]
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP]  Joseph-Médard Émard (31 March 1853 &ndash; 28 March 1927) was a Canadian Roman Catholic priest, professor, and Archbishop of Ottawa.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP]  Joseph Médard Carrière (1902–1970), was a Franco-Ontarian French-language scholar.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP]  François-Xavier Picard Tahourenché (1810-1883) was a Great Chief of the Lorette Hurons from 1870 to 1883 and an archivist who was designated a Person of National Historic Significance by the Canadian Government in 2008. He "shaped the history of his nation by keeping archives and heritage objects that reflect the life, history and values of the Huron-Wendat people." He was born to Marguerite Vincent Lawinonkié and Paul Picard Hondawonhont in Wendake, Quebec.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP]  Joseph Hémard, a popular French book illustrator, was born in Les Mureaux, France, a small town on the Seine, northwest of Paris, on 2 August 1880. He died on 9 August 1961 in Paris. He was a prolific artist. During the early years of the 20th century he published cartoons and comics in illustrated newspapers like Le Pêle-mêle or Le Bon Vivant. He also designed costumes and sets for several operas, patterns for printed textiles, bookbindings, posters and even a facade for a bar in the 1925 Paris Exposition of Decorative Art. His lasting fame, however, lies in his book illustrations – always distinctly French
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP]  Joseph Henri Picard (February 18, 1857 – May 23, 1934) was a politician in Alberta, Canada and a municipal councillor in Edmonton. Picard was born in Saint-Jean-de-Matha, Quebec on February 18, 1857. He apprenticed as a carpenter before coming west in 1884 to Fort Qu'Appelle and then Regina. In Calgary, he met Father Albert Lacombe, who suggested to him that he move to Edmonton, which he did in 1887. Once in Edmonton, he opened a general store, Larue & Picard; it was sold in 1907 when both he and his partner retired. In 1903, he married Martine Voyer. The couple had two sons. His political career began in 1894 when he
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Valleyfield  The Roman Catholic Diocese of Valleyfield () is a Catholic diocese in Quebec and a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Montreal. It was erected in 1892.  The diocese, which is based in the western suburbs of Montreal, features approximately 201,000 baptized Catholics. Parishioners are served by 48 priests, 17 deacons, 31 religious brothers, and 76 religious sisters. In 2008, the diocese consolidated its 63 parishes into 24.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Ottawa–Cornwall  The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Ottawa–Cornwall (, ) is a Catholic archdiocese that includes part of the Province of Ontario and includes the suffragan dioceses of Hearst, Pembroke, and Timmins. On 6 May 2020, Pope Francis amalgamated the Archdiocese of Ottawa and the Diocese of Alexandria-Cornwall to create the Archdiocese of Ottawa–Cornwall.  The Diocese of Bytown was erected on 25 June 1847. Its name was changed to the Diocese of Ottawa on 14 June 1860. It was elevated to archdiocese status on 8 June 1886. As of 2004, the archdiocese contained 111 parishes, 177 active diocesan priests, 102 religious priests, and 400,000 Catholics. It also has 848 Women Religious, 147 Religious Brothers, and 60 permanent deacons.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Montreal  The Archdiocese of Montréal () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory or archdiocese of the Catholic Church in Canada. A metropolitan see, its archepiscopal see is the Montreal, Quebec. It includes Montreal and surrounding areas within Quebec.
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP] 1927
What is the religion of Joseph-Médard Émard? [SEP] French priest, Saint Peter Julian Eymard. As he searched for a response to the needs and challenges of his time, he found the answer in the love of God manifested in a special way in the Eucharist. During Eymard's lifetime, the character of French Catholicism was changing from a religion of guilt and fear to a religion based on God's mercy and love. Eymard was a leading figure in this transition. Eymard was born February 4, 1811, at La Mure, Isère, France. He was a contemporary and friend of Peter Chanel, John Vianney, Marcellin Champagnat, and the sculptor, Auguste Rodin.
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]  film producer, director and writer ; Clemente G. Gomez-Rodriguez (born 1939), Cuban writer ; Clemente Gera (died 1643), Italian Roman Catholic bishop ; Clemente Gordon (born 1967), American football quarterback ; Clemente Gràcia (1897–1981), Spanish footballer ; Clemente Isnard (1917–2011), Brazilian Catholic bishop ; Clemente López de Osornio (1720–1783), Argentine-Spanish military leader. ; Clemente Marroquín (1897–1978), Guatemalan journalist and politician ; Clemente Mejía (1928–1978), Mexican swimmer ; Clemente Micara (1879–1965), Italian Catholic cardinal ; Clemente Núñez (born 1975), Dominican baseball player ; Clemente Origo (1855–1921), Italian painter ; Clemente Ovalle (born 1982), Mexican footballer ; Clemente Palacios (born 1993), Colombian footballer ; Clemente Palma (1872–1946), Peruvian writer ;
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]  Louie Clemente (born January 23, 1965) is a former drummer for the Bay Area thrash metal band Testament. He is known for being a part of Testament's original line-up.
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]  Louie Clemente (born 1965), American musician ; Ludovic Clemente (born 1986), Andorran footballer ; Manuel Clemente (born 1948), Catholic Patriarch of Lisbon ; Mariano Clemente, Argentine footballer ; Michael Clemente (1908–1987), American mobster ; Nicholas Clemente (1929–2009), American judge ; Paul Clemente, American politician ; Paulo Clemente (born 1983), Portuguese footballer ; Pia Clemente, Filipina-American film producer ; Ramón Clemente (born 1985), Puerto Rican basketball player ; Ramon di Clemente (born 1975), South African Olympic rower ; Roberto Clemente (1934–1972), Puerto Rican baseball player ; Roberto Clemente Jr. (born 1965), Puerto Rican broadcaster and former baseball player, son of Roberto Clemente ; Rosa Clemente (born 1972), American journalist and activist ; Simón de Roxas Clemente y Rubio (1777–1827), a Spanish botanist who used the standard author abbreviation Clemente ; Steve Clemente (1885–1950), Mexican-American actor ; Tim Clemente (born 1960), American counter-terrorism expert ; Enrique Clemente (born 1999), Spanish footballer
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]  Peani (1731–1782), Catholic missionary ; Clemente Polito (died 1606), Italian Catholic bishop ; Clemente Promontorio (1340–1415), Genoese doge ; Clemente Rebora (1885–1957), Italian poet ; Clemente Rojas (born 1952), Colombian boxer ; Clemente Ruiz Nazario (1896–1969), Puerto Rican judge ; Clemente Russo (born 1982), Italian boxer ; Clemente Sánchez (1947–1978), Mexican boxer ; Clemente Sánchez (born 1958), American politician ; Clemente Soto Vélez (1903–1993), Puerto Rican writer and activist ; Clemente Susini (1754–1814), Italian artist and anatomist ; Clemente Tabone (c. undefined 1575–1665), Maltese landowner and militia member ; Clemente Valencia (1968–2011), Mexican wrestler ; Clemente Villaverde (born 1959), Spanish footballer ; Clemente Yerovi (1904–1981), Ecuadoran politician
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]  He is a Christian and worships as a Catholic. He is married with 5 children.
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP] Ancient Diocese of Carpentras  Carpentras ("Lat." dioecesis Carpentoratensis) was a diocese of the Roman Catholic Church in the Provence region (later part of France), from the later Roman Empire until 1801. It was part of the ecclesiastical province under the Metropolitan, the Archbishop of Arles. The bishop was a major figure in the Comtat Venaissin, and a member of the Estates of the Comtat. He was a direct appointee of the pope.
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP]
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Digne  The Diocese of Digne (Latin: "Dioecesis Diniensis"; French: "Diocèse de Digne") is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Catholic Church in France. Erected in the 4th century as the Diocese of Digne, the diocese has been known as the Diocese of Digne–Riez–Sisteron since 1922. The diocese comprises the entire department of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, in the Region of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. The diocese was a suffragan diocese of the Archdiocese of Aix-en-Provence and Arles until 2002 and is now a suffragan diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the metropolitan Archdiocese of Marseille. The Bishop of Digne's cathedra is found in Digne Cathedral at the episcopal see of Digne-les-Bains.
What is the religion of Clemente Isnard? [SEP] William of Villehardouin  William of Villehardouin (; Kalamata, 1211 – 1 May 1278) was the fourth prince of Achaea in Frankish Greece, from 1246 to 1278. The younger son of Prince Geoffrey I, he held the Barony of Kalamata in fief during the reign of his elder brother Geoffrey II. William ruled Achaea as regent for his brother during Geoffrey's military campaigns against the Greeks of Nicaea, who were the principal enemies of his overlord, the Latin Emperor of Constantinople Baldwin II. William succeeded his childless brother in the summer of 1246. Conflicts between Nicaea and Epirus enabled him to complete the conquest of the Morea in about three years. He captured Monemvasia and built three new fortresses, forcing two previously autonomous tribes, the Tzakones and Melingoi, into submission. He participated in the unsuccessful Egyptian crusade of Louis IX of France, who rewarded him with the right to issue currency in the style of French royal coins.  In the early 1250s, William was the most powerful ruler of Frankish Greece. Most neighboring Frankish rulers acknowledged his suzerainty. In 1255, he laid claim to the northern , or third, of the Lordship of Negroponte on the island of Euboea. Although the two other rulers of Negroponte were his vassals, they rejected his claim. They gained the support of Venice, Guy I de la Roche, Lord of Athens, and other Frankish rulers. The conflict developed into a war of succession that caused much destruction of Euboea and mainland Greece. After William's victory in Attica in May 1258, Guy and his allies surrendered. Guy was tried for his disloyalty but was allowed to keep his Achaean fiefs.  A succession crisis in Nicaea prompted the Epirote ruler Michael II Komnenos Doukas to form an anti-Nicaean coalition with William and Manfred of Sicily. In the summer of 1259, William and Michael assembled the bulk of their armies and marched as far as Pelagonia to fight the Nicaeans. The Frankish and Epirote troops could not cooperate effectively, and archers from the enemy camp harassed them continuously. After the Epirotes abandoned their allies unexpectedly, the Nicaeans inflicted a decisive defeat on the Franks. William fled from the battlefield, but he was captured and sent to Nicaea. He was still in prison when Nicaean troops seized Constantinople and destroyed the Latin Empire in July 1261. The triumphant Byzantine emperor Michael VIII Palaiologos released William in return for three southern Morean fortresses in late 1261. The possession of the three forts facilitated further Byzantine expansion, and William was forced to seek external support. With the approval of Baldwin II, he swore fealty to the Angevin king of Sicily, Charles I. William acknowledged Charles and his descendants as his heirs in the Treaty of Viterbo on 24 May 1267. Charles sent troops to Achaea and with their help, William was able to resist Byzantine invasions during the last years of his reign.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]  Józef Roszyński (born August 18, 1962 in Nidzica) is a Polish clergyman and bishop for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Wewak. He was appointed bishop in 2015.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]   Wojciech Roszkowski OOB (born 20 June 1947 in Warsaw) is a Polish nobleman, economic historian and writer, specializing in Polish and European history of the 20th and 21st century. He was a politician and Member of the European Parliament (MEP) in 2004–2009. From 1980 to 1983 he was a member of the independent self-governing trade union Solidarność. From 1990 to 1993 he served as vice-rector of Warsaw School of Economics. He is a fellow of Collegium Invisibile and a signatory of the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism. Under the pseudonym Andrzej Albert, he has published books about 20th-century Polish history, focusing on 1918–1980, as well as a synthesis of the political history of the world post-1945. The books were edited in single and three-band releases, in Polish and English. His book "The World of Christ", a complete history of the world depicted during the lifetime of Jesus Christ, was published in 2016 after over fifty years of work. He is one of Poland's most popular authors. In 2019 "The Shattered Mirror – The Downfall of Western Civilization" was one of Poland's most read books.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]  Franciszek Blachnicki (24 March 1921 – 27 February 1987) was a Polish Roman Catholic priest and the founder of the Light-Life movement - also known as the Oasis Movement - and the Secular Institute of the Immaculate Mother of the Church. He founded several other movements and religious congregations that would address a range of social and ethical issues. These issues included anti-alcoholism and human rights. His movements first came about after starting out as simple retreats designed for both altar servers and families that later began to address a series of issues in Poland at the time. His concern for human rights came during the communist era in Poland as well as his experiences as a prisoner of war during World War II in which he was incarcerated in Auschwitz and other concentration camps under the German Nazi regime. Blachnicki's beatification process opened in Poland in the 1990s and he became titled as a Servant of God upon the cause's commencement. The decisive moment in the process came on 30 September 2015 after Pope Francis confirmed his heroic virtue and titled him as Venerable.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]  person could openly admit their atheism or agnosticism. The initiative aims to promote ideological assertiveness among the unbelievers, checking the presence of believers in the social life and the consolidation and strengthening of cooperation between free thinkers. Many leading Polish media have written dozens of articles about this initiative, causing a discussion on the situation of unbelievers in Poland (Gazeta Wyborcza, Cross-section, Overview, Republic, Newsweek, Tribune, Gazeta Pomorska, Kurier Lubelski, Wirtualna Polska, Życie Warszawy  ), and on the radio TOK FM was a debate about atheism between the academic priest Gregory Michalczyk and the founder and then-president of the Polish Rationalist Association Mariusz Agnosiewicz. After two
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]  army sergeant whose life was spared when Saint Maximilian Kolbe sacrificed his life for Gajowniczek at Auschwitz ; Franciszek Gąsienica Groń (born 1931), Polish Olympic skier ; Franciszek Gąsior (born 1947), Polish Olympic handball player ; Franciszek Grocholski (1730–1792), Polish nobleman and politician ; Franciszek Gruszka (1910–1940), Polish aviator who flew with the RAF during the Battle of Britain ; Franciszek Hodur (1866–1953), Polish prelate of the Polish National Catholic Church ; Franciszek Jamroż (contemporary), Polish politician, former Mayor of Gdańsk; imprisoned for corruption and bribery ; Franciszek Jarecki (born 1931), Polish Air Force aviator who defected to the West with a MIG-15 in 1953 ; Franciszek
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP] 108 Martyrs of World War II  The 108 Martyrs of World War II, known also as the 108 Blessed Polish Martyrs (), were Roman Catholics from Poland killed during World War II by Nazi Germany.  Their liturgical feast day is 12 June. The 108 were beatified on 13 June 1999 by Pope John Paul II in Warsaw, Poland. The group comprises 3 bishops, 79 priests, 7 male religious, 8 female religious, and 11 lay people. There are two parishes named for the 108 Martyrs of World War II in Powiercie in Koło County, and in Malbork, Poland.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP] List of saints of Poland  The following is a list of Roman Catholic saints, blesseds, venerables, servants of God and candidates for sainthood who are considered to be "Polish", although not all of these saints are native-born Poles.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP] Free City of Danzig  The Free City of Danzig (; ; ) was a city-state under the protection of the League of Nations between 1920 and 1939, consisting of the Baltic Sea port of Danzig (now Gdańsk, Poland) and nearly 200 other small localities in the surrounding areas.
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP]
What is the religion of Franciszek Rogaczewski? [SEP] Platform Party (PO). In late 2015, Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz appointed Rostowski as her top political adviser. Vincent-Rostowski has published around 40 academic papers on European enlargement, monetary policy, currency policy and the transformation of post communist economies. He is the author of academic books including, Macroeconomic Instability in Post-Communist Countries" published by Oxford University Press. Rostowski is a believer in free markets, as well as a fiscal and social conservative. Taking a pro-life stance, he believes that in-vitro fertilisation should be banned; he is against same-sex civil unions, believing that the traditional family is a basis of society; and
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]  Arturo Tabera Araoz was born in Barco, near Ávila, Spain. He joined the Congregation of Sons of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in May 1915. He was educated at the Claretian Seminary, and the Pontifical Roman Athenaeum "S. Apollinare" in Rome where he earned a doctorate in canon law.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]  Arturo Tabera Araoz J.C.D. (29 October 1903 – 13 June 1975) was a Spanish Cardinal of the Catholic Church who served as Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for Religious and Secular Institutes.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]  He was ordained on 22 December 1928. He was from 1930 until 1946 a faculty member of the Theological School of Zafra, Badajoz; director of the journal Ilustración del Clero, Madrid; staff member of the journal Commemoratium pro religiosis, Rome; secretary of the prefecture of studies of his congregation; founder of the journal Vida religiosa, Rome; vice-postulator of the cause of beatification of Marcelo Spinola y Maestre, Archbishop of Seville.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]  Pope Pius XII appointed him titular bishop of Lirbe and apostolic administrator of Barbastro, Spain, on 16 February 1946. He was transferred to the diocese of Albacete on 13 May 1950. He attended the Second Vatican Council in Rome. He was promoted to the metropolitan see of Pamplona by Pope Paul VI on 23 July 1968.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]  He was made Cardinal-Priest of San Pietro in Montorio in the consistory of 28 April 1969 by Pope Paul. He was appointed Prefect of the Congregation for Divine Worship on 20 February 1971. Pope Paul appointed him prefect of the Sacred Congregation for Religious and Secular Institutes on 8 September 1973. He died in 1975 in Rome.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP] Arturo Tabera Araoz  Arturo Tabera Araoz (29 October 1903 – 13 June 1975) was a Spanish cardinal of the Catholic Church who served as Prefect of the Sacred Congregation for Religious and Secular Institutes.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP] Ildebrando Antoniutti  Ildebrando Antoniutti (3 August 1898 – 1 August 1974) was an Italian cardinal of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as prefect of the Congregation for Religious from 1963 to 1973, and was elevated to the cardinalate by Pope John XXIII in 1962.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP]
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP] Eduardo Francisco Pironio  Eduardo Francisco Pironio (3 December 1920 – 5 February 1998) was an Argentine Roman Catholic cardinal who served in numerous departments of the Roman Curia from 1975 to 1996. He was named Cardinal-Bishop of Sabina-Poggio in 1995.  On 30 June 2006, the Diocese of Rome began requesting testimonies about the life and sanctity of Cardinal Pironio which opened his cause of canonization and bestowed upon him the posthumous title Servant of God. Pope Francis named him as Venerable on 18 February 2022.
What is the religion of Arturo Tabera Araoz? [SEP] Basilica Minore of Our Lady of Charity  The Basilica Minore of Our Lady of Charity (Spanish: "Basilica Menor de Nuestra Señora de la Caridad"), better known as Agoo Basilica, is a Roman Catholic minor basilica in Agoo, La Union, the Philippines dedicated to Our Lady of Charity. It is the seat of the Santa Monica Parish of the Roman Catholic Diocese of San Fernando de La Union under the Vicariate of St. Francis Xavier (Vicar Forane Raul S. Panay). The diocese of San Fernando La Union is part of the territory of the Archdiocese of Nueva Segovia. The basilica is under the leadership of parish priest Alfonso V. Lacsamana and parish vicar Liberato A. Apusen. It is situated along MacArthur Highway in Agoo, La Union in front of the Jose D. Aspiras Civic Center.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]  Alfred Edward Reid (November 28, 1891 – October 7, 1955) was a Canadian politician. He represented the electoral district of Hants East in the Nova Scotia House of Assembly from 1954 to 1955. He was a member of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party. Born in 1891 at Musquodoboit, Halifax County, Nova Scotia, Reid was a general merchant by career. He married Ruth Emma Kerr in 1913. Reid attempted to enter provincial politics in the 1953 election, and after trailing on election night, a recount resulted in Reid winning the Hants East riding by one vote over Progressive Conservative incumbent Ernest M. Ettinger. Ettinger appealed to the Supreme Court citing voting irregularities, and the election was voided in February 1954. A byelection was held on November 16, 1954, resulting in a tie between Reid and Ettinger which was broken when the returning officer cast the deciding vote for Reid, declaring him elected by one vote. Reid died in office on October 7, 1955.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]  Reid later edited the Orthodox Churchman's Magazine, which was subsequently taken over by John Watkins. The Magazine was hostile to deists, Latitudinarians, Methodists and Unitarians, and its tone was set from the first issue in 1801 by the High Church views of William Stevens. In 1806, however, Reid dropped his Anglican affiliations, joining the Unitarian congregation of Thomas Belsham in Hackney. He contributed unpaid material to the Monthly Repository. In the September 1806 issue of the Repository, an article signed "W. H. R." commented favourably on the abolition of the Holy Roman Empire, and the prospects for universal toleration. Reid went on to abandon the Unitarianism he found too formal. He twice called on the Royal Literary Fund for support, initially in 1810. He died on 3 June 1826.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]  Michael Reid (born 1944) is a Christian evangelist in Essex, England and founder of Peniel Pentecostal Church (aka Michael Reid Ministries). Michael and his late wife Ruth Reid were missionaries travelling the world spreading the gospel of Jesus Christ. They ministered in African countries like Cameroon and planted the vastly successful Peniel Church. He founded Peniel College allowing many students to train and graduate in Theology. He resigned from the role of pastor at Peniel Church in April 2008 after personal issues arose. The Church is now known as Trinity.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]  Rise and Dissolution purported to trace the connections, dating from the 17th century, between religious enthusiasm and secular reform organisations. Reid associated Priestley's rational dissent with the opinions of David Williams, supporter of the Octagon Chapel liturgy and "unconditional philosophical liberty". He tended to blur distinctions between reformers, unbelievers, deists and millenarians, all of whom were accorded a hearing in the Unitarian tradition of unbounded debate. He characterized the "Society of Ancient Deists", who met near Hoxton in the period 1770 to 1790, as "infidel mystics". Reid also described as dangerous the staid deist and political debating clubs run by Williams. In the context of the Corresponding
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]  Ira De Augustine Reid (July 2, 1901 – August 15, 1968 ) was a prominent sociologist and author who wrote extensively on the lives of black immigrants and communities in the United States. He was also influential in the field of educational sociology. He held faculty appointments at Atlanta University, New York University, and Haverford College, one of very few African American faculty members in the United States at white institutions during the era of "separate but equal."
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP]
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP] Eric Sevareid  Arnold Eric Sevareid (November 26, 1912 – July 9, 1992) was an American author and CBS news journalist from 1939 to 1977. He was one of a group of elite war correspondents who were hired by CBS newsman Edward R. Murrow and nicknamed "Murrow's Boys." Sevareid was the first to report the Fall of Paris in 1940, when the city was captured by German forces during World War II.  Sevareid followed in Murrow's footsteps as a commentator on the CBS Evening News for thirteen years, for which he was recognized with Emmy and Peabody Awards.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP] Reed Hastings  Wilmot Reed Hastings Jr. (born October 8, 1960)
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP] Alfred Deakin  Alfred Deakin (3 August 1856 – 7 October 1919) was an Australian politician who served as the second Prime Minister of Australia. He was a leader of the movement for Federation, which occurred in 1901. During his three terms as prime minister over the subsequent decade (1903–1904, 1905–1908, 1909–1910), he played a key role in establishing national institutions.  Deakin was born in Melbourne to middle-class parents. He was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly in 1879, aged 23, additionally working as a barrister and journalist. He held ministerial office sporadically beginning in 1883, serving twice as Attorney-General of Victoria and aligning himself with liberal and radical reformers. In the 1890s Deakin became one of the leading figures in the movement for the federation of the Australian colonies. He was a delegate to the federal conventions and served on the committees that drafted the federal constitution. He later campaigned at a series of referendums and lobbied the British government for its adoption.  After Federation in 1901, Deakin became the inaugural Attorney-General of Australia in the ministry led by his close friend Edmund Barton. He succeeded Barton as prime minister in September 1903. Two subsequent elections in 1903 and 1906 produced an even split between three parties, with Deakin's Liberal Protectionist Party occupying an effective middle ground between the Free Traders and the Australian Labor Party (ALP). He left office in April 1904 following an unproductive first term, but returned in July 1905 and was able to form a functional government with the support of the ALP. He relinquished office again in August 1908.  In 1909, in what became known as the Fusion, Deakin controversially led his supporters into a union with the Free Traders. Their alliance, based on anti-socialism, marked the beginning of a two-party system in federal politics and allowed him to form Australia's first majority government. Deakin regarded his final term as prime minister, from June 1909 to April 1910, as his most productive. However, to his surprise the ALP won a majority in both houses at the 1910 election. He retired from politics in 1913, in the early stages of a degenerative neurological condition that led to his death at the age of 63.  Deakin is regarded as one of Australia's most influential prime ministers. He was the principal architect of the "Australian settlement", the features of which – the White Australia policy, compulsory arbitration, protectionism, state paternalism, and support for the British Empire – formed the basis of Australia's socio-economic framework well into the 20th century.
What is the religion of Alfred Reid? [SEP] Adolph L. Reed Jr.  Adolph Leonard Reed Jr. (born January 14, 1947) is an American professor emeritus of political science at the University of Pennsylvania, specializing in studies of issues of racism and U.S. politics.   He has taught at Yale, Northwestern, and the New School for Social Research and he has written on racial and economic inequality. He is a contributing editor to "The New Republic" and has been a frequent contributor to "The Progressive", "The Nation", and other left-wing publications. He is a founding member of the U.S. Labor Party.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP]  Simon Ntamwana (born 3 June 1946) has been the Roman Catholic archbishop of the Archdiocese of Gitega in Burundi since 1997. Ntamwana was ordained as a priest on 24 March 1974 and from 1988 to 1997 he was the bishop of the diocese in Bujumbura. In 1997 he succeeded Joachim Ruhuna as the archbishop of Gitega. In 2009, he defended Pope Benedict XVI over a controversy on the refusal to give any kind of approval to condoms in the fight against AIDS.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP]   Kimbanguism, officially the Church of Jesus Christ on Earth by His Special Envoy Simon Kimbangu, is a major Christian new religious movement indigenous to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It holds that Simon Kimbangu (1887–1951) was a prophet but shares commonalities with Baptist Christianity. It is headquartered in Nkamba, Kongo Central which was Kimbangu's birthplace and is known as "New Jerusalem". It is estimated that as many as 10 percent of the Congo's population are followers.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP]  Dawn Faith Mackay  (née Mlotshwa, born 16 January 1982 in KwaMashu, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa) is an author, musician, speaker, social activist and the host of her own TV show titled Deep & Meaningful. She started her music career in 2008 working with a local artists in South Africa and has since released her debut EP in 2015 titled "Audience of One". In 2016, she established a TV production company, MYZIZI Productions, named after her daughter Zinhle (Zizi) Grace, who was born around four months premature and died aged three months. in Melbourne, Australia.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP]  Mpadi argued that his movement could only be a church, not a missionary movement in their own land. The movement later came to be known as the "Eglise des Noirs Afrique" (Church of Black people in Africa), with its headquarters at Ntendesi, later Songa-Ntela near Kasangulu, DRC. Mpadi's sermons and religious message emphasized the messianic and prophetic leadership of Simon Kimbangu as the liberator of all Black people in the world. From the mid-70s, though still monotheist he oriented his movement towards more traditional beliefs and history of past African prophets and warriors, no longer referring to Christianity or the Bible. He claimed that the new approach was not in contradiction with Kimbangu, but was Kimbangu's true philosophy. In the 21st Century, there were still a few hundred followers of the movement.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] Frederick Samuel Modise – founder of the International Pentecostal Holiness Church ; Glayton Modise – the International Pentecostal Holiness Church leader
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] Christ the King Cathedral, Gitega  The Christ the King Cathedral () is a religious building belonging to the Catholic Church and is located in Gitega in the province of Gitega in the central part of Burundi.  Follow the Latin or Roman rite and functions as the headquarters of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Gitega (Latin: "Archidioecesis Kitegaensis") that was created on November 10, 1959 by the Bull ""Cum parvulum"" by the Pope John XXIII as part of the ecclesiastical province of Gitega.  Pope John Paul II visited the September 5, 1990 as part of his tour of several African countries. It is under the pastoral responsibility of Archbishop Simon Ntamwana.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Bujumbura  The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Bujumbura () is the Metropolitan See for the Ecclesiastical province of Bujumbura in Burundi.
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] but did not preaching he Bible Students message of exclusively. Besides preaching the imminent arrival of God's kingdom, Kamwana also Booth's messages preached racial equality, equal pay for equal work, and the millennial doctrine that all government but Christ’s would cease, which was considered to be seditious and anticolonial in ideology. Kamwana's movement had no concrete strategy of revolution, although the colonial authorities arrested him after six months of preaching in April 1909. and at first imprisoned him, then deported him to South Africa in 1910.. The Watch Tower churches initiated by Kamwana in northern Nyasaland and which spread to
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] movement indigenous to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It holds that Simon Kimbangu (1887–1951) was a prophet but shares commonalities with Baptist Christianity. It is headquartered in Nkamba, Kongo Central which was Kimbangu's birthplace and is known as "New Jerusalem". It is estimated that as many as 10 percent of the Congo's population are followers. The Pew Center estimates the Congo's population of "Other Christians" at 260,000. Fewer than 0.1 percent of the population are Orthodox Christians. Christianity in the Democratic Republic of the Congo Christianity is the majority religion of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and is
What is the religion of Simon Ntamwana? [SEP] Dawn Faith Dawn Faith Mackay (née Mlotshwa, born 16 January 1982 in KwaMashu, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa) is an author, musician, speaker, social activist and the host of her own TV show titled "Deep & Meaningful". She started her music career in 2008 working with a local artists in South Africa and has since released her debut EP in 2015 titled "Audience of One". In 2016, she established a TV production company, MYZIZI Productions, named after her daughter Zinhle (Zizi) Grace, who was born around four months premature and died aged three months. in Melbourne, Australia. Mackay's love of singing started
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]  Kenneth Adrian Raine Kennedy (June 26, 1930 – April 23, 2014) was an anthropologist who studied at the University of California, Berkeley. He was Professor Emeritus of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Anthropology and Asian Studies in the Division of Biological Sciences at Cornell University. Among his areas of interest have been forensic anthropology and human skeletal biology. He died in Ithaca, New York on April 23, 2014.
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]  a professor of the history of the Netherlands. In 2009 he succeeded professor Piet de Rooy, head of the section of the history of the Netherlands. As of 1 October 2015, Kennedy is Dean of University College Utrecht. Kennedy takes a special interest in post-war Dutch history. Because of his Christian belief he considers himself a Christian historian although he is reserved to point out how God is guiding human history. Politically, he characterizes himself as an independent. However, in the presidential campaign of 2004 he was in favor of John Kerry, the presidential candidate of the Democrats. James Kennedy is married to Simone Kennedy-Doornbos, a local Dutch politician for the ChristianUnion in Amersfoort. They have three children. The Kennedy family is a member of the Reformed Churches in the Netherlands (Liberated), an orthodox reformed denomination.
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]  Notes
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]  Ethne Kennedy (November 13, 1921 – March 13, 2005) was an American religious worker and activist. Kennedy was the daughter of parents who had emigrated to the United States from Ireland early in the twentieth century; among her siblings was the literary scholar Sighle Kennedy. A member of the Society of Helpers, she was the founding president of the National Assembly of Religious Women, and after the Second Vatican Council worked to ensure that women could participate fully in the workings of the Roman Catholic Church. She also was editor of Probe, the newsletter put out by the organization of sisters' councils in the United
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]  Kennedy currently resides in Spokane, Washington with his wife, Selena, whom he married on June 14, 2003. According to Alter Bridge lead guitarist Mark Tremonti, Kennedy is an atheist, although in an article titled Losing My Religion from a November 2010 issue of Kerrang! magazine, Kennedy said he places himself "somewhere in the middle" between being an atheist and a Christian. In an interview on the Blairing Out with Eric Blair Show at NAMM 2009, Kennedy mentioned that despite being raised in a Christian household, he is not a religious person and he does not believe in any organized religion. In an interview with CraveOnline, he said "I would consider myself a part of the growing segment of people who question authority and scrutinize concepts that no longer seem as
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP]
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP] Ken Anderson (wrestler)  Kenneth Anderson (born March 6, 1976) is an American professional wrestler. Anderson is known for his tenure with WWE from 2005 to 2009 under the ring name Mr. Kennedy, and his work in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling as Mr. Anderson from 2010 to 2016. He is currently signed to Top Rank Boxing as their announcer  Anderson started his career on the independent circuit, until he was signed to a development contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), and was assigned to Ohio Valley Wrestling, WWE's farm territory. He was promoted to the main roster in 2005. One year after his debut, he won the WWE United States Championship, which he held for 42 days. At WrestleMania 23, he won the 2007 Money in the Bank briefcase with a title shot for the promotion's world title. However, he dropped the briefcase to Edge after suffering an injury. Kennedy would remain with the promotion until 2009.  In 2010, Anderson signed with Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA, now Impact Wrestling), where he competed under the ring names Mr. Anderson and Ken Anderson. In 2011, he would win the TNA World Heavyweight Championship twice during a feud with the villainous group Immortal. After losing the title, he would remain with the promotion as a mid-card wrestler, joining the villainous faction Aces & Eights at one point, until he departed TNA in 2016. In 2019, Anderson came back to pro wrestling programming when he worked for National Wrestling Alliance (NWA).  In 2016, Anderson opened a wrestling school called The Academy in Minneapolis, Minnesota, along with Shawn Daivari, Molly Holly, Ariya Daivari, and Arik Cannon. He has also worked occasionally as an actor and starred as Master Chief Petty Officer Carter Holt in the WWE Studios production "" in 2009.
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP] Kenneth O'Donnell  Kenneth Patrick O'Donnell (March 4, 1924 – September 9, 1977) was an American political consultant and the special assistant and appointments secretary to President John F. Kennedy from 1961 until Kennedy's assassination in November 1963. O'Donnell was a close friend of President Kennedy and his younger brother Robert F. Kennedy, and was part of the group of Kennedy's close advisers dubbed the “Irish Mafia.”  O'Donnell also served as an aide to President Lyndon B. Johnson from 1963 to 1965. He later served as an adviser to Robert Kennedy's 1968 presidential campaign.
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP] Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis  Jacqueline Lee Kennedy Onassis ( ; July 28, 1929 – May 19, 1994) was an American socialite, writer, photographer, and book editor who served as first lady of the United States from 1961 to 1963, as the wife of President John F. Kennedy. A popular first lady, she endeared the American public with her devotion to her family, dedication to the historic preservation of the White House, the campaigns she led to preserve and restore historic landmarks and architecture along with her interest in American history, culture and arts. During her lifetime, she was regarded as an international icon for her unique fashion choices.  After graduating with a Bachelor of Arts in French literature from George Washington University in 1951, Bouvier started working for the "Washington Times-Herald" as an inquiring photographer. The following year, she met then-Congressman John Kennedy at a dinner party in Washington. He was elected to the Senate that same year, and the couple married on September 12, 1953, in Newport, Rhode Island. They had four children, two of whom died in infancy. Following her husband's election to the presidency in 1960, Kennedy was known for her highly publicized restoration of the White House and emphasis on arts and culture as well as for her style, she also travelled to many countries where her fluency in foreign languages and history made her very popular. At age 31, she was the third-youngest first lady of the United States when her husband was inaugurated.  After the assassination and funeral of her husband in 1963, Kennedy and her children largely withdrew from public view. In 1968, she married Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, which caused controversy. Following Onassis's death in 1975, she had a career as a book editor in New York City, first at Viking Press and then at Doubleday, and worked to restore her public image. Even after her death, she ranks as one of the most popular and recognizable first ladies in American history, and in 1999, she was listed as one of Gallup's Most-Admired Men and Women of the 20th century. She died in 1994 and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery alongside President Kennedy. Surveys of historians conducted periodically by the Siena College Research Institute since 1982 have consistently found Kennedy Onassis to rank among the most highly regarded first ladies by the assessments of historians.
What is the religion of Kenneth Kennedy? [SEP] John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)  John Neely Kennedy (born November 21, 1951) is an American lawyer and politician who has served as the junior United States senator from Louisiana since 2017. He served as the Louisiana State Treasurer from 2000 to 2017. Kennedy has been a member of the Republican Party since 2007; he was a Democrat from 1988 to 2007.  Born in Centreville, Mississippi, Kennedy graduated from Vanderbilt University and the University of Virginia School of Law before attending Magdalen College, Oxford. He was a member of Governor Buddy Roemer's staff before running for state attorney general in the 1991 election. In 1999, he was elected state treasurer; he was reelected to that position in 2003, 2007, 2011, and 2015. Kennedy was an unsuccessful candidate for U.S. Senate in 2004 and 2008. In 2007, he switched parties and became a Republican.  In 2016, when U.S. Senator David Vitter opted not to seek reelection, Kennedy ran for Senate again. He finished first in the November nonpartisan blanket primary and defeated Democrat Foster Campbell 61–39% in the December runoff. He was sworn in on January 3, 2017. Kennedy was one of six Republican senators to object to the certification of Arizona's electors in the 2020 presidential election.
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]  Guadalupe Missionaries (Misioneros de Guadalupe, official name: Instituto de Santa María de Guadalupe para las Misiones Extranjeras), also known by their abbreviation MG, is a Roman Catholic missionary society in Mexico. It was founded on October 7, 1949. The headquarters are located in Mexico City The members of the Society are secular and devote their lives to the mission Ad gentes. The first Superior General of the Society was Bishop Alonso M. Escalante, a Mexican who worked previously for years in China and Bolivia.
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]  The community was founded in 1834 by Dominican missionary Félix Caballero as Misión de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe del Norte, making it the last mission established in the Californias. Caballero had to abandon the mission in 1840, under attacks from the indigenous peoples. From 1905 to 1910, a mixture of Spiritual Christian faiths, mostly Pryguny from Transcaucasia, South Russia, settled in 4 farming colonies near Ensenada, Baja California Norte Territory, Mexico. Guadalupe was the main colony of about 20+ square miles purchased in 1905. Most owned or rented land communally. Not all were ethnic Russians, and were of various folk-Protestant (non-Orthodox) faiths. A few Russian Orthodox immigrants, had no priest or church, lived in Ensenada and were confused with the Spiritual Christians. To make
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]   Mission Guadalupe was established by the Jesuit Everardo Helen in 1720, at the Cochimí settlement of Huasinapí in the Sierra de la Giganta about 40 kilometers west of Mulegé, Baja California Sur, Mexico. The mission went through a typical trajectory of demographic decline experienced by the Baja California missions, as the neophyte population dwindled under the impact of Old World diseases. The mission was abandoned in the Dominican period, in 1795, when its residents were transferred to La Purísima. Surviving traces of Mission Guadalupe include building walls, dams, and graveyards. Mission site: 26.91931°N, -112.40572°W Road access: travel west from Mulegé about 25 miles (40 km) [intersection is at 26.76333°N, -112.26203°W] then north about 12 miles (19 km). The road is rough but passable.
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]  Wisdom. Kevin Diaz, chief executive of the Boy Scouts of Trinidad and head of civil service training for the government, visited the fair, learned more about the LDS Church and was later baptized. After he was baptized, he learned missionaries could only stay for short periods of time using tourist visas. Through government contacts, he arranged for as many as ten missionaries to stay for a period of one year at a time, and in special cases, longer. For 14 years and prior to retiring, he was manager of organization planning and development for British West Indian Airways. In addition to work and scouting, he served
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]  occurred. Days later, Fray Francisco de Bustamante, local head of the Franciscan order, delivered a sermon denouncing the native belief and believers. He expressed concern that the Catholic Archbishop was promoting a superstitious regard for an indigenous image: "The devotion at the chapel... to which they have given the name Guadalupe was prejudicial to the Indians because they believed that the image itself worked miracles, contrary to what the missionary friars had been teaching them, and because many were disappointed when it did not."  Archbishop Montúfar opened an inquiry into the matter at which the Franciscans repeated their position that the image encouraged idolatry and superstition, and four witnesses testified
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP]
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP] Catholic Church and the Age of Discovery  The Catholic Church during the Age of Discovery inaugurated a major effort to spread Christianity in the New World and to convert the indigenous peoples of the Americas and other indigenous peoples. The evangelical effort was a major part of, and a justification for, the military conquests of European powers such as Portugal, Spain, and France. Christian missions to the indigenous peoples ran hand-in-hand with the colonial efforts of Catholic nations. In the Americas and other colonies in Asia, and Africa, most missions were run by religious orders such as the Franciscans, Dominicans, Augustinians, and Jesuits. In Mexico, the early systematic evangelization by mendicants came to be known as the "Spiritual Conquest of Mexico".  Antonio de Montesinos, a Dominican friar on the island of Hispaniola, was the first member of the clergy to publicly denounce all forms of enslavement and oppression of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Theologians such as Francisco de Vitoria and Bartolomé de las Casas drew up theological and philosophical bases for the defense of the human rights of the colonized native populations, thus creating the basis of international law, regulating the relationships between nations. Important contemporary ecclesiastical documents taking a strong stance on enslaving or despoiling the indigenous peoples of the Americas was the ecclesiastical letter "Pastorale officium" and the superseding encyclical "Sublimis Deus".  In the early years, most mission work was undertaken by the religious orders. Over time it was intended that a normal church structure would be established in the mission areas. The process began with the formation of special jurisdictions, known as apostolic prefectures and apostolic vicariates. These developing churches eventually graduated to regular diocesan status with the appointment of a local bishop. After decolonization, this process increased in pace as church structures altered to reflect new political-administrative realities.
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP] Church of Our Lady of Guadalupe (Puerto Vallarta)  The Church of Our Lady of Guadalupe, known locally as the Iglesia de Nuestra Señora de Guadalupe, is a Catholic place of worship in Puerto Vallarta on the Pacific Coast of Mexico. It is open daily, with services in English available on Saturdays and mass in both Spanish and English on Sundays. Her feast day on 12 December is also the date of her first apparition. To celebrate this festival (fiesta), many individuals in the Mexican community display altars in their homes consisting of a painting of Our Lady of Guadalupe surrounded by flowers, candles, and other individual touches.
What is the religion of Guadalupe Missionaries? [SEP] Our Lady of Guadalupe  Our Lady of Guadalupe (), also known as the Virgin of Guadalupe (), is a Catholic title of Mary, mother of Jesus associated with a series of five Marian apparitions, which are believed to have occurred in December 1531, and a venerated image on a cloak enshrined within the Basilica of Our Lady of Guadalupe in Mexico City. The basilica is the most-visited Catholic shrine in the world, and the world's third most-visited sacred site.  Pope Leo XIII granted the image a decree of canonical coronation on 8 February 1887 and was pontifically crowned on 12 October 1895.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP]  John Richardson (born 1951) is a professor of philosophy at New York University. He is best known for his books on Heidegger and Nietzsche.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP]  John Richardson (1667–1753) was an English Quaker minister and autobiographer.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP]  J. I. Richardson was a Baptist Pastor who served as a missionary in India through the Canadian Baptist Ministries. Richardson came to India in 1945 and after more than a decade and half he was elected President of Convention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars in 1958 In the continuing year, Richardson was replaced by Rev. A. B. Masilamani. After a period of missionary service in India, Richardson returned to Canada and in 1961 became Dean of Carey Hall at the University of British Columbia. In addition to his responsibilities as Dean of Carey Hall, Richardson was also Chaplain to the University of British Columbia as well as Lecturer of Oriental Religions.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP]  John Richardson was born in 1667, probably in the village of North Cave, East Riding of Yorkshire, where his father, William Richardson (1614–1679), a shepherd, had been converted to Quakerism by William Dewsberry or Dewsbury in about 1652. He was twelve when his father died, leaving his mother with a livestock farm to run and five children. John had one older sister, who died about 1682, and three younger brothers, of whom the youngest was born about 1676.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP]  John Richardson (September 30, 1886 – January 24, 1976) was an American attorney and political figure from Massachusetts.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP] John Richardson (Quaker)  John Richardson (1667–1753) was an English Quaker minister and autobiographer.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP] John Richardson (orientalist)  John Richardson (1740/41–1795), FAS of Wadham College, Oxford, was the editor of the first Persian-Arabic-English dictionary in 1778–1780. His seminal work on Persian grammar, written in collaboration with Sir William Jones, was noteworthy amongst the early works on this subject; and it remains significant in the context of that philological foundation from which all subsequent grammatical studies were to evolve.  Richardson's scholarly compilation was organized in a format similar to Mesgnien-Meninski's "Thesaurus Linguarum Orientalis, Turcicæ, Arabicæ, Persicæ" (1680).<ref name="clarke276-277"/>  Each book in the two-volume set was sold separately; many more of the first part (the Persian-Arabic-English volume) were sold than the second part (the English-Persian-Arabic volume). When booksellers found themselves with an overstock of first edition broken sets, a greater number of copies of the second edition's first book were printed.<ref name="clarke276-277"/>  Richardson's ground-breaking scholarship was more broadly disseminated in Charles Wilkins' several revised versions of the dictionary. Subsequent work by the 19th century philologists Francis Johnson, Francis Joseph Steingass and others ensured that Richardson's name continued to be well known as an orientalist and as a scholar.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP] John Richardson  John Richardson may refer to:
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP] John Richardson (translator)  John Richardson (born Linton, Cambridgeshire, c. 1564 – 1625) was a Biblical scholar and a Master of Trinity College, Cambridge from 1615 until his death.
What is the religion of John Richardson? [SEP] J. R. Illingworth  John Richardson Illingworth (26 June 1848 – 22 August 1915) was an English Anglican priest, philosopher, and theologian. He was a notable member of the set of liberal Anglo-Catholic theologians based in Oxford, and he contributed two chapters to the influential "Lux Mundi".
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP]  Sharma, who hails from a farming family in the village of Korokoro in Nadroga-Navosa Province, was raised as a Hindu but converted to Christianity after meeting Ana, whom he married in 1985.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP]  Gabriel Sharma is an Anglican Bishop in Fiji. On 1 May 2005, he became the first Indo-Fijian to be consecrated as an Anglican Bishop, the first ethnic Indian Bishop in the Province of Aotearoa, of which Fiji forms a part, and the first Bishop specifically assigned to Fiji's Western Division, when he was installed as Bishop of Viti Levu West. On 10 April 2005, in a service at Suva's Holy Trinity Cathedral, he was consecrated together with Apimeleki Qiliho, who became Bishop of Vanua Levu, and Dr Winston Halapua, who was installed as Bishop of the Diocese of Polynesia, which covers New Zealand. He resigned his See in 2013, but returned in 2017.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP]  Arvind Sharma is the Birks Professor of Comparative Religion at McGill University. Sharma's works focus on Hinduism, philosophy of religion. In editing books his works include Our Religions and Women in World Religions, Feminism in World Religions was selected as a Choice Outstanding Academic Book (1999).
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP]  India and although he does have some feeling for his religion, he is by no means devout. However, as a resident of the US, post 9/11, he says he felt he had to do something in the battle to represent Islam. He declares that his religion was hijacked by extremists who preach violence and hatred, and he is not referring to Fox TV or George Bush. He means the radical clerics who have become the face of Islam in the West. Sharma sought to prove that his religion was a peaceful and loving one, and in effect, that not all Muslims are terrorists. Some are even gay."
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP]  For Unity of Faiths: May He Who is the Father in Heaven of the Christians, Holy One of the Jews, Allah of the Muhammadans, Buddha of the Buddhists, Tao of the Chinese, Ahura Mazda of the Zoroastrians and Brahman of the Hindus lead us from the unreal to the Real, from darkness to light, from disease and death to immortality. May the All-Loving Being manifest Himself unto us, and grant us abiding understanding and all-consuming divine love. Peace, Peace. Peace be unto all.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP] Simon Schama  Sir Simon Michael Schama (; born 13 February 1945) is an English historian specialising in art history, Dutch history, Jewish history, and French history.  He first came to public attention with his history of the French Revolution titled "", published in 1989. Schama was knighted in the 2018 Queen's Birthday Honours List.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP] Ram Setu (film)  Ram Setu () is a 2022 Indian Hindi-language action-adventure film directed by Abhishek Sharma. The film stars Akshay Kumar, Jacqueline Fernandez, Nushrratt Bharuccha and Satya Dev and follows an archeologist who is investigating the nature of Ram Setu, also known as Adam's Bridge.  The film was announced in November 2020 with principal photography commencing in Mumbai on 30 March 2021. Production suffered setbacks and delays amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Filming resumed in October 2021 and wrapped in January 2022 taking place near Ooty, Daman and Diu and Mumbai.  "Ram Setu" was theatrically released on 25 October 2022 during Diwali festivities and opened to negative reviews from critics. The film grossed 93 crore at the worldwide box office, failing to recoup its 150 crore budget.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP] List of people who have converted to Anglicanism  The following is a list of notable individuals who converted to Anglicanism from a different religion or no religion.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP] The Good Karma Hospital  The Good Karma Hospital is a medical drama series produced by Tiger Aspect Productions for ITV about a disillusioned doctor, Ruby Walker, who travels to South India hoping to make a fresh start. It stars Amanda Redman, Amrita Acharia, James Krishna Floyd, and Neil Morrissey. The series is shot in Unawatuna in southern Sri Lanka, Thiranagama Golden Beach Restaurant and some other places in Galle District.  "The Good Karma Hospital" was recommissioned for a second and a third series. Filming for the second series started in August 2017 and it was broadcast from 18 March 2018. Series 3 first aired in October 2019 in Australia, with a UK premiere in March 2020. A fourth series started airing in the UK on 23 January 2022. In November 2022 it was announced that the show has been cancelled after its fourth series.
What is the religion of Gabriel Sharma? [SEP] Arjun Rampal  Arjun Rampal (born 26 November 1972) is an Indian actor, model, film producer and television personality who works in Hindi films. He made his acting debut in Rajiv Rai's romance film "Pyaar Ishq Aur Mohabbat" (2001) and has since gone on to act in more than 40 films. He has received several awards including the National Film Award for Best Supporting Actor and the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in "Rock On!!".<ref name="NATIONAL FILM AWARD" /><ref name="FILMFARE AWARD" />  He has enacted lead roles in romance films including "Deewaanapan" (2001), "Dil Hai Tumhaara" (2002), "Dil Ka Rishta" (2003), "Vaada" (2005) and "I See You" (2006), action films "Asambhav" (2004) and "D-Day" (2013), thrillers "Yakeen" (2005) and "Roy" (2015), socio-political "Chakravyuh" (2012), crime drama "Inkaar" (2013) and biopic "Daddy" (2017). The year 2002 marked a turning point for Rampal when he was cast in "Aankhen", proving to be his first commercial success. His other commercially successful films include "Don" (2006), "Om Shanti Om" (2007), "Housefull" (2010), "Raajneeti" (2010), "Ra.One" (2011), "" (2016) and "Nail Polish" (2021).  Rampal became a film producer with "I See You" (2006) under his banner, Chasing Ganesha Films, and produced the biopic "Daddy" (2017), for which he also co-wrote the screenplay.
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP]  representation of his theatral drama titled San Paolo, interpreted by the Italian actor and mason Giovanni Emanuel. His book Cuore has been considered for decades an educative textbook largely read and studied in the Italian public schools. Some literary critics noted it substituted the traditional Roman Catholic doctrine with a lay civil religion where heroes took the place of Christian martyrs, the Statuto Albertino displaced the Gospels, the Church, its believers and the Ten Commandments were respectively deleted in favour of the State, the figure of the citizen and the protection of the Italian codes of laws. The Grand Orient of Italy recognized De Amicis as one of his most notable past members.
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP]  Carlo Maria Curci (1810 in Naples – June 8, 1891 in Florence) was an Italian theologian from Naples.
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP]  Carlo was born in Turin, Italy on April 20, 1954, and later completed his studies in philosophy and theology at the Pontifical Salesian University. On May 26, 1984 he was ordained a priest in Cuorgne for the Salesians of Don Bosco, and later obtained an academic degree in materials science with a specialization in literary arts at the University of Turin in 1989. He held numerous positions in the administrative academic when he became a professor of theoretical philosophy at the Pontifical Salesian University. He later became a coordinator of the Secretariat Relations Students and chaplain of the University from 1986 to 1998. During his job as a coordinator, he was appointed secretary of the Pontifical Commission for the Cultural Heritage of the Church in 1995.
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP]  Conflict between the Church and Italy" (Il Moderno Dissidio tra la Chiesa e l'Italia, published in 1878) he called for the separation of church and state in Italy. This was followed by "The New Italy and The Old Zealots" (La Nuova Italia ed i Vecchi Zelanti, published in 1881), another attack on the Vatican policy; and by his "Royal Vatican" (Vaticano Regio, published in 1883), in which he accuses the Vatican of selling sacred objects and declares that secularism came from the false principles accepted by the Curia. Curci's work in Naples eventually drew him to Christian Socialism. He was condemned in Rome, and in a letter to The Times (September 10, 1884),
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP]  Curci joined the Society of Jesus in 1826, and was devoted to the education and care of the poor and prisoners. Curci became one of the first editors of the Jesuit periodical, La Civiltà Cattolica. He later wrote for Vincenzo Gioberti, Antonio Rosmini-Serbati and other advocates for reform; Cerci wrote a preface to Gioberti's Primato (1843), but dissented from his Prolegomena. In the 1870s, Curci delivered a course on Christian philosophy in Florence and published several Scriptural works. In his edition of the New Testament, Curci harshly criticized Italian clergy for neglecting to study Scripture. In the meantime, he began to attack the Vatican for its role in politics. In his work "The
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP] Curtis Sliwa  Curtis Sliwa (; born March 26, 1954) is an American activist, radio talk show host and founder and chief executive officer of the Guardian Angels, a nonprofit organization for unarmed crime prevention. Sliwa was the Republican nominee for the 2021 New York City mayoral election, which he lost to Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams.
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP] Tony Curtis  Tony Curtis (born Bernard Schwartz; June 3, 1925September 29, 2010) was an American actor whose career spanned six decades, achieving the height of his popularity in the 1950s (Kansas Raiders, 1950) and early 1960s. He acted in more than 100 films, in roles covering a wide range of genres. In his later years, Curtis made numerous television appearances.  He achieved his first major recognition as a dramatic actor in "Sweet Smell of Success" (1957) with co-star Burt Lancaster. The following year he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor for "The Defiant Ones" (1958) alongside Sidney Poitier (who was also nominated in the same category). This was followed by the comedies "Some Like It Hot" and "Operation Petticoat" in 1959. In 1960, Curtis played a supporting role in the epic historical drama "Spartacus".  His stardom and film career declined considerably after 1960. His most significant dramatic part came in 1968 when he starred in the true-life drama "The Boston Strangler". Curtis also took on the role of the Ukrainian Cossack Andrei in the historical action romance epic "Taras Bulba" in 1962 and starred in the ITC TV series "The Persuaders!", with Curtis playing American millionaire Danny Wilde. The series ran for twenty-four episodes.  Curtis is the father of actresses Kelly Curtis and Jamie Lee Curtis by his first wife, actress Janet Leigh, and actresses Allegra Curtis and Alexandra Curtis by his second wife Christine Kaufmann.<ref> </ref>
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP] Curtis Warren  Curtis Francis Warren (also known as Cocky; is an English gangster and drugs trafficker who was formerly Interpol's Target One and was once listed on "The Sunday Times Rich List".
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP] Deaths in September 2014  The following is a list of notable deaths in September 2014.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What is the religion of Carlo Curis? [SEP] Curtis Wright IV  Curtis Wright IV (born 1949) is an American former government official known for his role in the Food and Drug Administration's approval of OxyContin for Purdue Pharma in 1995, followed by his subsequent employment by the company, which led to portrayals in films and reports in nonfiction books, magazines, and news media outlets of his alleged role as one of the key figures in the current opioid epidemic in the United States. Wright was implicated in a criminal conspiracy outlined in a 2006 United States Department of Justice review document that was first made public in Purdue Pharma's 2019 bankruptcy proceedings. Although that case was settled in a 2007 plea agreement deal, members of United States Congress have requested the full 2006 documentation from the Department of Justice with the goal of opening a new case based upon the evidence then gathered. Parts of Wright's sworn depositions in 2003 and 2018 have internal contradictions and differ from documentary evidence described the 2003–2006 U.S. Federal Government investigation into Purdue Pharma.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP]  sons of Anthony Trollope, the novelist, were admitted to St Columba's in 1858, but were withdrawn the following year after John Gwynn had sent one of them home in disgrace, accused of a serious misdemeanour. John continued studying while working. He took his MA in 1854 and became a Bachelor of Divinity in 1861. After taking holy orders he spent the next twenty years (1863 to 1883) working as a clergyman in County Donegal and County Londonderry. He was much involved in the process of "disestablishment" of the Church of Ireland, which took place in 1869. Simultaneously he was preparing to take his Doctorate
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP]  John Gwynn (1827 in Larne – 1917 in Dublin) was an Irish Syriacist. He was Regius Professor of Divinity at Trinity College, Dublin (the University of Dublin) from 1888 to 1907.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP]   John Gwynn (1713 – 28 February 1786) was an English architect and civil engineer, who became one of the founder members of the Royal Academy in 1768. He advocated greater control over planning in London, for which he produced detailed suggestions. His buildings include Magdalen Bridge and the Covered Market in Oxford, and several bridges over the River Severn.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP]  John Gwynn (1827-1917) was the eldest son of the Reverend Stephen Gwynne (1792-1873). The Gwynne family had been settled in Ulster since the 17th century. The spelling of the family surname had varied throughout the earlier years; it was John Gwynn, the subject of this article, who settled on "Gwynn" with no "e". John’s grandfather John Gwynne (1761-1852) had studied at Trinity College, Dublin. after taking a degree in Divinity he was ordained and became Rector of Kilroot near Carrickfergus, County Antrim. His elder son Stephen (1792-1873), John Gwynn’s father, followed a similar career route, graduating from Trinity College, Dublin and becoming Rector of Larne,
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP]  Divinity from Trinity, which he achieved in 1880. Then in 1883 he returned to Trinity College as a Divinity Lecturer; five years later he was appointed Regius Professor of Divinity. A meticulous scholar and linguist, John had mastered Latin, Greek and Hebrew while an undergraduate student, and later taught himself Syriac. He studied Syriac while commuting by train between Ulster and Dublin, partly in order to give himself some mental occupation during the journey. Over the years he published numerous learned articles. His greatest work, which took him twenty years to complete, was a landmark annotated edition of a ninth century Irish manuscript written
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP] Eirwen Gwynn  Eirwen Meiriona St John Gwynn ( Williams; ; 1 December 1916 – 26 January 2007) was a Welsh nationalist, writer, teacher and physicist. Born in Liverpool, she read physics at the University College of North Wales and later earned a Doctor of Philosophy degree in that field in 1942. Gwynn taught physics at Rhyl Grammar School and later worked as an assistant account at the Government Exchequer and Audit Department. She then worked as a full-time lecturer for the Workers' Educational Association and was a freelance writer who created 1,500 works on social development and science in the English and Welsh printed press. Gwynn also authored multiple books and short stories, won awards during her career, promoted the Welsh language by being a member of four committees and served as president of two societies.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP] J. Gwyn Griffiths  John Gwyn Griffiths (7 December 1911 – 15 June 2004) was a Welsh poet, Egyptologist and nationalist political activist who spent the largest span of his career lecturing at Swansea University.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP] Stephen Gwynn  Stephen Lucius Gwynn (13 February 1864 – 11 June 1950) was an Irish journalist, biographer, author, poet and Protestant Nationalist politician. As a member of the Irish Parliamentary Party he represented Galway city as its Member of Parliament from 1906 to 1918. He served as a British Army officer in France during World War I and was a prominent proponent of Irish involvement in the Allied war effort. He founded the Irish Centre Party in 1919, but his moderate nationalism was eclipsed by the growing popularity of Sinn Féin.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP] Tony Gwynn  Anthony Keith Gwynn Sr. (May 9, 1960 – June 16, 2014), nicknamed "Mr. Padre", was an American professional baseball right fielder, who played 20 seasons (1982–2001) in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the San Diego Padres. The left-handed hitting Gwynn won eight batting titles in his career, tied for the most in National League (NL) history. He is considered one of the best and most consistent hitters in baseball history. Gwynn had a .338 career batting average, never hitting below .309 in any full season. He was a 15-time All-Star, recognized for his skills both on offense and defense with seven Silver Slugger Awards and five Gold Glove Awards. Gwynn was the rare player in his era that stayed with a single team his entire career, and he played in the only two World Series appearances in San Diego's franchise history. He was inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 2007, his first year of eligibility.  Gwynn attended San Diego State University (SDSU), where he played both college baseball and basketball for the Aztecs. He was an all-conference player in both sports in the Western Athletic Conference (WAC), but was honored as an All-American in baseball. Gwynn was selected by the Padres in the third round of the 1981 MLB draft, as the 58th overall pick. He made his major-league debut the following year, and captured his first batting title in 1984, when San Diego advanced to its first-ever World Series. A poor fielder in college, Gwynn's work on his defense was rewarded in 1986, when he received his first Gold Glove. The following year, he won the first of three consecutive batting titles. Beginning in 1990, Gwynn endured four straight seasons which ended prematurely due to injuries, particular to his left knee. However, he experienced a resurgence with four straight batting titles starting in 1994, when he batted a career-high .394 in a strike-shortened season. Gwynn played in his second World Series in 1998, before reaching the 3,000-hit milestone the following year. He played two more seasons, hampered by injuries in both, and retired after the 2001 season with 3,141 career hits.  A contact hitter, Gwynn excelled at hitting the ball to the opposite field. After meeting Hall of Famer Ted Williams in 1992, Gwynn became more adept at pulling the ball and using the entire field, as well as hitting for more power. In the early years of his career, he was also a threat to steal bases. Widely considered the greatest player in Padres history, Gwynn regularly accepted less money to remain with the small-market team. After he retired from playing, the Padres retired his No. 19 in 2004. Gwynn became the head baseball coach at his alma mater, and also spent time as a baseball analyst. He died of salivary gland cancer in 2014 at the age of 54.
What is the religion of John Gwynn? [SEP] Richard Gwyn  Richard Gwyn (ca. 1537 – 15 October 1584), also known by his anglicised name, Richard White, was a Welsh teacher at illegal and underground schools and a Bard who wrote both Christian and satirical poetry in the Welsh language. A Roman Catholic during the reign of Queen Elizabeth I of England, Gwyn was martyred by being hanged, drawn and quartered for high treason at Wrexham in 1584. He was canonised by Pope Paul VI in 1970 as one of the Forty Martyrs of England and Wales. Since its creation in 1987, St. Richard Gwyn has been the Patron Saint of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Wrexham. Along with fellow lay martyr St. Margaret Clitherow, Gwyn is the co-patron of the Latin Mass Society of England and Wales.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]  Joseph Schubert (24 June 1890 &ndash; 4 April 1969) was a Romanian cleric and a titular bishop of the Roman Catholic Church.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]  Joseph Schubert (1889 - 7 March 1952) was a Canadian politician, who served on Montreal City Council from 1924 to 1939. Originally from Romania, Schubert was a prominent labour unionist in the city, and was the only Labour Party representative on Montreal's city council. One of his first prominent actions as a city councillor was a speech protesting police harassment of participants in the city's 1924 May Day parade. In 1931, he built a public bathhouse at the corner of Bagg and St. Lawrence, which still stands today as the Schubert Bath (official French name: Bain Schubert). He served for three months as the city's acting mayor, commencing August 29, 1927, under mayor Médéric Martin. (Despite the title "acting mayor", however, he was never the city's official leader; in modern terms, his role would be more accurately understood as that of a deputy mayor or a mayor pro tem.) Until the appointment of Michael Applebaum as interim mayor in 2012, he was the highest ranking Jewish official in the history of Montreal's municipal government.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]  Born to an ethnic German family in Bucharest, he studied theology at Innsbruck, becoming doctor of theology and being ordained a priest in 1916. After returning to Romania, he was assigned as parish priest in Caramurat, and in 1931 as a priest attached to the Bucharest cathedral. He also taught at the theological seminary in his native city. Following the 1949 arrest of Anton Durcovici by the authorities of the new Communist regime, he was made Apostolic Administrator of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Bucharest, being consecrated titular bishop of Ceramus by Gerald Patrick O'Hara in June 1950. Arrested in February
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]  society"). It was originally affiliated to a teachers' association, to which its 86 founding members belonged. The reference to Franz Schubert was significant in that Schubert was from a family of teachers, himself having been at one time a teacher. In 1870 the choir left the teachers' association, and was renamed Schubertbund. (In 1922, to distinguish the choir from others with a similar name, it became the Wiener Schubertbund.) He directed the choir until 1890. From 1867 to 1874 and from 1879 to 1890 he was director of the Singer's Association of Lower Austria. Mair died in Vienna in 1893.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]  Joseph Schubert (20 December 1754 – 28 July 1837) was a German composer, violinist, and violist. Schubert was born in Varnsdorf, Bohemia (now Czech Republic) to a musical family. He received his early musical education from his father, who was a cantor, and then in Prague. In 1778, he moved to Berlin to study the violin with Paul Kohn, director of the royal orchestra there. In 1779, Schubert obtained a position as violinist in the court of Heinrich Friedrich, the Margrave of Brandenburg-Schwedt. In 1788, he accepted a post as violist in the court orchestra of Dresden, where he remained until his death in 1837. Schubert gained recognition as a versatile composer, cited in the 1812 edition of Ernst Ludwig Gerber's lexicon of composers. His œuvre includes 15 masses, 4 operas, 17 sonatas, and 49 concertos for solo instruments. The Saxon State Library in Dresden holds the manuscripts of three viola concertos attributed to him.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP] Franz Schubert  Franz Peter Schubert (; 31 January 179719 November 1828) was an Austrian composer of the late Classical and early Romantic eras. Despite his short lifetime, Schubert left behind a vast "oeuvre", including more than 600 secular vocal works (mainly lieder), seven complete symphonies, sacred music, operas, incidental music, and a large body of piano and chamber music. His major works include "Erlkönig" (D. 328), the Piano Quintet in A major, D. 667 ("Trout Quintet"), the Symphony No. 8 in B minor, D. 759 ("Unfinished Symphony"), the "Great" Symphony No. 9 in C major, D. 944, the String Quintet (D. 956), the three last piano sonatas (D. 958–960), the opera "Fierrabras" (D. 796), the incidental music to the play "Rosamunde" (D. 797), and the song cycles "Die schöne Müllerin" (D. 795) and "Winterreise" (D. 911).  Born in the Himmelpfortgrund suburb of Vienna, Schubert showed uncommon gifts for music from an early age. His father gave him his first violin lessons and his elder brother gave him piano lessons, but Schubert soon exceeded their abilities. In 1808, at the age of eleven, he became a pupil at the Stadtkonvikt school, where he became acquainted with the orchestral music of Joseph Haydn, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, and Ludwig van Beethoven. He left the Stadtkonvikt at the end of 1813, and returned home to live with his father, where he began studying to become a schoolteacher. Despite this, he continued his studies in composition with Antonio Salieri and still composed prolifically. In 1821, Schubert was admitted to the Gesellschaft der Musikfreunde as a performing member, which helped establish his name among the Viennese citizenry. He gave a concert of his own works to critical acclaim in March 1828, the only time he did so in his career. He died eight months later at the age of 31, the cause officially attributed to typhoid fever, but believed by some historians to be syphilis.  Appreciation of Schubert's music while he was alive was limited to a relatively small circle of admirers in Vienna, but interest in his work increased greatly in the decades following his death. Felix Mendelssohn, Robert Schumann, Franz Liszt, Johannes Brahms and other 19th-century composers discovered and championed his works. Today, Schubert is ranked among the greatest composers in the history of Western music and his work continues to be admired.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP] Johannes Brahms  Johannes Brahms (; 7 May 1833 – 3 April 1897) was a German composer, pianist, and conductor of the mid-Romantic period. Born in Hamburg into a Lutheran family, he spent much of his professional life in Vienna. He is sometimes grouped with Johann Sebastian Bach and Ludwig van Beethoven as one of the "Three Bs" of music, a comment originally made by the nineteenth-century conductor Hans von Bülow.  Brahms composed for symphony orchestra, chamber ensembles, piano, organ, violin, voice, and chorus. A virtuoso pianist, he premiered many of his own works. He worked with leading performers of his time, including the pianist Clara Schumann and the violinist Joseph Joachim (the three were close friends). Many of his works have become staples of the modern concert repertoire.  Brahms has been considered both a traditionalist and an innovator, by his contemporaries and by later writers. His music is rooted in the structures and compositional techniques of the Classical masters. Embedded within those structures are deeply romantic motifs. While some contemporaries found his music to be overly academic, his contribution and craftsmanship were admired by subsequent figures as diverse as Arnold Schoenberg and Edward Elgar. The detailed construction of Brahms's works was a starting point and an inspiration for a generation of composers.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP]
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP] Antonio Salieri  Antonio Salieri (18 August 17507 May 1825) was an Italian classical composer, conductor, and teacher. He was born in Legnago, south of Verona, in the Republic of Venice, and spent his adult life and career as a subject of the Habsburg monarchy.  Salieri was a pivotal figure in the development of late 18th-century opera. As a student of Florian Leopold Gassmann, and a protégé of Christoph Willibald Gluck, Salieri was a cosmopolitan composer who wrote operas in three languages. Salieri helped to develop and shape many of the features of operatic compositional vocabulary, and his music was a powerful influence on contemporary composers.  Appointed the director of the Italian opera by the Habsburg court, a post he held from 1774 until 1792, Salieri dominated Italian-language opera in Vienna. During his career, he also spent time writing works for opera houses in Paris, Rome, and Venice, and his dramatic works were widely performed throughout Europe during his lifetime. As the Austrian imperial Kapellmeister from 1788 to 1824, he was responsible for music at the court chapel and attached school. Even as his works dropped from performance, and he wrote no new operas after 1804, he still remained one of the most important and sought-after teachers of his generation, and his influence was felt in every aspect of Vienna's musical life. Franz Liszt, Franz Schubert, Ludwig van Beethoven, Anton Eberl, Johann Nepomuk Hummel and Franz Xaver Wolfgang Mozart were among the most famous of his pupils. Salieri's music slowly disappeared from the repertoire between 1800 and 1868 and was rarely heard after that period until the revival of his fame in the late 20th century. This revival was due to the fictionalized depiction of Salieri in Peter Shaffer's play "Amadeus" (1979) and its 1984 film version. The death of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart in 1791 at the age of 35 was followed by rumors that he and Salieri had been bitter rivals, and that Salieri had poisoned the younger composer, yet it has been suggested this is false, and it is likely that they were, at least, mutually respectful peers.
What is the religion of Joseph Schubert? [SEP] Schubert (surname)  Schubert is a German surname.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP]  Bellino Giusto Ghirard (22 May 1935 − 26 July 2013) was a French Roman Catholic bishop. Ordained to the priesthood in 1962, Ghirard was appointed coadjutor bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Rodez, France, in 1990 and succeeded to the diocese in 1991 retiring in 2011.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP]  Gherardo Gnoli (6 December 1937 in Rome – 7 March 2012 in Cagli) was a historian of Italian religions and Iran expert.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] Giovanni Battista Pinello di Ghirardi (c. 1544-1587), Italian music composer and Kapellmeister of the Italian Renaissance ; Giancarlo Ghirardi (1935–2018), Italian physicist and emeritus professor of theoretical physics ; Lea Ghirardi (born 1974), French tennis player ; Tommaso Ghirardi (born 1975), Italian businessman in the mechanics industry. Also known for having served as chairman (of BoD) and owner of Italian association football club Parma F.C. from January 2007 to December 2014. Ghirardi is a surname. It may refer to:
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP]  Costantino della Gherardesca Verecondi Scortecci (born 29 January 1977, in Rome), or simply Costantino della Gherardesca, is an Italian actor, journalist, radio presenter, television personality and presenter. Gherardesca is part of a notable aristocratic family and graduated in philosophy from King's College London, and entered show business at the start of the 2000s. Along with Giorgio Bozzo of P-Nuts he is best known for his participation as a commentator in television shows conducted by Piero Chiambretti, and currently presents Pechino Express and Boss in incognito for RAI and Discovery. Scortecci is the descendant of Count Ugolino della Gherardesca. He is gay and interested in the preservation of the environment.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP]  Maurizio 'Mo' Gherardini (born September 22, 1955) is an Italian sportsman, currently serving as a general manager of Fenerbahçe. In 2017, he was named the EuroLeague Executive of the Year in a year in which his club Fenerbahçe won the EuroLeague championship.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Rodez  The Diocese of Rodez (–Vabres) (; French: "Diocèse de Rodez (–Vabres)") is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Catholic Church in France. The episcopal see is in Rodez. The diocese corresponds exactly to the Department of Aveyron (formerly Rouergue).  Originally erected in the 5th century, the Diocese of Rodez lost territory when the Diocese of Vabres was created by Pope John XXII on 11 July 1317. In 1801, the diocese was suppressed and its territory split and merged with the Diocese of Cahors and the Diocese of Saint-Flour.  In 1817, the diocese was restored and given jurisdiction over the ancient Diocese of Rodez, with the exception of (1) the deanery of Saint Antonin, which was incorporated with the Diocese of Montauban; (2) the ancient Diocese of Vabres; and (3) a few scattered communes of the Diocese of Cahors.  It was a suffragan diocese of the Archdiocese of Bourges until 1676, then of the Archdiocese of Albi, until 2002, when the diocese became a suffragan in the ecclesiastical province of the metropolitan Archdiocese of Toulouse.
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] Deaths in July 2013  The following is a list of notable deaths in July 2013.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] subsequently Commanding General of Folgore Parachute Brigade who died in 1971) and was the first one to bring back to Florence the Gherardini of Montagliari after seven centuries; his great-grandson, the economist Jacopo Schettini Gherardini, candidate for the National Secretariat of the Democratic Party (Italy) during the primary elections of 2007. Gherardini family The Gherardinis of Montagliari (or Florence) are a family that is still thriving. Between the 9th and 14th centuries, this family played an important role in Tuscany. Its influence was also felt in the Veneto and Emilia regions between the 16th and 18th centuries and during the
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] Giordano Berti Giordano Berti (born 27 February 1959) is an Italian writer and teacher of History of Arts. Born in Bologna, Giordano Berti grew up in Monghidoro, a town of the Tuscan-Emilian Apennines. After obtaining his college diploma he went on to study history and philosophy at University of Bologna and shortly thereafter started his career of editor and writer. Berti is an established and prolific author of many books about different subjects, such as History of Esotericism (magic, divination, witchcraft, alchemy, astrology, heresies, gnosticism, heaven and hell, angels and devils) in his relationship with Art. Some of Berti's books
What is the religion of Bellino Giusto Ghirard? [SEP] Gherardo III da Camino Gherardo III da Camino ( 1240 – 1306) was an Italian feudal lord and military leader. He is generally considered the most outstanding member in the da Camino family. He was born in the family castle in Credazzo (or Padua), the second child of Biaquino II da Camino and India da Camposampiero. When his father died in 1274, he became the sole heir of the family's lands. He had already been member of the City Council of Treviso and, in 1266, had received the seignory of Feltre and Belluno from the local bishop, which Gherardo was
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]  Heinrich Fasching (24 May 1929 &ndash; 1 June 2014) was a Roman Catholic bishop. Ordained to the priesthood in 1954, Fasching was named titular bishop of Acci and auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Sankt Pölten in 1993. He retired in 2004.
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]  Heinrich Pesch, S.J. (17 September 1854 – 1 April 1926) was a German Roman Catholic ethicist and economist of the Solidarist school. His major work, Lehrbuch der Nationalökonomie, is generally regarded as a source for Pope Pius XI's social encyclical Quadragesimo anno.
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]  with Ernst Graf zu Reventlow in this endeavour and in 1934 founded the German Faith Movement (Deutsche Glaubensbewegung), which combined a number of existing communities in a Völkisch faith influenced by Hinduism. Hauer's admiration for Hinduism centred on the Bhagavad Gita, to which he had been particularly drawn. He described it as "a work of imperishable significance", arguing that it called on people to "master the riddle of life". By July 1934 the religion had been ratified as Hauer celebrated his first wedding without other clergy. It had initially been hoped that it might be adopted as the state religion of the Third Reich but
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]  The first group started by Fahrenkrog was the Deutscher Bund für Persönlichkeitskultur (German League for the Culture of the Personality), which also supported a publication called Mehr Licht! ("More Light!", the famous last words of Goethe). He was also involved with the Deutsche Religionsgemeinschaft (German Religious Community [DRG]), which would later change its name several times, first in 1912 to Germanisch-Deutsche Religionsgemeinschaft (Germanic-German Religious Community [GDRG]), then in 1915, following a split in the membership, to the Deutschgläubige Gemeinschaft (Association of the German Faithful [DGG]). Fahrenkrog remained with the GDRG after several members left following disagreements over the place of the old Germanic gods and the inclusion of a partly Jewish member, and shortly thereafter the group changed its name to the Germanische Glaubens-Gemeinschaft (Germanic Faith-Community [GGG]), its final form. In 1916, the group set out ten points of common belief which they
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]  Bernd Fasching (born 18 July 1955 in Vienna, Austria) is an Austrian painter and sculptor. He lives and works in Vienna.
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP]
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP] Taoism  Taoism (, ) or Daoism () refers to either a school of philosophical thought (道家; "daojia") or to a religion (道教; "daojiao"), both of which share ideas and concepts of Chinese origin and emphasize living in harmony with the "Tao" (, 'Thoroughfare'); the "Tao" is generally defined as the source of everything and the ultimate principle underlying reality. The "Tao Te Ching", a book containing teachings attributed to Laozi (), together with the later writings of Zhuangzi, are both widely considered the keystone works of Taoism.  Taoism teaches about the various disciplines for achieving perfection through self-cultivation. This can be done through the use of Taoist techniques and by becoming one with the unplanned rhythms of the all, called "the way" or "Tao". Taoist ethics vary depending on the particular school, but in general tend to emphasize "wu wei" (action without intention), naturalness, simplicity, spontaneity and the Three Treasures: , compassion, , frugality and , humility.  The roots of Taoism go back at least to the 4th century BCE. Early Taoism drew its cosmological notions from the School of Yinyang (Naturalists) and was deeply influenced by one of the oldest texts of Chinese culture, the "I Ching", which expounds a philosophical system about how to keep human behavior in accordance with the alternating cycles of nature. The Legalist Shen Buhai (c. 400 – c. 337 BCE) may also have been a major influence, expounding a realpolitik of "wu wei", or qualified inaction.   Taoism has had a profound influence on Chinese culture in the course of the centuries and Taoists (, "masters of the Tao"), a title traditionally attributed only to the clergy and not to their lay followers, usually take care to note the distinction between their ritual tradition and the practices of Chinese folk religion and non-Taoist vernacular ritual orders, which are often mistakenly identified as pertaining to Taoism. Chinese alchemy (especially neidan), Chinese astrology, Chan (Zen) Buddhism, several martial arts including kung fu, traditional Chinese medicine, feng shui and many styles of qigong have been intertwined with Taoism throughout history.  Today, the Taoist religion is one of the five religious doctrines officially recognized by the People's Republic of China (PRC), including in its special administrative regions (SARs) of Hong Kong and Macau. It is also a major religion in Taiwan and has a significant number of adherents in a number of other societies throughout East and Southeast Asia, particularly in Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam.
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP] Kusel  Kusel (; written "Cusel" until 1865) is a town in the Kusel district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It is the seat of the Kusel-Altenglan "Verbandsgemeinde" and is also the district seat.  The well-known operatic tenor Fritz Wunderlich was born in Kusel.
What is the religion of Heinrich Fasching? [SEP] Heidelberg  Heidelberg (; Palatine German: "Heidlberg") is a city in the German state of Baden-Württemberg, situated on the river Neckar in south-west Germany. As of the 2016 census, its population was 159,914, of which roughly a quarter consisted of students.  Located about south of Frankfurt, Heidelberg is the fifth-largest city in Baden-Württemberg. Heidelberg is part of the densely populated Rhine-Neckar Metropolitan Region.  Heidelberg University, founded in 1386, is Germany's oldest and one of Europe's most reputable universities. Heidelberg is a scientific hub in Germany and home to several internationally renowned research facilities adjacent to its university, including the European Molecular Biology Laboratory and four Max Planck Institutes. The city has also been a hub for the arts, especially literature, throughout the centuries, and it was designated a "City of Literature" by the UNESCO Creative Cities Network.  Heidelberg was a seat of government of the former Electorate of the Palatinate and is a popular tourist destination due to its romantic cityscape, including Heidelberg Castle, the Philosophers' Walk, and the Baroque old town.
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]  Angelo Maria Rivato (December 3, 1924 &ndash; August 20, 2011) was the first Catholic bishop of the Diocese of Ponta de Pedras, Brazil. Born in Italy, Rivato was ordained to the priesthood for the Society of Jesus. In 1967 he was ordained as bishop and was appointed the first bishop of the Ponta de Pedras Diocese.
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]  Angelo Rizzo (April 11, 1926, Montedoro, Province of Caltanissetta - July 16, 2009, Montedoro) was the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Ragusa, Sicily from February 2, 1974 until his retirement on February 16, 2002. He was succeeded as bishop by Paolo Urso. Rizzo died on July 16, 2009, in his native Montedoro of 83.
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]  Mattio Lovat was born in Casale, at the territory of Belluno, in 1761, in Italy. A son of poor parents, he was a shoemaker. On November 13, 1802 he went to Venice, where a younger brother named Angelo conducted Mattio to the house of a widow, the relict of Andrew Osgualda, with whom he lodged, until September 21, 1803. On the mentioned day, he made an attempt to crucify himself, in the middle of the street called Cross of Biri.
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]  Angelo Maria Angelo Flavio Comneno (Latin: Angelus Maria Angelus Flavius Comnenus; 1600–1678) was the Grand Master of the Constantinian Order of Saint George from 1634 to 1678. Angelo Maria's family, the Angelo Flavio Comneno, claimed descent from the Angelos dynasty of Byzantine emperors, and Angelo Maria also claimed the titles "Prince of Macedonia and Thessaly" and "Duke and Count of Drivasto and Durazzo".
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]  .
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP] Santa Croce, Florence  The (Italian for 'Basilica of the Holy Cross') is the principal Franciscan church in Florence, Italy, and a minor basilica of the Roman Catholic Church. It is situated on the Piazza di Santa Croce, about 800 meters south-east of the Duomo. The site, when first chosen, was in marshland outside the city walls. It is the burial place of some of the most illustrious Italians, such as Michelangelo, Galileo, Machiavelli, the poet Foscolo, the philosopher Gentile and the composer Rossini, thus it is known also as the Temple of the Italian Glories ().
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP] Pope John Paul II  Pope John Paul II (; ; ; born Karol Józef Wojtyła ; 18 May 19202 April 2005) was the head of the Catholic Church and sovereign of the Vatican City State from 1978 until his death in April 2005, and was later canonised as Pope Saint John Paul II.  He was elected pope by the second papal conclave of 1978, which was called after John Paul I, who had been elected in August to succeed Pope Paul VI, died after 33 days. Cardinal Wojtyła was elected on the third day of the conclave and adopted the name of his predecessor in tribute to him. Born in Poland, John Paul II was the first non-Italian pope since Adrian VI in the 16th century and the second-longest-serving pope after Pius IX in modern history.  John Paul II attempted to improve the Catholic Church's relations with Judaism, Islam, and the Eastern Orthodox Church. He maintained the church's previous positions on such matters as abortion, artificial contraception, the ordination of women, and a celibate clergy, and although he supported the reforms of the Second Vatican Council, he was seen as generally conservative in their interpretation. He was one of the most travelled world leaders in history, visiting 129 countries during his pontificate. As part of his special emphasis on the universal call to holiness, he beatified 1,344 and canonised 483 people, more than the combined tally of his predecessors during the preceding five centuries. By the time of his death, he had named most of the College of Cardinals, consecrated or co-consecrated many of the world's bishops, and ordained many priests. He has also been credited with helping to end Communist rule in his native Poland as well as the rest of Europe.  John Paul II's cause for canonisation commenced one month after his death with the traditional five-year waiting period waived. On 19 December 2009, John Paul II was proclaimed venerable by his successor, Benedict XVI, and was beatified on 1 May 2011 (Divine Mercy Sunday) after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints attributed one miracle to his intercession, the healing of a French nun called Marie Simon Pierre from Parkinson's disease. A second miracle was approved on 2 July 2013, and confirmed by Pope Francis two days later. John Paul II was canonised on 27 April 2014 (again Divine Mercy Sunday), together with John XXIII. On 11 September 2014, Pope Francis added these two optional memorials to the worldwide General Roman Calendar of saints. It is traditional to celebrate saints' feast days on the anniversary of their deaths, but that of John Paul II (22 October) is celebrated on the anniversary of his papal inauguration. Posthumously, he has been referred to by some Catholics as "Pope St. John Paul the Great", although the title has no official recognition.
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP] Magdalene of Canossa  Magdalena di Canossa (1 March 1774 – 10 April 1835) was an Italian professed religious and foundress of the two Canossian congregations. Magdalena was a leading advocate for the poor in her region after she witnessed first hand the plight of the poor following the spillover effects of the French Revolution into the Italian peninsula through the Napoleonic invasion of the northern territories. Canossa collaborated with humanitarians such as Leopoldina Naudet and Antonio Rosmini in her mission of promoting the needs of the poor and setting a new method of religious life for both men and women.  Her beatification was celebrated in Rome on 7 December 1941 and she was later canonized as a saint in Saint Peter's Square on 2 October 1988.<ref name=SQPN/>
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP] Gianni Agnelli  Giovanni "Gianni" Agnelli (; 12 March 192124 January 2003), nicknamed ("The Lawyer"), was an Italian industrialist and principal shareholder of Fiat. As the head of Fiat, he controlled 4.4% of Italy's GDP, 3.1% of its industrial workforce and 16.5% of its industrial investment in research. He was the richest man in modern Italian history.  Agnelli was regarded as having an impeccable and slightly eccentric fashion sense, which has influenced both Italian and international men's fashion. Agnelli was awarded the decoration Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic in 1967 and the title Knight of Labour ("Cavaliere del lavoro") in 1977. Following his death in 2003, control of the firm was gradually passed to his grandson and chosen heir, John Elkann.<ref name="vanityfair"/>
What is the religion of Angelo Maria Rivato? [SEP]
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP]  Walter James Fitzgerald, S.J. (November 17, 1883 – July 19, 1947) was an American prelate of the Catholic Church. He served as Vicar Apostolic of Alaska from 1945 until his death in 1947. A Jesuit, he also served as President of Gonzaga University from 1921 to 1927 and of Seattle University from 1929 to 1931.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP] Walter James Fitzgerald, American Roman Catholic bishop
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP]  Fitzgerald was born at Peola, in Garfield County, Washington, to Patrick Sarsfield and Johanna Frances (née Kirk) Fitzgerald. He entered the Society of Jesus (more commonly known as the Jesuits) in 1902, and graduated from the normal school in Los Gatos, California, in 1906. He then returned to Washington and served as a professor at Seattle College until 1909, when he enrolled at Gonzaga University in Spokane. He earned his Bachelor of Arts (1910) and Master of Arts (1912) degrees from Gonzaga. From 1912 to 1920, he was a professor at Gonzaga, although his service was interrupted by a period of study at Immaculate Conception College in Montreal, Quebec, Canada (1915–19) to receive his Doctor of Sacred Theology degree. Fitzgerald was ordained to the priesthood on May 16, 1918. After teaching
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP]  James Newbury FitzGerald (1837 &ndash; 1907) was an American bishop of the Methodist Episcopal Church, elected in 1888. Born at Newark, N. J. He received the degree of D. D. from Wesleyan University in 1880 and that of LL. D. from Hamline University in 1889. In 1895 he made the episcopal visitation to the South American and European conferences. He died at Hong Kong, on an episcopal visitation to the Oriental mission conferences.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP]  Walter Ronald Fitzgerald (May 8, 1936 &ndash; October 11, 2014) was a Canadian politician.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP] Walter James, 4th Baron Northbourne  Walter Ernest Christopher James, 4th Baron Northbourne (18 January 1896 – 17 June 1982), was an English agriculturalist, author and rower who competed in the 1920 Summer Olympics.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP]
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP] James FitzGerald, 1st Duke of Leinster  Lieutenant-General James FitzGerald, 1st Duke of Leinster, PC (Ire) (29 May 1722 – 19 November 1773), styled Lord Offaly until 1743 and known as The Earl of Kildare between 1743 and 1761 and as The Marquess of Kildare between 1761 and 1766, was an Anglo-Irish nobleman, soldier and politician.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP] F. Scott Fitzgerald  Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald (September 24, 1896 – December 21, 1940) was an American novelist, essayist, and short story writer. He is best known for his novels depicting the flamboyance and excess of the Jazz Age—a term he popularized. During his lifetime, he published four novels, four story collections, and 164 short stories. Although he achieved temporary popular success and fortune in the 1920s, Fitzgerald received critical acclaim only after his death and is now widely regarded as one of the greatest American writers of the 20th century.  Born into a middle-class family in Saint Paul, Minnesota, Fitzgerald was raised primarily in New York state. He attended Princeton University where he befriended future literary critic Edmund Wilson. Owing to a failed romantic relationship with Chicago socialite Ginevra King, he dropped out in 1917 to join the United States Army during World War I. While stationed in Alabama, he met Zelda Sayre, a Southern debutante who belonged to Montgomery's exclusive country-club set. Although she initially rejected Fitzgerald's marriage proposal due to his lack of financial prospects, Zelda agreed to marry him after he published the commercially successful "This Side of Paradise" (1920). The novel became a cultural sensation and cemented his reputation as one of the eminent writers of the decade.  His second novel, "The Beautiful and Damned" (1922), propelled him further into the cultural elite. To maintain his affluent lifestyle, he wrote numerous stories for popular magazines such as "The Saturday Evening Post", "Collier's Weekly", and "Esquire". During this period, Fitzgerald frequented Europe, where he befriended modernist writers and artists of the "Lost Generation" expatriate community, including Ernest Hemingway. His third novel, "The Great Gatsby" (1925), received generally favorable reviews but was a commercial failure, selling fewer than 23,000 copies in its first year. Despite its lackluster debut, "The Great Gatsby" is now hailed by some literary critics as the "Great American Novel". Following the deterioration of his wife's mental health and her placement in a mental institute for schizophrenia, Fitzgerald completed his final novel, "Tender Is the Night" (1934).  Struggling financially because of the declining popularity of his works amid the Great Depression, Fitzgerald moved to Hollywood where he embarked upon an unsuccessful career as a screenwriter. While living in Hollywood, he cohabited with columnist Sheilah Graham, his final companion before his death. After a long struggle with alcoholism, he attained sobriety only to die of a heart attack in 1940, at 44. His friend Edmund Wilson edited and published an unfinished fifth novel, "The Last Tycoon" (1941), after Fitzgerald's death.
What is the religion of Walter James Fitzgerald? [SEP] Tudor conquest of Ireland  The Tudor conquest (or reconquest) of Ireland took place under the Tudor dynasty, which held the Kingdom of England during the 16th century. Following a failed rebellion against the crown by Silken Thomas, the Earl of Kildare, in the 1530s, Henry VIII was declared King of Ireland in 1542 by statute of the Parliament of Ireland, with the aim of restoring such central authority as had been lost throughout the country during the previous two centuries. Several people who helped establish the Plantations of Ireland also played a part later in the early colonisation of North America, particularly a group known as the West Country men.  Despite support from the Spanish Empire during the Anglo-Spanish War (1585–1604), by 1603 the entire country was subject to English rule, exercised through the Privy Council of Ireland. It resulted in the imposition of English law, language and culture, the confiscation and redistribution of monastic lands, while the Protestant Church of Ireland replaced Catholicism as the national religion. The Flight of the Earls in 1607 largely completed the destruction of Gaelic Ireland and left the way open for the Plantation of Ulster, which established a large Protestant population in the north.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP]  Jukes has been a book reviewer and feature writer for both The Independent and the New Statesman on themes as diverse as nationalism, art in the computer age, and apocalyptic religion. During the 1980s and 90s, Jukes was an active member of the Labour Party and was involved in the investigations around the cash for questions scandal. More recently Jukes became an active Barack Obama supporter during the 2008 Democratic Party presidential primaries in the US, writing for Daily Kos and then MyDD when it became a pro-Hillary Clinton site. Later he recorded his online experiences of the Primary 'Flame Wars' for Prospect. Following the primaries, he was one of 25 regular bloggers who began writing for a new political blog, The Motley Moose. During the News International phone hacking scandal trial of Rebekah Brooks, Andy Coulson and others, Peter Jukes used the crowdfunding tool Indiegogo to raise donations to allow him to livetweet the trial from start to finish. In 2018, Jukes and Stephen Colegrave founded Byline Times.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP]  Peter Jukes (born 13 October 1960) is an English author, screenwriter, playwright, literary critic and blogger. He is the co-founder and executive editor of Byline Times.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP]  by John Berger a "dream of a book" following the traditions of Walter Benjamin: "Benjamin dreamed of making a book entirely of quotations, and there have been some remarkable books which are creative responses to that idea, like Peter Jukes's A Shout in the Street." Following through in these themes of urbanism and city development Jukes also co-authored, along with Anna Whyatt, Stephen O'Brien and the sociologist Manuel Castells, the monograph Creative Capital: 21st Century Regions. Jukes is the author of The Fall of the House of Murdoch, published by Unbound, a crowd-funded publisher, in August 2012. Since 2016, Peter Jukes collaborates with Deeivya Meir on the podcast series Untold - The Daniel Morgan Murder. He also co-hosted the podcast Dial M for Mueller with journalist Carole Cadwalladr.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP]  Born in Swindon and attended Queens' College, Cambridge. His mother was an Armenian and the daughter of a man fleeing the Armenian genocide; she was later adopted by his grandfather.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP] Andrew Jukes (theologian) (1815–1901) ; Andrew Jukes (missionary) (1847–1931), Anglican missionary ; Betty Jukes (1910–2006), British sculptor ; Bill Jukes (c.1883–1939), English rugby league footballer who played in the 1900s and 1910s ; Francis Jukes (1745–1812), engraver and publisher ; David Jukes (born 1956), English cricketer ; Hamilton Jukes (1895–1951), British ice hockey player who competed in the 1924 Winter Olympics ; John Peter Jukes (1923–2011), English Prelate of the Roman Catholic Church ; Joseph Beete Jukes (1811–1869), British geologist ; Keith Jukes (1954–2013), Dean of Ripon ; Mavis Jukes (born 1947), American author ; Norman Jukes (born 1932), English professional
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP] Peter Jukes  Peter Jukes (born 13 October 1960) is an English author, screenwriter, playwright, literary critic and journalist. He is the co-founder and executive editor of "Byline Times".
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP] Steven Van Zandt  Steven Van Zandt (né Lento; born November 22, 1950), also known as Little Steven or Miami Steve, is an American musician, singer, songwriter, and actor. He is a member of Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band, in which he plays guitar and mandolin. He has appeared in several television drama series, including as Silvio Dante in "The Sopranos" (1999–2007) and as Frank Tagliano in "Lilyhammer" (2012–2014). Van Zandt has his own solo band called Little Steven and The Disciples of Soul, intermittently active since the 1980s. In 2014, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the E Street Band. Van Zandt has produced music, written songs, and had his own songs covered by Bruce Springsteen, Meat Loaf, Nancy Sinatra, Pearl Jam, Artists United Against Apartheid, and the Iron City Houserockers, among others.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP]
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP] Blues  Blues is a music genre and musical form which originated in the Deep South of the United States around the 1860s.<ref name=:0/> Blues incorporated spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts, chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads from the African-American culture. The blues form is ubiquitous in jazz, rhythm and blues, and rock and roll, and is characterized by the call-and-response pattern (the blues scale and specific chord progressions) of which the twelve-bar blues is the most common. Blue notes (or "worried notes"), usually thirds, fifths or sevenths flattened in pitch, are also an essential part of the sound. Blues shuffles or walking bass reinforce the trance-like rhythm and form a repetitive effect known as the groove.  Blues as a genre is also characterized by its lyrics, bass lines, and instrumentation. Early traditional blues verses consisted of a single line repeated four times. It was only in the first decades of the 20th century that the most common current structure became standard: the AAB pattern, consisting of a line sung over the four first bars, its repetition over the next four, and then a longer concluding line over the last bars. Early blues frequently took the form of a loose narrative, often relating the racial discrimination and other challenges experienced by African-Americans.  Many elements, such as the call-and-response format and the use of blue notes, can be traced back to the music of Africa. The origins of the blues are also closely related to the religious music of the Afro-American community, the spirituals. The first appearance of the blues is often dated to after the ending of slavery and, later, the development of juke joints. It is associated with the newly acquired freedom of the former slaves. Chroniclers began to report about blues music at the dawn of the 20th century. The first publication of blues sheet music was in 1908. Blues has since evolved from unaccompanied vocal music and oral traditions of slaves into a wide variety of styles and subgenres. Blues subgenres include country blues, such as Delta blues and Piedmont blues, as well as urban blues styles such as Chicago blues and West Coast blues. World War II marked the transition from acoustic to electric blues and the progressive opening of blues music to a wider audience, especially white listeners. In the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form called blues rock developed, which blended blues styles with rock music.
What is the religion of John Peter Jukes? [SEP] List of University of Cambridge people  This is a list of notable alumni from the University of Cambridge, featuring members of the University of Cambridge segregated in accordance with their fields of achievement. The individual must have either studied at the university (although they may not necessarily have taken a degree), or worked at the university in an academic capacity; others have held fellowships at one of the university's colleges. Honorary fellows or those awarded an honorary degree are not included and neither are non-executive chancellors. Lecturers without long-term posts at the university also do not feature, although official visiting fellows and visiting professors do.  The list has been divided into categories indicating the field of activity in which people have become well known. Many of the university's alumni/ae have attained a level of distinction in more than one field. These individuals may appear under two categories. In general, however, an attempt has been made to put individuals in the category with which they are most associated.  "Cantabrigians" is a term for members of the university derived from its Latin name "Cantabrigia", a medieval Latin name for Cambridge.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]  François Gayot (July 17, 1927 – December 16, 2010) was the Catholic archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Cap-Haïtien. Haiti. Ordained to the priesthood in 1954, Gayot was named bishop of the then Cap-Haïtien Diocese. In 1988 the Diocese was elevated to an archdiocese. Archbishop Gayot retired in 2003 and died in 2010.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]  Francisque Gay was born on 2 May 1885 in Roanne, Loire, son of a plumbing contractor. He was educated by the Marists of Charlieu, then by the Lazarists of Lyon. In 1903, when he was aged 18, Gay helped at the national congress of the Cercles d'études (Study Circles) in Lyon. There he was impressed by the views of Marc Sangnier, founder of Le Sillon (The Furrow). He went to Paris to visit Sangnier at his home on the boulevard Raspail and to offer his help with Le Sillon. He was deeply influenced by Sangnier's views on Social Catholicism, and founded a branch of Le Sillon in Roanne. He contributed to Le Sillon's journal, Démocratie. Gay became more deeply involved in Catholicism, and in 1905 entered the Major Seminary of Francheville. He left when the seminary closed in December 1906 and moved to Paris, where he studied at the Sorbonne faculty of letters. He then moved to Montpellier where he was accepted as an English teacher by a religious college.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]  Baubérot is the son of teachers. He attended his secondary education at the Lycée Gay-Lussac in Limoges. At the Paris-Sorbonne University, he was awarded doctor for history (under the direction of Jean-Marie Mayeur) for letters and human sciences, he graduated from the École pratique des hautes études (EPHE). He started as technical contributor at the EPHE in 1967, then he became research assistant in 1971, then director of studies in 1978. He chaired the Section of Religious Sciences between 1986 and 1994. He was appointed Chairman of the School in 1999. He founded in 1995 and directed in 2001 the Group of Sociology of religion and secularism (EPHE-CNRS). Between 1997 and 1998, he was appointed technical adviser to the cabinet of Ségolène Royal. He was the sole member of the Stasi Commission to have abstained on the vote of the report which led to the development of the French law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools. He is also a member of the Société internationale de sociologie de la religion (SISR) and chaired the Ernest Renan society in 1995 and 1996. Baubérot was awarded Chevalier of the Légion d'honneur.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]  François Blanchetière is a French New Testament scholar. He is known for his view on continuity between Second Temple period Judaism and Jewish Christianity and considers that Jesus cannot be considered as a "founder" of a religion. Blanchetière considers that "Nazarene" religion was a religious movement of Semitic character within Judaism. His position is often linked to that of Simon Claude Mimouni.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]  Francisque Gay (2 May 1885 – 22 October 1963) was a French editor, politician and diplomat. He was committed to the Catholic Church and to Christian democracy. He ran the Bloud et Gay publishing house for many years, and edited the influential journals La Vie Catholique (Catholic Life) and l'Aube (The Dawn). He helped publish clandestine journals during the German occupation of France in World War II (1939–45). After the war he was a deputy from 1945 to 1951, and participated in three cabinets in 1945–46.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP] Pierre-Antoine Paulo  Pierre-Antoine Paulo, OMI (23 March 1944 – 4 February 2021) was a Haitian prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as Bishop of Port-de-Paix from 2008 to 2020.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP] Joseph Serge Miot  Joseph Serge Miot (23 November 1946 – 12 January 2010) was a Haitian archbishop of the Roman Catholic Church. He was the ninth Archbishop of Port-au-Prince, serving from 2008 until his death as a result of the 12 January 2010 earthquake.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP] Luigi Barbarito  Luigi Barbarito (19 April 1922 – 12 March 2017) was an Italian prelate of the Catholic Church. He held the rank of archbishop while serving as a nuncio in the diplomatic service of the Holy See from 1969 to 1997.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP] Julie Gayet  Julie Gayet (; born 3 June 1972) is a French actress and film producer. She is also known for being the wife of the former President of the French Republic, François Hollande.
What is the religion of François Gayot? [SEP]
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP]  Ricardo Watty Urquidi (July 16, 1938 &ndash; November 1, 2011) was the Roman Catholic bishop of the Diocese of Tepic in Nayarit, Mexico. Born in San Diego, California, he was ordained to the priesthood in 1968. In 1980 he was named bishop. He died in Tepic on November 1, 2011, aged 73, from pancreatic cancer.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP]  Luis Enrique Urquidi Holberton (3 October 1935−3 March 1994) was a Chilean musician and folklorist. Despite he was born in Antofagasta, Urquidi was grew up in Valparaíso, where then joined the Pontifical Catholic University of Valparaíso School of Law, career which he didn't end. Similarly, he was part of the nationalist band Los Cuatro Cuartos in the 1960s, decade where he helped to Willy Bascuñán to compose Los Viejos Estandartes («The Old Military Banners»), song which later was officialy established as the anthem of the Chilean Army (1976). A strong oppositor to the socialist president Salvador Allende, after the 1973 coup d'état, he supported the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet through the creation of other marches like «Alborada», which honored the coup with allusions to September 11th. By the other hand, in 1971 he already was ruler of Santiago and in 1989 he failed to be elected as deputy for the 19th District composed by Independencia and Recoleta.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP] Ricardo Watty Urquidi, M.Sp.S. (1989–2008), appointed Bishop of Tepic, Nayarit ; Gustavo Rodríguez Vega (2008-2015), appointed Archbishop of Yucatán ; Enrique Sanchez Martinez (2015- )
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP]  Raimundo Irineu Serra, also known as Mestre (Master) Irineu, (December 15, 1892 São Vicente Ferrer, Maranhão, Brazil — July 6, 1971) was the founder of a syncretic religion known as Santo Daime. Irineu was raised Roman Catholic. He later moved to the state of Acre where he worked on rubber plantations. In the city of Brasiléia, which is close to the border of Bolivia, he was in contact with other people from his home state of Maranhão as well as Bolivians, from whom he learned the use of ayahuasca. In these early experiences he encountered the Virgin Mary (the Queen of the Forest) and began receiving the guidance which developed into a religious doctrine throughout the remainder of his long life.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP]  Ricardo Duchesne is a Puerto Rican-born Canadian historical sociologist and former professor at the University of New Brunswick. His main research interests are Western civilization, the rise of the West, and multiculturalism. Duchesne's views on immigration and multiculturalism have been described as racist and white nationalist. He has denied being a racist to the mainstream press, but has described himself as being "the only academic in Canada, and possibly the Western world, who questions the ideology of diversity while advocating white identity politics."
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP] Thomas Paprocki  Thomas John Joseph Paprocki (born August 5, 1952) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church who has been serving as bishop of the Diocese of Springfield in Illinois since 2010. He previously served as an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago from 2003 to 2010.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP] Missionaries of the Holy Spirit  The Missionaries of the Holy Spirit (MSpS) are a Catholic religious institute founded in Mexico City in 1914 by French missionary Félix de Jesús Rougier. Father Rougier was a priest and a member of another religious order, the Society of Mary. He would receive dispensation of his vows and permission to join the new congregation 12 years later.  The institute is divided into three provinces: Province of Mexico, Félix de Jesús Province, and Christ the Priest Province. The community has 376 members in seven countries: Mexico, United States, Italy, Costa Rica, Spain, Chile and Colombia. Its members are distributed among 57 communities, 40 of which are in Mexico. Currently, there are five bishops, 256 priests, one permanent deacon and 15 professed religious brothers in the congregation. Additionally, there are 99 members in various stages of formation toward the priesthood. Three of the most prominent members are the Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of San Antonio, Texas, Gustavo Garcia-Siller, M.Sp.S.; Eusebio L. Elizondo Almaguer, M.Sp.S., Auxiliary Bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Seattle, Washington; Bishop Emeritus of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nuevo Laredo, Mexico, Ricardo Watty Urquidi, M.Sp.S., who was one of Archbishop Gustavo Garcia-Siller's principal co-consecrators when the Archbishop was ordained to the episcopacy in 2003 as an Auxiliary Bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago, under Cardinal Francis Eugene George, O.M.I.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP]
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP] Francis J. Kane  Francis Joseph Kane (born October 30, 1942) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. Kane served as an auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Chicago from 2003 to 2018.
What is the religion of Ricardo Watty Urquidi? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Tepic  The Roman Catholic Diocese of Tepic ()) is a suffragan Latin diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the Metropolitan Archdiocese of Guadalajara in western Mexico.  Its cathedral episcopal see is the Catedral de la Purísima Concepción, dedicated to the Immaculate Conception, in Tepic, capital of Nayarit state. It also has a Minor Basilica: Basílica de Nuestra Señora del Rosario de Talpa, dedicated to Our Lady of the Rosary, in Talpa de Allende, Jalisco.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP]  William Preston (7 August 1742 – 1 April 1818) was a Scottish author, editor and lecturer, born in Edinburgh. After attending school and college he became secretary to the linguist Thomas Ruddiman, who became his guardian on the death of his father. On the death of Thomas, Preston became a printer for Walter Ruddiman, Thomas' brother. In 1760 he moved to London and started a distinguished career with the printer William Strahan. He became a Freemason, instituting a system of lectures of instruction, and publishing Illustrations of Masonry, which ran to several editions. It was under Preston that the Lodge of Antiquity seceded from the Moderns Grand Lodge to become "The Grand Lodge of All England South of the River Trent" for ten years. He died on 1 April 1818, after a long illness, and was buried in St Paul's Cathedral.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP]  Preston was a born in Edinburgh, on 7 August 1742. His father, also William Preston, was a Writer to the Signet, a form of solicitor. His second, and only surviving child, was encouraged in Classical studies, entering the Royal High School, Edinburgh at six, where he shone in Latin, and would also have studied Greek. He continued his classical studies at college, before becoming secretary to Thomas Ruddiman, a classical scholar whose blindness now necessitated such help. Meanwhile, Preston senior's health and fortunes declined, due to bad investments and supporting the wrong side in the 1745 rebellion. On his death, in 1751, Ruddiman became young William's guardian. He was apprenticed to the printer, Walter Ruddiman, Thomas' brother, but until Thomas' death in 1757 spent most of his time reading to him, and transcribing and copy-editing his work. In 1760, furnished with letters of introduction by Ruddiman, Preston arrived in London, where he took employment with William Strahan, later to become the King's Printer, and a former pupil of the same school as Preston. Here he would spend his professional life as an editor, earning the respect of writers such as David Hume and Edward Gibbon.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] Attribution
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP]  1774 he organised his material into lecture courses, delivered by him at the Mitre Tavern, Fleet Street. There were twelve lectures per degree, at one guinea per degree. Present at the Gala were two members of the Lodge of Antiquity (once, as the Goose and Gridiron, a founder of the Grand Lodge). John Bottomley was then the Master, and John Noorthouck a colleague of Preston at Strahan's printing firm. Antiquity was suffering from declining membership, and these two men conceived the idea of reviving their lodge by recruiting Preston. He was elected a member, in absentia, on 1 June 1774. On his first attendance as a member, a fortnight later, he was elected Master of the lodge. The
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP]  Andrew Malcolm Preston (born 1973) is a Canadian historian, who won the 2013 Charles Taylor Prize for his book Sword of the Spirit, Shield of Faith: Religion in American War and Diplomacy. He is also a fellow at Clare College, Cambridge.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] William Preston Johnston  William Preston Johnston (January 5, 1831 – July 16, 1899) was a lawyer, scholar, poet, and Confederate soldier. He was the son and biographer of Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston. He was a president of Louisiana State University and the first president of Tulane University from 1884 (Tulane being renamed from the University of Louisiana that year).
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] Billy Preston  William Everett Preston (September 2, 1946 – June 6, 2006)<ref name="nyt"/> was an American keyboardist, singer and songwriter whose work encompassed R&B, rock, soul, funk, and gospel. Preston was a top session keyboardist in the 1960s, during which he backed artists such as Little Richard, Sam Cooke, Ray Charles, the Everly Brothers, Reverend James Cleveland, the Beatles and the Rolling Stones. He gained attention as a solo artist with hit singles such as "That's the Way God Planned It", the Grammy-winning "Outa-Space", "Will It Go Round in Circles", "Space Race", "Nothing from Nothing", and "With You I'm Born Again". Additionally, Preston co-wrote "You Are So Beautiful", which became a #5 hit for Joe Cocker.  Preston is the only non-Beatle musician to be given a credit on a Beatles recording at the band's request; the group's 1969 single "Get Back" was credited as "The Beatles with Billy Preston". He continued to record and perform with George Harrison after the Beatles' breakup, along with other artists such as Eric Clapton, and the Rolling Stones on many of the group's albums and tours during the 1970s. On May 12, 2021, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame announced that Preston would be inducted with the Musical Excellence Award.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] William G. Preston  William Gibbons Preston (September 29, 1842 – March 26, 1910) was an American architect who practiced during the last third of the nineteenth century and in the first decade of the twentieth. Educated at Harvard University and the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris., he was active in Boston, New York, Rhode Island, Ohio, New Brunswick and Savannah, Georgia, where he was brought by George Johnson Baldwin to design the Chatham County courthouse. Preston stayed in Savannah for several years during which time designed the original Desoto Hotel (1890, demolished 1965), the Savannah Volunteer Guards Armory and 20 other distinguished public buildings and private homes. He began his professional career working for his father, the builder and architect Jonathan Preston (1801–1888), upon his return to the United States from the École in 1861, and was the sole practitioner in the office from the time his father retired c. 1875 until he took John Kahlmeyer as a partner in about 1885.  The drawings of the Preston firm, now owned by the Boston Public Library, make up "...one of the most complete sets of architectural graphics preserved from the nineteenth century." Many of his buildings were pictured as prints in "American Architect and Building News". He is credited with the introduction of the bungalow to the United States through a house loosely of the type that he designed in Monument Beach, Massachusetts in 1879. Preston was an early historic preservationist. He was influential in the successful 1896 effort to prevent the Massachusetts state legislature from demolishing Boston's historic State House, which had been designed by the noted architect Charles Bulfinch and built in 1798. Bulfinch was also an architect of the Capitol building in Washington, D.C.  Preston ran his practice for many years from a commercial and office building located at 186 Devonshire Street. He designed Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Rogers Building in 1864, located on Boylston Street near Boston's Copley Square, which housed the school's architecture department. Floor plans for the building show a large, centrally located space devoted to an architectural library and museum. Drawings from the Study Collection were hung on the studio walls and numerous casts and other artifacts also lined the walls and picture rails.  Preston married Estelle M. Evans (1847–1920), whose father was the wealthy real estate developer Brice S. Evans, on December 6, 1866, and the couple had one son, Evans (1867–1900). William was an active member and fellow of the American Institute of Architects and served that organization in the office of first vice-president at the end of the 1890s. He was for many years a member of the Boston Society of Architects, and for thirty years served as its treasurer. He died at his home at 1063 Beacon Street in Brookline in 1910.
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] William Preston (Virginia soldier)  Colonel William Preston (December 25, 1729 – June 28, 1783)<ref name="Grave" /> played a crucial role in surveying and developing the western colonies, exerted great influence in the colonial affairs of his time, enslaved many people on his plantation, and founded a dynasty whose progeny would supply leaders of the South for nearly a century.<ref name="VolXIV2" /> He served in the Virginia House of Burgesses and was a colonel in the militia during the American Revolutionary War. He was one of the fifteen signatories of the Fincastle Resolutions.<ref name="VolXIV1" />  He was a founding trustee of Liberty Hall (later Washington and Lee University) when it was made into a college in 1776.<ref name="WillR" />  Section::::Personal life. William Preston was born on Christmas Day in 1729, in Limavady, Ireland, to Col. John Preston and his wife, Elizabeth. Elizabeth's father, Henry Patton, was a prominent shipwright and merchant, and her brother, James Patton, served with distinction in the Royal Navy. The Crown granted him between 100,000 and 120,000 acres in America to permit British colonization beyond the Blue Ridge Mountains.<ref name="Preston" /> The family immigrated to Augusta County, Virginia in 1738.<ref name="Osborn" /> Subsequent French and Indian resistance and reversal of British policy limited the impact of the family's grants, but Prestonsburg, Kentucky was named in John's honor.<ref name="rennick" />   In June 1752, William accompanied his uncle James Patton, acting as his secretary at the Logstown Treaty Conference. Patton arranged for William to be apprenticed to Thomas Lewis, the County Surveyor and Patton's cousin, and in November 1752, William was hired as a deputy surveyor. He later served as surveyor in Augusta, Botetourt, Fincastle, and Montgomery Counties, surveying 36 tracts for Patton along the New River.  In July 1755, William survived the Draper's Meadow massacre, an attack by the Shawnee against a settlement that was part of a property later known as Smithfield Plantation, that he purchased in 1773. He completed the construction of his Smithfield Plantation home in 1774.<ref name = "Mays2"/>  William served as a captain with the Virginia Regiment on the Sandy Creek Expedition in 1756, keeping a journal which serves as the only complete record of that campaign. Remaining in Virginia, William married Susanna Smith on January 17, 1761, and together they had 12 children. He and his family moved to Smithfield Plantation, in present-day Blacksburg, Virginia, in 1774, and it served as his final home.<ref name="FamTree" /> He previously lived at Greenfield Plantation in Fincastle, Botetourt County, Virginia.<ref name="DHR" />  At least 216 people were enslaved as workers at the Smithfield Plantation.<ref name="Pantation" /> In August 1759, William Preston purchased 16 enslaved people from a slave ship in a single purchase.<ref name="Pantation" />
What is the religion of William Preston? [SEP] Margaret Preston  Margaret Rose Preston (29 April 1875 – 28 May 1963) was an Australian painter and printmaker who is regarded as one of Australia's leading modernists of the early 20th century.<ref name=adb /> In her quest to foster an Australian "national art", she was also one of the first non-Indigenous Australian artists to use Aboriginal motifs in her work.<ref name=adb />
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP]  Cosmo Francesco Ruppi (6 June 1932 – 29 May 2011) was the Roman Catholic archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Lecce, Italy. Ordained in 1954, Ruppi was named a bishop and was appointed to the Lecce Archdiocese in 1988. Archbishop Ruppi retired in 2009.
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP]  Francesco Giorgi, (1467–1540) was a Venetian Franciscan friar and "has been considered a central figure in sixteenth-century Christian Kabbalah both by his contemporaries and by modern scholars". According to Giulio Busi, he was the most important Christian Kabbalist second to its founder Giovanni Pico della Mirandola. His, De harmonia mundi, was "a massive and curious book, all Hermetic, Platonic, Cabalistic, and Pinchian".
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP]  Society of Jesus in Milan. He was also from 1976 to 1983 a spiritual advisor to students of the Polytechnic Institute, the Academy of Fine Arts Brera and the Conservatory of Music "Giuseppe Verdi" in Milan. He became a member of the Order of Journalists in 1978. In 1982 he held the post of deputy director of the weekly La Vita Cattolica. From 1978 to 1983, he was Professor of Cultural Anthropology and Philosophy at the Catholic University of Milan and at the Higher Institute of Education Assistants in Milan. He joined the staff of the Section for General Affairs of
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP]  Pastafarianism, and the government has no right to decide which beliefs should be taken seriously and which should not, and that it is only up to the individual believers themselves to decide which elements of their religion to take seriously, and to what degree. On August 9, 2011 the chairman of the church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster Germany, Rüdiger Weida, obtained a driver's license with a picture of him wearing a pirate bandana. In contrast with the reasons given by the Austrian officials in the case of Niko Alm, the German officials allowed the headgear as a religious
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP]  Zuppi was born on 11 October 1955 in Rome. He studied at the seminary in Palestrina and earned his degree in theology at the Pontifical Lateran University in Rome. He earned a doctorate at the Sapienza University of Rome, writing his thesis on the history of Christianity. He was ordained a priest on 9 May 1981. He worked with the Community of Sant'Egidio, a Catholic lay association devoted to ecumenism and conflict resolution. He participated with several colleagues in negotiations that helped end the civil war in Mozambique in 1992 and was made an honorary citizen of that country. On 31 January 2012, Pope Benedict XVI named him an Auxiliary Bishop of the Diocese of Rome and titular bishop of Villa Nova.
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP] Marcello Semeraro  Marcello Semeraro (born 22 December 1947) is an Italian prelate of the Catholic Church who has been the Prefect of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints since October 2020. He was previously Bishop of Albano and secretary to the group of cardinals named by Pope Francis to advise him.  On 25 October 2020, Pope Francis announced he would raise him to the rank of cardinal at a consistory scheduled for 28 November 2020.
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP] Romuald  Romuald (; 951 – traditionally 19 June, c. 1025/27 AD) was the founder of the Camaldolese order and a major figure in the eleventh-century "Renaissance of eremitical asceticism". Romuald spent about 30 years traversing Italy, founding and reforming monasteries and hermitages.
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP] Nicola Riezzo  Nicola Riezzo (11 December 1904 - 20 August 1998) was an Italian Roman Catholic prelate who served as the Archbishop of Otranto from 1969 until his retirement in 1981. He had served prior to this as the Bishop of Castellaneta and concurrent to his term in office as an apostolic administrator for another diocese. Riezzo was well known for his holiness, with the priests in his diocese coming to love and admire him due to his careful attention to evangelization and catechesis.<ref name=DL/><ref name=SEB/> He had served as a professor following his ordination in Assisi and Molfetta prior to being nominated to the episcopate. Following his retirement in 1981 he moved to his hometown where he served as a pastor in his childhood San Nicola parish where he was known for remaining for extended periods in the confessional and out visiting the sick.<ref name=SEB/>  His holiness had been noted as a bishop in both dioceses and steps were taken after his death in 1998 in order to launch the cause for his beatification. These initial steps culminated in 2004 after the cause commenced and Riezzo was titled as a Servant of God.<ref name=SEB/>
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Lecce  The Archdiocese of Lecce () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory or archdiocese of the Catholic Church in Apulia, southern Italy. The diocese has existed since the 11th century. On 28 September 1960, in the bull "Cum a nobis", Pope John XXIII separated the diocese of Lecce from the ecclesiastical province of Otranto and made it directly subject to the Holy See. In the bull "Conferentia Episcopalis Apuliae" issued on 20 October 1980, Pope John Paul II created the ecclesiastical province of Lecce, with the Archdiocese of Otranto becoming a suffragan diocese.
What is the religion of Cosmo Francesco Ruppi? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Conversano-Monopoli  The Italian Roman Catholic diocese of Conversano-Monopoli (), in Apulia, has existed since 1986, when the diocese of Monopoli was united with the historic diocese of Conversano. The diocese is a suffragan of the Archdiocese of Bari-Bitonto.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]  José Palmeira Lessa (January 18, 1942) is a prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He served as auxiliary bishop of São Sebastião do Rio de Janeiro from 1982 till 1987, when he became bishop of Propriá. In 1996 he became coadjutor archbishop of Aracajú, succeeding as archbishop in 1998.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]  Born in Coruripe, Palmeira Lessa was ordained to the priesthood on July 3, 1968. On June 21, 1982, he was appointed auxiliary bishop of São Sebastião do Rio de Janeiro and titular bishop of Sita. Palmeira Lessa received his episcopal consecration on the following August 24 from Eugênio Cardinal de Araújo Sales, archbishop of São Sebastião do Rio de Janeiro, with the bishop of Guaxupé, José Alberto Lopes de Castro Pinto, and the bishop of Vitória da Conquista, Celso José Pinto da Silva, serving as co-consecrators. On October 30, 1987, he was appointed bishop of Propriá. He served in this position for nine years, before being appointed coadjutor archbishop of Aracajú on December 6, 1996, succeeding as archbishop on August 26, 1998 after the retirement of his predecessor Luciano José Cabral Duarte.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP] José Palmeira Lessa (1996-1998) ; João José da Costa, O. Carm. (2016-2017)
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]  Carlos Francisco Theodoro Machado Ribeiro de Lessa, better known simply as Carlos Lessa (30 July 1936 – 5 June 2020) was a Brazilian economist and professor.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]  Lessa was a huge fan of Brazilian Carnival and founded Minerva Assanhada, a Carnival block composed mostly of Federal University of Rio de Janeiro students and personnel. Lessa's son, Rodrigo Lessa is a singer-songwriter and Multi-instrumentalist. On 5 June 2020, Lessa died in Rio de Janeiro at the age of 83 due to complications brought on by COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Brazil.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Aracaju  The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Aracaju () is a Latin Metropolitan archdiocese in the State of Sergipe, northeastern Brazil. Its cathedral archiepiscopal see is Our Lady of the Conception Cathedral ("Catedral Metropolitana Nossa Senhora da Conceiçao"), dedicated to Our Lady of Immaculate Conception, in the city of Aracaju. Two World Heritage Sites are owned by the Archdiocese in São Cristóvão, Sergipe: the Misericórdia Hospital and Church ("Igreja de Santa Casa de Misericórdia") and the Church and Convent of Santa Cruz, also known as the Church and Convent of Saint Francis.
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]
What is the religion of José Palmeira Lessa? [SEP]
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP]  Niccolò Marini (20 August 1843 – 27 July 1923) was an Italian Cardinal of the Catholic Church who served as secretary of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches from 1917 to 1922, and was elevated to the cardinalate in 1916.
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP]  later. Marini was highly active in pursuing greater unity between the Eastern Christianity and the Western Church. It was this pursuit that took him on travels to the Holy Land, Egypt, Greece, and North Africa. Within the Roman Curia, he was made a consultor to the Sacred Congregation of Studies (10 October 1902), Pontifical Biblical Commission (1911), Commission for the Codification of Canon Law (9 March 1912), and to the liturgical section of the Sacred Congregation of Rites (26 March 1914). He was appointed Secretary of the Supreme Tribunal of the Apostolic Signature on 20 October 1908. As Secretary, Marini served as
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP]  Marini was born in Rome, and was a relative of Pietro Cardinal Marini. He studied at the Collegio Capranica; the Pontifical Gregorian University, from where he obtained his doctorates in philosophy, in theology, and in canon and civil law; and the Royal University of Rome. He was ordained to the priesthood on 26 June 1866, and then did pastoral work in Rome. Founder of the Catholic daily Il buon senso, he also worked with Catholic Action in creating the women's club Gaetana Agnesi. He was later named vicar general of Cardinal Luigi Oreglia di Santo Stefano. He became an official of the
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP]  second-highest official of the dicastery, under Cardinal Vincenzo Vannutelli. He was highly decorated as well, having been made Commander of the Order of Isabella the Catholic (Spain), of the Order of the Crown of Prussia, and of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre, and an Officer of the Légion d'honneur. Pope Benedict XV created him Cardinal-Deacon of Santa Maria in Domnica in the consistory of 4 December 1916. Marini, who never became a bishop, was named to the Commission of Historical Studies on 4 January 1917. He was made Secretary of the Sacred Congregation for the Oriental Churches on 29 November
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP]  Antonio Marini (27 May 1788 – 10 September 1861) was an Italian painter, mainly of sacred subjects for churches in Tuscany. He is distinct from the Antonio Maria Marini from Venice.
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP] Marini  Marini (last name) is a surname of Roman/Italian Catholic origin; closely associated with the last names: Marino and Mariani with the three patronymic forms emerging from the same region at approximately the same time. Migrations branching from Italy ca.1600 gave rise to their modern forms as surnames. The Marinid dynasty was a Sunni Muslim dynasty of Zenata Berber descent that ruled Morocco from the 13th to the 15th century.  Notable people with the Marini surname include:
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP] Cardinal electors for the 1922 papal conclave  The 53 cardinal electors in the 1922 papal conclave are listed by region, and within each alphabetically by country. Seven out of the sixty electors did not participate, three for reasons of health: José María Martín de Herrera y de la Iglesia, Giuseppe Antonio Ermenegildo Prisco, and Lev Skrbenský z Hříště. Joaquim Arcoverde de Albuquerque Cavalcanti of São Sebastião do Rio de Janeiro knew he could not reach Rome in time for the conclave and did not attempt the journey. The other three non-European cardinals–William Henry O'Connell of Boston, Denis Dougherty of Philadelphia, and Louis-Nazaire Bégin of Québec City–did not arrive in time to participate in the conclave. Within a month of his election, Pope Pius XI lengthened the waiting period before the start of a papal conclave to allow cardinals from distant places to participate in the balloting.
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP] Giovanni Tacci Porcelli  Giovanni Tacci Porcelli known as Giovanni Tacci (12 November 1863 – 30 June 1928) was an Italian prelate of the Catholic Church who was Bishop of Città della Pieve for twenty years, then a papal ambassador, and finally secretary of the Congregation for the Oriental Churches from 1922 to 1927. He was made a cardinal in 1921.
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP] Almo Collegio Capranica  The Almo Collegio Capranica is the oldest Roman college, founded in 1457 by Cardinal Domenico Capranica (1400–1458) in his own palace for thirty young clerics, who received an education suitable to prepare them for the priesthood.
What is the religion of Niccolò Marini? [SEP] Dicastery for the Eastern Churches  The Dicastery for the Eastern Churches (also called Dicastery for the Oriental Churches), previously named Congregation for the Oriental Churches (), is a dicastery of the Roman Curia responsible for contact with the Eastern Catholic churches for the sake of assisting their development and protecting their rights. It also maintains whole and entire in the one Catholic Church the heritage and canon law of the various Eastern Catholic traditions. It has exclusive authority over the following regions: Egypt and the Sinai Peninsula, Eritrea and northern Ethiopia, southern Albania and Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Iran, Iraq, Lebanon, Israel (and Palestinian territories), Syria, Jordan and Turkey, and also oversees jurisdictions based in Romania, Southern Italy, Hungary, India and Ukraine.  It was founded by the "motu proprio" "Dei providentis" of Pope Benedict XV as the "Sacred Congregation for the Oriental Church" on 1 May 1917.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]  James Godfrey MacManaway, MBE (22 April 1898 – 3 November 1951) was a British Unionist politician and Church of Ireland cleric, notable for being disqualified as a Member of Parliament, owing to his status as a priest.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]  James Godfrey MacManaway was born in County Tyrone in 1898, the youngest son of the Rt. Rev. James MacManaway, Church of Ireland Bishop of Clogher. He was educated at Campbell College, Belfast, and Trinity College, Dublin. He served in the Royal Flying Corps during the First World War, having enlisted at the age of 17. In 1925 MacManaway was ordained as a priest of the Church of Ireland by the Bishop of Armagh. He married Catherine Anne Swetenham Trench, née Lecky, in 1926. He was Rector of Christ Church, Derry from 1930 to 1947. He served as Chaplain to Forces during the Second World War. In 1945 he was awarded an MBE.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]   James MacManaway  (1860 – 29 November 1947) was an Anglican bishop. Born in County Roscommon in 1860, MacManaway was educated at Trinity College, Dublin and ordained in 1888. He was Curate of Clanabogan then Rector of Termonmaguirk; and after that the incumbent at Fivemiletown. He became a Canon of St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin, in 1912 and Archdeacon of Clogher in 1917. He was appointed Bishop of Clogher in 1923 and served the diocese for 20 years. He died on 29 November 1947. MacManaway married Sarah Thompson from Co. Kilkenny with whom he had sons Lancelot, Richard and James Godfrey and Daughter Mary. His son, James Godfrey MacManaway, was also a Church of Ireland clergyman and became a politician.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]  James MacCash (1834–1922) was the founder of the Order of Scottish Clans and founded it while celebrating his birthday in St. Louis in 1878. Born in Springburn, Glasgow, Scotland, he emigrated to the United States of America in 1865. He died at St. Louis, Missouri, and is interred at Bellefontaine Cemetery.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]  He was born in Aird Tong on the 9th of April, 1954 on the Isle of Lewis and studied Hebrew and Medieval History at Glasgow University from 1981 to 1984, graduating MA. After a year at London University he took a Diploma in Theology at the Free Church College, Edinburgh in 1987. In September 1987 he was ordained into the Free Church of East Kilbride. In 1997 he became minister of Knock on the Isle of Lewis. He was replaced there by Rev Iain Donald Campbell. In 2016 he moved to be minister of the Free Church on Kenneth Street in Stornoway to replace Rev Iver Martin.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP] James Hanna McCormick  LieutenantColonel JamesHannaMcCormick, (September1875 – May1955) was a professional soldier and UlsterUnionistParty politician.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP] Maurice Day (bishop of Clogher)  Maurice Day (2 September 1843 – 27 May 1923) was an Anglican bishop in the early 20th century.  He was born on Valentia Island, County Kerry on 2 September 1843 into an ecclesiastical family, the son of the Very Reverend John Godfrey Day, sometime Dean of Ardfert, and was educated at Trinity College, Dublin.  He held curacies at St Luke's, Cork and then St Matthias's, Dublin. He was Vicar of Greystones and then Killiney. In 1894 he returned to his old parish in Dublin as Rector, staying until 1905 when he became Dean of Ossory. He was appointed Bishop of Clogher in December 1907, and consecrated in January 1908 and died in post on 27 May 1923.  He married Charlotte Francis, the daughter of Herbert Taylor Ottley of Regent's Park. They had three sons and a daughter. A son John Godfrey Fitzmaurice Day was elected Archbishop of Armagh in 1938.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP]
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP] Campbell College  Campbell College located in Belfast, Northern Ireland and founded in 1894 comprises a preparatory school department (junior age) and a senior Northern Ireland 'Voluntary Grammar' school, the latter meaning, in terms of provision of education, a government funded, selective school.  The school is one of a number of schools in the state funded grammar sector in Northern Ireland which can offer paid boarding places to some pupils, typically to be funded by the pupil, although the majority of pupils are day pupils.  It is one of the eight schools of Northern Ireland represented on the Headmasters' and Headmistresses' Conference and is a member of the Independent Schools Council.
What is the religion of James MacManaway? [SEP] Richard Tyner  Richard Tyner (1 October 1877 – 6 April 1958) was an Irish Anglican bishop.  Richard Styner was born in Castlepollard, County Westmeath, Ireland and educated at Trinity College, Dublin. He was ordained in 1910. He was a curate at St Cyllin Monaghan and then held incumbencies at Clontibret, Ematris and Rockcorry. He was appointed the 52nd Bishop of Clogher in 1943 And served until 1958. He died in Monaghan, aged 80.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]  Bernard Yago (July 1916 &ndash; 5 October 1997) was an Ivoirian Cardinal of the Catholic Church. He served as Archbishop of Abidjan from 1960 to 1994 and was made cardinal in 1983.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]  Bernard Yago was born in Pass, Yopougon, and studied at the seminary in Abidjan before being ordained to the priesthood on 1 May 1947. He then served as a professor at the Minor Seminary of Bingerville and as director of the Pre-Seminary École de Petit Clerics until 1956, whence he began pastoral work in Abidjan until 1957. Yago furthered his studies at the Catholic Institute of Paris from 1957 to 1959. Upon his return to Côte d'Ivoire, he was Counselor of Catholic Action in Abidjan from until 1960. On 5 April 1960, Yago was appointed Archbishop of Abidjan by Pope John XXIII. He received his episcopal consecration on the following 8 May
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]  Bernard Faure (born 1948) is a Franco-American author and scholar of Asian religions, who focuses on Chan/Zen and Japanese esoteric Buddhism. His work draws on cultural theory, anthropology, and gender studies. He is currently a Kao Professor of Japanese Religion at Columbia University and an Emeritus Professor of Religious Studies (and formerly Professor of Chinese Religions) at Stanford University. He also previously taught at Cornell University, and has been a visiting a professor at the University of Tokyo, the University of Sydney, and the École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris. He co-founded the Center for Buddhist Studies at Stanford University and the ARC: Asian Religions and Cultures Series within Stanford University Press. He is also the founder and co-director of the Columbia Center for Buddhism and East Asian Religions (C-BEAR). His work has been translated into several Asian and European languages.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]  Bernard de Montréal was born in Montreal, Quebec, Canada on July 26, 1939. The author received his early education at Collège Sainte-Croix, a Catholic classical institution. After graduation, he went on to study anthropology at the University of Albuquerque in New Mexico. While in New Mexico, Bernard de Montréal experienced a transformation that was the starting point for his exploration of the human mind through telepsychism. From then onwards, he began conscious channeling, a practice that would launch his life's work, on a variety of topics ranging from paranormal phenomena to evolutionary psychology. In addition to three published books and numerous conferences and seminars, he was introduced to Quebec audiences by esotericist and ufologist Richard Glenn's TV show Ésotérisme expérimental in 1977. He thereafter continued teaching and speaking in public until his death in 2003.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]  Karrica is a Christian, who crosses himself when entering the field.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP] St. Ann Cathedral, Gagnoa  The St. Ann Cathedral () is located in the town of Gagnoa, in the African country of Ivory Coast, and is one of that country's most important religious buildings. It was formerly an old parish church, but became a cathedral of the Roman Catholic Church on February 3, 1957. Monsignor Barthélémy Djabla was buried here in 2008.  It serves as the center of the Archdiocese of Gagnoa ("Archidiocèse de Gagnoa"; "Archidioecesis Gagnoaënsis") one of the four existing in Ivory Coast, and the center of the ecclesiastical province of Gagnoa.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP] Deaths in October 1997  The following is a list of notable deaths in October 1997.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP] Facundo Arana  Jorge Facundo Arana Tagle (born March 31, 1972) is an Argentine actor and musician. He is the winner of various awards for television and theater in Argentina. Arana is also noted for his charity work.
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP]
What is the religion of Bernard Yago? [SEP] Saint-Domingue  Saint-Domingue () was a French colony in the western portion of the Caribbean island of Hispaniola, in the area of modern-day Haiti, from 1659 to 1804. The name derives from the Spanish main city in the island, Santo Domingo, which came to refer specifically to the Spanish-held Captaincy General of Santo Domingo, now the Dominican Republic. The borders between the two were fluid and changed over time until they were finally solidified in the Dominican War of Independence in 1844.  The French had established themselves on the western portion of the islands of Hispaniola and Tortuga by 1659. In the Treaty of Ryswick of 1697, Spain formally recognized French control of Tortuga Island and the western third of the island of Hispaniola. In 1791, slaves and some Dominican Creoles took part in the Vodou ceremony Bois Caïman and planned the Haitian Revolution. The slave rebellion later allied with Republican French forces following the abolition of slavery in the colony in 1793, although this alienated the island's dominant slave-owning class. France controlled the entirety of Hispaniola from 1795 to 1802, when a renewed rebellion began. The last French troops withdrew from the western portion of the island in late 1803, and the colony later declared its independence as Haiti, its indigenous name, the following year.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]   Jean-Claude Schmitt (born 4 March 1946 in Colmar) is a prominent French medievalist, the former student of Jacques Le Goff, associated with the work of the Annales School. He studies the socio-cultural aspects of medieval history in Western Europe and has made important contributions in his use of anthropological and art historical methods to interpret history. His most significant work has dealt with the relationships among elites and laymen in medieval life, particularly in the realm of religious culture, where he has focused on ideas and topics such as superstition, the occult and heresy in order to flesh out the differing world-views of the lay peasantry and the clerical elites who attempted to define religious practice. He has contributed numerous books, articles and encyclopedia entries on these and related topics. He has also written widely on the cult of saints, the idea of
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]  Bernard Schweizer (née Bernhard Schweizer, 1962-) is a professor of English at Long Island University, Brooklyn. He has published several books and essay collections on topics in British and European literatures. He is a leading Rebecca West scholar and has edited or co-edited a number of Rebecca West’s previously unpublished and uncollected works. In 2003, he founded the International Rebecca West Society in New York and was the second president of the Society. In 2013, Schweizer founded another scholarly organization, the International Society for Heresy Studies, whose vice-president he currently is. Heresy studies is designed to provide an intellectual platform for philosophers, literary critics, theologians, historians, and artists who are interested in the dialectic between heterodoxy and orthodoxy, and who want to
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]  Bernard Schmitt (1929 in Colmar, France &ndash; 2014 in Beaune, France) was a French economist, founder of the school of economic thought known as 'quantum macroeconomics'. During his doctoral research (Paris, 1958) he studies at the University of Cambridge (UK), under the supervision of Piero Sraffa and Dennis Robertson. In 1954, he becomes a member of the Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique (CNRS), in Paris. His works on macroeconomic theory and monetary analysis have been awarded with two medals by the CNRS, in 1961 and in 1973. He was professor in monetary macroeconomics at the University of Dijon, France, and at the University of Fribourg, Switzerland.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]  Walter Isidor Siegmeister (October 5 or 6, 1903 – September 10, 1965),   later known as Raymond W. Bernard, was an early 20th-century American alternative health advocate and esoteric writer, who formed part of the alternative reality subculture. He is credited with the merger of the Hollow Earth theory and religious beliefs about UFOs.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]  Adolph Gregory Schmitt, C.M.M. (20 April 1905 &ndash; 5 December 1976) was German Prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. He was killed by a black nationalist guerilla during the Rhodesian Bush War in 1976.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP] Bernard William Schmitt  Bernard William Schmitt (August 17, 1928, Wheeling, West Virginia – August 16, 2011, Wheeling, West Virginia) was an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church who served as Bishop of Wheeling-Charleston from March 29, 1989 to December 9, 2004.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP] Michael J. Bransfield  Michael Joseph Bransfield (born September 8, 1943) is an American prelate of the Roman Catholic Church. Bransfield served as bishop of the Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston in West Virginia from 2005 to 2018.  After Bransfield retired in 2018, a church investigation led by Archbishop William E. Lori and five lay experts examined "multiple allegations of sexual harassment of adults and financial improprieties" leveled against him. The report found that the accusations of sexual harassment were credible and detailed Bransfield's diversion of diocesan funds to support a lavish lifestyle.  In July 2019, Pope Francis banned Bransfield from residing in the Diocese of Wheeling-Charleston and ordered him not to “preside or to participate anywhere in any public celebration of the Liturgy," thus barring him from engaging in public ministry within the Catholic Church.<ref name="thehillspeaks" /> Church leaders—some of whom had previously received gifts from Bransfield—were criticized for failing to respond to initial complaints concerning Bransfield and for later weakening restitution requirements.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP] Roman Catholic Diocese of Wheeling–Charleston  The Diocese of Wheeling–Charleston () is a Latin Church ecclesiastical territory or diocese of the Catholic Church comprising the U.S. state of West Virginia. The Ordinary is the Most. Rev. Mark E. Brennan. The diocese maintains two cathedrals: the Cathedral of Saint Joseph in Wheeling, West Virginia, and the Basilica of the Co-Cathedral of the Sacred Heart in Charleston, West Virginia. The Diocese of Wheeling–Charleston is a suffragan diocese in the ecclesiastical province of the metropolitan Archdiocese of Baltimore.
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP]
What is the religion of Bernard William Schmitt? [SEP] Eric Schmitt  Eric Schmitt could refer to:
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]  James Toru Uno was the Anglican Bishop of Osaka prior to the consecration of Samuel Osamu Onishi in September 2008.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]  Edwin Oliver James (1888 – 1972) was an anthropologist in the field of comparative religion. He was Professor Emeritus of the History and Philosophy of Religion in the University of London, Fellow of University College London and Fellow of King's College London. During his long career he had been Professor of History and Philosophy of Religion at the University of Leeds, Lecturer at the University of Amsterdam and Wilde Lecturer at the University of Oxford. James received his education at Exeter College, Oxford and at University College London, where he studied under the noted egyptologist Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie. James was also a member of the Folklore Society, serving as its President from 1930 to 1932.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]  James was frequently criticized for expressing too much of his religious beliefs in his governing. At a 1995 Alabama State Board of Education meeting, James criticized the teaching of evolution in textbooks by imitating a "slump-shouldered ape turning into an upright human". He supported the adoption of a textbook warning sticker that said, among other things, that "No one was present when life first appeared on earth. Therefore, any statement about life's origins should be considered as theory, not fact." James's most publicized religious battle was the lengthy controversy surrounding Etowah County Judge Roy S. Moore's posting of the Ten Commandments in his courtroom and the offering of a daily Christian prayer before proceedings. The American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) sued to have the practice stopped as unconstitutional. U.S. District Court Judge Ira DeMent, an appointee
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]  Ankrah is a Christian.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]  He is a Christian.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP] James Cameron  James Francis Cameron (born August 16, 1954) is a Canadian filmmaker. A major figure in the post-New Hollywood era, he is considered one of the industry's most innovative filmmakers, regularly pushing the boundaries of cinematic capability with his use of novel technologies. He first gained recognition for writing and directing "The Terminator" (1984) and found further success with "Aliens" (1986), "The Abyss" (1989), "" (1991), and the action comedy "True Lies" (1994). He wrote and directed "Titanic" (1997) and "Avatar" (2009), with "Titanic" earning him Academy Awards for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Film Editing. A recipient of various other industry accolades, two of his films have been selected for preservation in the National Film Registry by the Library of Congress.  Cameron co-founded the production companies Lightstorm Entertainment, Digital Domain, and Earthship Productions. In addition to filmmaking, he is a National Geographic sea explorer and has produced many documentaries on the subject, including "Ghosts of the Abyss" (2003) and "Aliens of the Deep" (2005). Cameron has also contributed to underwater filming and remote vehicle technologies and helped create the digital 3D Fusion Camera System. In 2012, Cameron became the first person to do a solo descent to the bottom of the Mariana Trench, the deepest part of the Earth's ocean, in the "Deepsea Challenger" submersible.  Cameron's films have grossed approximately USD $2.5 billion in North America and $8 billion worldwide. "Avatar" and "Titanic" are the highest and third highest-grossing films of all time, earning $2.91 billion and $2.19 billion, respectively. Cameron holds the achievement of having directed the first two of the five films in history to gross over $2 billion worldwide. In 2010, "Time" named Cameron as one of the 100 most influential people in the world. Cameron is also an environmentalist and runs several sustainability businesses.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP] James Watson  James Dewey Watson (born April 6, 1928) is an American molecular biologist, geneticist, and zoologist. In 1953, he co-authored with Francis Crick the academic paper proposing the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. Watson, Crick and Maurice Wilkins were awarded the 1962 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine "for their discoveries concerning the molecular structure of nucleic acids and its significance for information transfer in living material". In subsequent years, it has been recognized that Watson and his colleagues did not properly attribute colleague Rosalind Franklin for her contributions to the discovery of the double helix structure.  Watson earned degrees at the University of Chicago (BS, 1947) and Indiana University (PhD, 1950). Following a post-doctoral year at the University of Copenhagen with Herman Kalckar and Ole Maaløe, Watson worked at the University of Cambridge's Cavendish Laboratory in England, where he first met his future collaborator Francis Crick. From 1956 to 1976, Watson was on the faculty of the Harvard University Biology Department, promoting research in molecular biology.  From 1968, Watson served as director of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory (CSHL), greatly expanding its level of funding and research. At CSHL, he shifted his research emphasis to the study of cancer, along with making it a world-leading research center in molecular biology. In 1994, he started as president and served for 10 years. He was then appointed chancellor, serving until he resigned in 2007 after making comments claiming that there is a genetic link between intelligence and race. In 2019, following the broadcast of a documentary in which Watson reiterated these views on race and genetics, CSHL revoked his honorary titles and severed all ties with him.  Watson has written many science books, including the textbook "Molecular Biology of the Gene" (1965) and his bestselling book "The Double Helix" (1968). Between 1988 and 1992, Watson was associated with the National Institutes of Health, helping to establish the Human Genome Project, which completed the task of mapping the human genome in 2003.
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP] Jihadi John  Mohammed Emwazi (born Muhammad Jassim Abdulkarim Olayan al-Dhafiri; ; 17 August 1988 – 12 November 2015) was a British militant of Kuwaiti origin believed to be the person seen in several videos produced by the Islamist extremist group ISIL showing the beheadings of a number of captives in 2014 and 2015. A group of his hostages nicknamed him "John" since he was part of a four-person terrorist cell with English accents whom they called "The Beatles"; the press later began calling him "Jihadi John".<ref name=indnot />  On 12 November 2015, U.S. officials reported that Emwazi had been hit by a drone strike in Raqqa, Syria. His death was confirmed by ISIL in January 2016.<ref name="cnn_obituary"/>
What is the religion of James Uno? [SEP]
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP]  Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez (May 19, 1929 &ndash; February 19, 2013) was the first Roman Catholic Bishop and Bishop Emeritus of the Diocese of Jinotega.
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP]  He was born in Jinotega on May 19, 1929 to Fidel Vilchez Zelaya and Pastora Vilchez. He was baptized in the San Juan de Jinotega parish by the priest Alberto Valencia of that same year. Ordained to the priesthood in 1958, he was named bishop of the Diocese of Jinotega, Nicaragua, in 1984 and retired in 2005.
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez, appointed Bishop of Jinotega in 1982
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] Francisco Javier Rodríguez Vílchez (born 1978), Spanish footballer who currently plays for Alicante CF, as a striker ; Manuel Vilchez (born 1961), former Venezuelan boxer ; Nidia Vílchez, Peruvian politician and Congresswoman representing Junín for the 2006–2011 term ; Oscar Vílchez (born 1986), Peruvian football attacking midfielder, currently playing for Alianza Lima ; Walter Vílchez (born 1982), Peruvian football player Vílchez or Vilchez is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez (1982–2005) ; Carlos Enrique Herrera Gutiérrez, O.F.M. (2005– )
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] Deaths in February 2013  The following is a list of notable deaths in February 2013.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] "gentle, learned, considerate of the feelings of others". When summoned to the court of the young Emperor (negusä nägäst) Za Dengel, his knowledge of Amharic and Ge'ez, as well as his knowledge of Ethiopian customs impressed the sovereign so much that Za Dengel decided to convert from the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahido Church to Catholicism—although Páez warned him not to announce his declaration too quickly. However, when Za Dengel proclaimed changes in the observance of the Sabbath, Páez retired to Fremona, and waited out the ensuing civil war that ended with the emperor's death. This caution benefited Páez when Susenyos I
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] ascent of Henry IV to the throne (1454), he was named Canceller Major de La Poridad, replacing Rodrigo de Villacorta, who was in disagreement with the monarch. In 1456, he was nominated by the king as Roman Catholic Diocese of Ávila and confirmed by Pope Paul II, vacant since the death of Alonso Tostado, where he served until his death in 1469. During the Spanish civil war against Alfonso of Castile, he was a supporter of Henry IV of Castile. Martín Fernández de Vilches Martín Fernández de Vilches (also "Martín de Vilches") (born Vilches, Kingdom of Jaén, ? – Bonilla
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] so-called "new paradigms" being un-covered by the sciences of religion that are currently confronting religions and spirituality, and which many consider to be a "new axial time" into which we as humanity are shifting. And to this he has devoted his recent years. José María Vigil (theologian) José María VIGIL (Zaragoza, Spain, August 22, 1946) is a Latin American theologian highly recognized in the fields of the theology and spirituality of liberation, theology of religious pluralism, and new paradigms. He has been a Roman Catholic priest of the Claretian Missionaries since 1964 and since 1971 has been a naturalized Nicaraguan
What is the religion of Pedro Lisímaco de Jesús Vílchez Vílchez? [SEP] Passion of Jesus Christ our good or Rules Confraternity Betlemitas. He is considered the great evangelist of the West Indies, just as San Francisco Javier is to the East Indies. Brother Pedro attended to the poor, sick, orphaned, and dying, and was an early promoter of Human Rights. Additionally, he was the first literacy advocate in America, and the Order of Betlemitas in turn was the first religious order born in the Americas. The Santo Hermano Pedro was a man ahead of his time, both in his methods of teaching reading and writing to the illiterate and in medical patient
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]  Robert Stockman (born October 6, 1953) is a scholar specializing in Baháʼí studies who has been called "the foremost historian of the Baháʼí Faith in America." He received his undergraduate degree from Wesleyan University (B.A., 1975) and a doctorate in religious studies from Harvard University (Th.D., 1990).
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]  .
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]  Robert LeGrand Backman (born March 22, 1922) was a Utah lawyer and politician and has been a general authority of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) since 1978.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]  Robert A. Morey (November 13, 1946 – January 5, 2019) was a Christian apologist and pastor who wrote a number of books and pamphlets. He criticized Islam, Wicca, and non-Evangelical Christian beliefs. He was the founder of the unaccredited California Biblical University and Seminary.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]  Robert S. Wood (born December 25, 1936) has had a career in the dual areas of state and religion, both as a leader and advisor to senior civilian and military officials of the United States Government in the area of National security affairs, and as a leader in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church).
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP] Henry Hart Milman  Henry Hart Milman (10 February 1791 – 24 September 1868) was an English historian and ecclesiastic.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP] John Millman  John H. Millman  (born 14 June 1989) is an Australian professional tennis player and commentator. He reached a career-high singles ranking of world No. 33 in October 2018. He has won one ATP title in his career.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP] Meaning-making  In psychology, meaning-making is the process of how people construe, understand, or make sense of life events, relationships, and the self.  The term is widely used in constructivist approaches to counseling psychology and psychotherapy, especially during bereavement in which people attribute some sort of meaning to an experienced death or loss. The term is also used in educational psychology.  In a broader sense, meaning-making is the main research object of semiotics, biosemiotics, and other fields.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP] John Pratt (archdeacon of Calcutta)  John Henry Pratt FRS (4 June 1809 – 28 December 1871) was a British clergyman, astronomer and mathematician. A Cambridge Apostle, he joined the British East India Company in 1838 as a chaplain and later became Archdeacon of Calcutta. Although nominated as Bishop of Calcutta, the decision was rescinded at the last moment with George Cotton being appointed to the position. A gifted mathematician who worked on problems of geodesy and earth science, he was approached by the Surveyor General of India to examine the errors in surveys resulting from the attraction of the plumb-line to the mass of the Himalayan mountains. This led him to develop a theory based on a fluid earth of crustal balance which became the basis for the isostasy principle. He died in India of cholera while on a visit to Ghazipur.
What is the religion of Robert Milman? [SEP]
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]  Kenneth Graham Bevan (27 September 1898 – 3 December 1993) was an Anglican missionary bishop in China.
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]  Bevan was born in 1898, in Hampstead, where his father was a curate. He was the son of the Rev. James Alfred Bevan, who had captained Wales in their first international rugby union match, and his wife Annie. He was educated at Great Yarmouth Grammar School and the London College of Divinity.
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]  He was ordained deacon in 1923, and priest in 1924, and was then a curate at Holy Trinity, Tunbridge Wells (now Trinity Theatre) before missionary service with the Anglican-Episcopal Province of China from 1925. Consecrated a bishop in 1940 in Holy Trinity Cathedral, Shanghai, for 10 years he was Bishop of Eastern Szechwan. The obituary in the Church Times stated that: "His diocese was wild and mountainous, and in travelling round it he was reduced, he said, to carrying only a Bible and a toothbrush." Following the end of the Chinese Civil War and the Communist takeover of China, Bevan returned to England and became the vicar of Woolhope (1951-1966)), during which time he was also rural dean of Hereford (1955-1966) and Prebendary de Moreton et Whaddon at Hereford Cathedral (1956-1966). On retirement in 1966 he became Master of Archbishop Holgate's Hospital in Hemsworth and then an assistant bishop in the Diocese of Wakefield for a further 11 years. During that time, he founded the Retired Clergy Association.
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]  all religions – ancestor worship". In Parliament, he became noticed as a harsh critic of those he felt opposed the working man and woman. His targets included the Conservative Winston Churchill and the Liberal David Lloyd George, as well as Ramsay MacDonald and Margaret Bondfield from his own Labour party (he targeted the latter for her unwillingness to increase unemployment benefits). He had solid support from his constituency, being one of the few Labour MPs to be unopposed in the 1931 General Election, and this support grew through the 1930s and the period of the Great Depression. Soon after Bevan entered Parliament, he was briefly
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]  Andrew David Gilroy Bevan (10 April 1928 – 12 October 1996) was a British Conservative politician. He was Member of Parliament for Birmingham Yardley from 1979, until he lost the seat by 162 votes to future Labour minister Estelle Morris in 1992. He was Chairman of the Parliamentary All-Party Tourism Committee and Chairman of the Conservative Parliamentary Backbench Tourism Committee for several successive parliaments until he lost his seat in 1992, and did much to promote the British tourism industry.
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP]
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP] Ernest Bevin  Ernest Bevin (9 March 1881 – 14 April 1951) was a British statesman, trade union leader, and Labour Party politician. He co-founded and served as General Secretary of the powerful Transport and General Workers' Union in the years 1922–1940, and served as Minister of Labour and National Service in the war-time coalition government. He succeeded in maximising the British labour supply, for both the armed services and domestic industrial production, with a minimum of strikes and disruption.  His most important role came as Foreign Secretary in the post-war Labour government, 1945–1951. He gained American financial support, strongly opposed communism, and aided in the creation of NATO. Bevin was also instrumental to the founding of the Information Research Department (IRD), a secret propaganda wing of the UK Foreign Office which specialised in disinformation, anti-communism, and pro-colonial propaganda. Bevin's tenure also saw the end of British rule in India and the independence of India and East and West Pakistan (Bangladesh and Pakistan), as well as the end of the Mandate of Palestine and the creation of the State of Israel. His biographer Alan Bullock said that Bevin "stands as the last of the line of foreign secretaries in the tradition created by Castlereagh, Canning and Palmerston in the first half of the 19th century".
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP] Vanessa Redgrave  Dame Vanessa Redgrave (born 30 January 1937) is an English actress and activist. Throughout her career spanning over seven decades, Redgrave has garnered numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Television Award, two Golden Globe Awards, two Cannes Film Festival Awards, two Primetime Emmy Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, a Volpi Cup and a Tony Award, making her one of the few performers to achieve the Triple Crown of Acting. She has also received various honorary awards, including the BAFTA Fellowship Award, the Golden Lion Honorary Award, and an induction into the American Theatre Hall of Fame.  Redgrave made her acting debut on stage with the production of "" in 1958. She rose to prominence in 1961 playing Rosalind in the Shakespearean comedy "As You Like It" with the Royal Shakespeare Company and has since starred in more than 35 productions in London's West End and on Broadway, winning the 1984 Olivier Award for Best Actress in a Revival for "The Aspern Papers", and the 2003 Tony Award for Best Actress in a Play for the revival of "Long Day's Journey into Night". She also received Tony nominations for "The Year of Magical Thinking" and "Driving Miss Daisy".  Redgrave made her film debut starring opposite her father in the medical drama "Behind the Mask" (1958), and rose to prominence with the satire "" (1966), which garnered her first of her six Academy Award nominations, winning Best Supporting Actress for "Julia" (1977). Her other nominations were for "Isadora" (1968), "Mary, Queen of Scots" (1971), "The Bostonians" (1984), and "Howards End" (1992). Among her other films are "A Man for All Seasons" (1966), "Blowup" (1966), "Camelot" (1967), "The Devils" (1971), "Murder on the Orient Express" (1974), "Prick Up Your Ears" (1987), "" (1996), "Atonement" (2007), "Letters to Juliet" (2010), "Coriolanus" (2011), and "The Butler" (2013).  A member of the Redgrave family of actors, she is the daughter of Sir Michael Redgrave and Lady Redgrave (Rachel Kempson), the sister of Lynn Redgrave and Corin Redgrave, the wife of Italian actor Franco Nero, the mother of actresses Joely Richardson and Natasha Richardson and of screenwriter and director Carlo Gabriel Nero, the aunt of British actress Jemma Redgrave, the mother-in-law of actor Liam Neeson and film producer Tim Bevan, and the grandmother of Daisy Bevan and Micheál and Daniel Neeson.
What is the religion of Kenneth Bevan? [SEP] Timothy Olyphant  Timothy David Olyphant ( ; born May 20, 1968) is an American actor. He made his acting debut in an off-Broadway theater in 1995, in "The Monogamist", and won the Theatre World Award for his performance, and then originated David Sedaris' "The Santaland Diaries" in 1996. He then branched out to film; in the early years of his career, he was often cast in supporting villainous roles, most notably in "Scream 2" (1997), "Go" (1999), "A Man Apart" (2003), "Gone in 60 Seconds" (2000), and "The Girl Next Door" (2004). He came to the attention of a wider audience with his portrayal of Sheriff Seth Bullock in HBO's western "Deadwood" (2004–2006), later reprising the role in "" (2019). He had starring roles in such films as "Catch and Release" (2006), "Hitman" (2007), "A Perfect Getaway" (2009), and "The Crazies" (2010), and he played the main antagonist, Thomas Gabriel, in "Live Free or Die Hard" (2007). Olyphant was a recurring guest star in season two of the FX legal thriller "Damages" (2009).  From 2010 to 2015, Olyphant starred as Deputy U.S. Marshal Raylan Givens in FX's modern-day Kentucky southern gothic "Justified", a performance for which he was nominated for a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series in 2011. Since the end of "Justified", Olyphant has starred in films such as "Mother's Day", "Snowden" (both 2016), "Once Upon a Time in Hollywood" (2019), and "Amsterdam" (2022). He has also had notable guest appearances in numerous television sitcoms including "The Office" (2010), "The Mindy Project" (2013), and "The Grinder" (2015–2016), for which he won a Critics' Choice Award. He also starred in the Netflix comedy series "Santa Clarita Diet" (2017–2019). In 2020, he played himself in a brief cameo, parodying his "Justified" character, in the NBC award-winning show "The Good Place". In the same year, he guest starred in season 10 of "Curb Your Enthusiasm", as well as in the fourth season of "Fargo" and the second season of "The Mandalorian" in the episode "" as Cobb Vanth, a role he later reprised in "The Book of Boba Fett".
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP]  Benjamin Marc Ramaroson, C.M. (born 25 April 1955 in Manakara) is Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Antsiranana in Madagascar.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP]  Benjamin Marc Balthason Ramaroson (born 1955 in Manakara) is a Malagasy clergyman and prelate for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Farafangana, and later Antsiranana. He was appointed bishop in 2005. He moved dioceses in 2013.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP]  Ramaroson was ordained as a priest on 15 August 1984 for the Congregation of the Mission. He was appointed as bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Farafangana by Pope Benedict XVI and consecrated in November 2005. As was appointed Archbishop of Antsiranana in November 2013 upon the retirement of Archbishop Michel Melo.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP]  Marc Jonathan Benjamin (born 31 October 1964) is a qualified lawyer and has held various leadership positions in NGOs and Jewish communal organisations, including as Chief Executive of the Board of Deputies of British Jews from January 2005 to May 2013 and Chief Operating Officer of World ORT from January 2014 to December 2015.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] MBE
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] Benjamin Marc Balthason Ramaroson  Benjamin Marc Balthason Ramaroson (born 1955 in Manakara) is a Malagasy clergyman and prelate for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Farafangana, and later Antsiranana. He was appointed bishop in 2005. He moved dioceses in 2013.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Antsiranana  The Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Antsiranana is one of five Metropolitan Latin Archdioceses in Madagascar. Although it has its ecclesiastical province, it remains subject to the missionary Roman Congregation for the Evangelization of Peoples.  Its cathedral archiepiscopal see is Cathedral of the Sacred Heart of Jesus, dedicated to the Sacred Heart of Jesus, in Antsiranana.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] Catholic Church in Madagascar  The Catholic Church in Madagascar is part of the worldwide Catholic Church, under the spiritual leadership of the Pope in Rome.  About one quarter of the population of Madagascar is Catholic – about four million adherents in total. There are 21 dioceses including five archdioceses. Below is a list of the archdioceses dioceses, and the archbishops and bishops of each.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] Politics of Madagascar  Politics of Madagascar takes place in a framework of a semi-presidential representative democratic republic, whereby the President of Madagascar is head of state and the Prime Minister of Madagascar is head of government, and of a pluriform multi-party system. Executive power is exercised by the government. Legislative power is vested in both the government and the Senate and the National Assembly. The Judiciary is independent of the executive and the legislature.
What is the religion of Benjamin Marc Ramaroson? [SEP] neighborhood, in Aracaju/SE. Benjamin's Spiritual Guide presents herself with the name of Eugênia-Aspásia. She oversees his initiatives and activities by means of a psychic communion that has been established in the course of three decades of a systematic exercise of his mediumistic faculties – a peculiar condition to mediums with collective responsibilities. The ISQ is a Christian-Spiritual school of thought (not for profit and detached from any formal religious movement), which aims to provide for the men and women of today an alternative for the experience of a progressive, ecumenical and rational-pragmatic spirituality, therefore contrary to dogmatic literalisms, sectarian pretensions
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]  Previously named the National Survey of Religious Identification in 1990, it was renamed the American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS) in 2001. The survey was originally created as a social experiment to record the response to the "What is your religion?" question. They found it was necessary to ask a series of questions such as "Do you want to have a religious funeral?" in order to get a better grasp of the answer to the main question. The 2001 survey intended to replicate the 1990 survey. Data was collected from over 50,000 households over a 4-month period. In 2008 the ARIS again randomly called over 50,000 households and questioned adults about their religious affiliations, if any. ARIS is the survey used by the U.S. Census in the Statistical Abstract of the U.S. to show the religious distribution of the U.S. Population. The results of the ARIS have been discussed in many news reports by ABC News, The Christian Science Monitor, and USA Today.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]  the Census Bureau collects its statistics directly from congregations rather than from the officers of corporations." So, "direct comparisons between the bodies as reported at the two censuses are impossible, [...] because of numerous organic changes," according to the United States Census Bureau. Which also stated "a reorganization since the census of 1916 makes it impossible to identify the whole group with any of the bodies formerly presented," in the 1916 data, under the name "Old Catholic Churches"; the reorganized ACC claimed 11 organizations, with a membership of 1,367 with two church edifices. There was one organization reporting a parsonage.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]  this long-standing and well-founded complaint of inaccurate Catholic statistics, the archbishops of the United States, at their annual conference in 1907, resolved to co-operate with the United States Census Bureau in an effort to collect correct figures. Archbishop Glennon of St. Louis was appointed a special census official by the Government for this purpose, and under his direction an enumeration of the Catholics of every parish in the United States was made. The figures thus obtained were used in the "Directory" for 1909. It is the first, therefore, of these publications giving statistics of population on which any reliance can be placed in respect to accuracy of detail.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]  The Annual Population Survey is a combined statistical survey of households in Great Britain which is conducted quarterly by the Office for National Statistics and combines results from the Labour Force Survey and the English, Welsh and Scottish Labour Force Survey, gathers information about the religious affiliation, reported in the table below. The change in the religious affiliation between the 2010 APS and the 2011 APS is due to a question change, which significantly influenced the final results.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]  Statistics on religious adherence are difficult to gather and often contradictory; statistics for the change of religious adherence are even more so, requiring multiple surveys separated by many years using the same data gathering rules. This has only been achieved in rare cases, and then only for particular countries, such as the American Religious Identification Survey in the United States, or census data from Australia (which has included a voluntary religious question since 1911).
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP] Church of England  The Church of England (C of E) is the established Christian church in England and the mother church of the international Anglican Communion. It traces its history to the Christian church recorded as existing in the Roman province of Britain by the 3rd century and to the 6th-century Gregorian mission to Kent led by Augustine of Canterbury. Its adherents are called "Anglicans".  The English church renounced papal authority in 1534 when Henry VIII failed to secure a papal annulment of his marriage to Catherine of Aragon. The English Reformation accelerated under Edward VI's regents, before a brief restoration of papal authority under Queen Mary I and King Philip. The Act of Supremacy 1558 renewed the breach, and the Elizabethan Settlement charted a course enabling the English church to describe itself as both Reformed and Catholic. In the earlier phase of the English Reformation there were both Roman Catholic martyrs and radical Protestant martyrs. The later phases saw the Penal Laws punish Roman Catholics and nonconforming Protestants. In the 17th century, the Puritan and Presbyterian factions continued to challenge the leadership of the church, which under the Stuarts veered towards a more Catholic interpretation of the Elizabethan Settlement, especially under Archbishop Laud and the rise of the concept of Anglicanism as a "via media" between Roman Catholicism and radical Protestantism. After the victory of the Parliamentarians, the Prayer Book was abolished and the Presbyterian and Independent factions dominated. The episcopacy was abolished in 1646 but the Restoration restored the Church of England, episcopacy and the Prayer Book. Papal recognition of George III in 1766 led to greater religious tolerance.  Since the English Reformation, the Church of England has used the English language in the liturgy. The church contains several doctrinal strands, the main three being known as Anglo-Catholic, evangelical and liberal. Tensions between theological conservatives and progressives find expression in debates over the ordination of women and homosexuality.  The British monarch (currently Charles III) is the supreme governor and the archbishop of Canterbury (currently Justin Welby) is the most senior cleric. The governing structure of the church is based on dioceses, each presided over by a bishop. Within each diocese are local parishes. The General Synod of the Church of England is the legislative body for the church and comprises bishops, other clergy and laity. Its measures must be approved by the Parliament of the United Kingdom.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP] Episcopal Church (United States)  The Episcopal Church, based in the United States with additional dioceses elsewhere, is a member church of the worldwide Anglican Communion. It is a mainline Protestant denomination and is divided into nine provinces. The presiding bishop of the Episcopal Church is Michael Bruce Curry, the first African-American bishop to serve in that position.  As of 2022, the Episcopal Church had 1,678,157 members, Pew Research estimated that 1.2 percent of the adult population in the United States, or 3 million people, self-identify as mainline Episcopalians. The church has recorded a regular decline in membership and Sunday attendance since the 1960s, particularly in the Northeast and Upper Midwest.  The church was organized after the American Revolution, when it became separate from the Church of England, whose clergy are required to swear allegiance to the British monarch as Supreme Governor of the Church of England. The Episcopal Church describes itself as "Protestant, yet Catholic" and claims apostolic succession, tracing its bishops back to the apostles via holy orders. The "Book of Common Prayer", a collection of rites, blessings, liturgies, and prayers used throughout the Anglican Communion, is central to Episcopal worship. A broad spectrum of theological views is represented within the Episcopal Church, including evangelical, Anglo-Catholic, and broad church views.  Historically, the members of the Episcopal Church have played leadership roles in many aspects of American life, including politics, business, science, the arts, and education. About three-quarters of the signers of the Declaration of Independence were affiliated with the Episcopal Church, and over a quarter of all Presidents of the United States have been Episcopalians. Historically, Episcopalians were overrepresented among American scientific elite and Nobel Prize winners. Tidewater, and Lowcountry Gentry or old money, are Episcopalians.<ref name="THE EPISCOPALIANS"/><ref name="W. Williams"/> In the late 19th and early 20th centuries, many Episcopalians were active in the Social Gospel movement.   Since the 1960s and 1970s, the church has pursued a more liberal course, though there remains a wide spectrum of liberals and conservatives within the church.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP] Church of Scotland  The Church of Scotland (; ) is the national church in Scotland.  The Church of Scotland was principally shaped by John Knox, in the Reformation of 1560, when it split from the Catholic Church and established itself as a church in the reformed tradition. The church is Calvinist Presbyterian, having no head of faith or leadership group and believing that God invited the church's adherents to worship Jesus. The annual meeting of its general assembly is chaired by the Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. The Church of Scotland celebrates two sacraments, Baptism and the Lord's Supper, as well as five other rites, such as Confirmation and Matrimony. The church adheres to the Bible and the Westminster Confession of Faith, and is a member of the World Communion of Reformed Churches.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP] Seventh-day Adventist Church  The Seventh-day Adventist Church is an Adventist Protestant Christian denomination which is distinguished by its observance of Saturday, the seventh day of the week in the Christian (Gregorian) and the Hebrew calendar, as the Sabbath, Among its co-founders was Ellen G. White, whose extensive writings are still held in high regard by the church.  Much of the theology of the Seventh-day Adventist Church corresponds to common evangelical Christian teachings, such as the Trinity and the infallibility of Scripture. Distinctive post-tribulation teachings include the unconscious state of the dead and the doctrine of an investigative judgment. The church places an emphasis on diet and health, including adhering to Kosher food laws, advocating vegetarianism, and its holistic view of human nature—i.e. that the body, soul, and spirit form one inseparable entity. The Church holds the belief that "God created the universe, and in a recent six-day creation made the heavens and the earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day". Marriage is defined as a lifelong union between a man and a woman. The second coming of Christ, and resurrection of the dead, are among official beliefs.  The world church is governed by a General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists, with smaller regions administered by divisions, unions, local conferences and local missions. The Seventh-day Adventist Church is currently "one of the fastest-growing and most widespread churches worldwide", The church operates over 7,500 schools including over 100 post-secondary institutions, numerous hospitals, and publishing houses worldwide, a humanitarian aid organization known as the Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA) and tax-exempt businesses such as Sanitarium which fund the church's charitable and religious activities.
What is the religion of Ecclesiastical Statistics? [SEP]
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP]  Ioan Duma (November 5, 1896 &mdash; July 16, 1981) was a Romanian cleric and a titular bishop of the Roman Catholic Church. Born in Valea Mare, Bacău County, he studied at the Franciscan seminary in Hălăucești and in Rome. Ordained there in 1924, he returned to Romania to serve in the parishes at Săbăoani and Hălăuceşti, also teaching at the seminary in the latter place, and officiating at Franciscan convents in Transylvania in 1944. In 1948, nuncio Gerald Patrick O'Hara consecrated him bishop in secret, without the approval of the new communist authorities. For the next two years, he undertook activities against the regime, and was arrested in 1951 by the Securitate secret police. Sentenced to four years' imprisonment for "spying on behalf of the Vatican", he was
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP]  when his term expired in 1955 and forced to live and work as a parish priest first in Iaşi, then in Mihail Kogălniceanu, Constanţa County. In 1957, he was nearly arrested again, an order to the effect having been signed by Interior Minister Alexandru Drăghici. A year later, he was investigated after attending his mother's funeral near his native village, his personal papers confiscated. In 1960, wishing to isolate and watch him more closely, the Securitate sent him to live at Târgu Jiu. In 1971, he was allowed to visit Pope Paul VI in Rome. He was no longer under supervision after 1975, as the Securitate considered the aged and ill prelate no longer posed a threat. He died in Târgu Jiu and was buried in Valea Mare.
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP] Anton Coșa ; Ioan Duma
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP]  Although the Constitution declares the separation of church and state, the Moldovan Orthodox Church (Metropolis of Chișinău and All Moldova under the Russian Orthodox Church) is sometimes active in political debate. In June 2010 Metropolitan Vladimir featured in the campaign advertisements of Valeriu Pasat, apparently endorsing his candidacy. In October 2015 the same Orthodox Church leveraged its authority in a failed attempt to influence the trial of former prime minister Vlad Filat, who was accused of passive corruption and traffic of influence. In December 2015 the Metropolis of Chișinău and All Moldova challenged the State Tax Service of the Republic
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP]  The relationship between the military and the religion with dumy originated in the Cossack rebellion of 1648. Ukraine fell under the control of the Catholic Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, that imposed discriminatory measures on the Eastern Orthodox Church. This rebellion was followed by “partition and eventual subjugation of the Ukrainian lands and the Ukrainian church. The Cossacks rebelled against the religious oppression and their lands were eventually lost to the oppressor. This causes a great dilemma in the church because the Cossacks were defenders of the faith, and since they lost, and the faith is infallible, the Cossacks themselves must have done something sinful. This is why dumy has a great religious undertone and is a song that tells of death and defeat, not of victory.
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP] Ivan III of Russia  Ivan III Vasilyevich (; 22 January 1440 – 27 October 1505), also known as Ivan the Great, was a Grand Prince of Moscow and Grand Prince of all Rus'. Ivan served as the co-ruler and regent for his blind father Vasily II from the mid-1450s before he officially ascended the throne in 1462.  He multiplied the territory of his state through war and through the seizure of lands from his dynastic relatives, ended the dominance of the Tatars over Russia, renovated the Moscow Kremlin, introduced a new legal codex and laid the foundations of the Russian state. His 1480 victory over the Great Horde is cited as the restoration of Russian independence, 240 years after the fall of Kiev in the Mongol invasion of Kievan Rus'.  Ivan was the first Russian ruler to style himself "tsar", albeit not as an official title. Through marriage to Sofia Paleologue, he made the double-headed eagle Russia's coat of arms and adopted the idea of Moscow as Third Rome. His 43-year reign was the second longest in Russian history, after that of his grandson Ivan IV.
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP] Ioannina  Ioannina ( ' ), often called Yannena ( ' ) within Greece, is the capital and largest city of the Ioannina regional unit and of Epirus, an administrative region in north-western Greece. According to the 2011 census, the city population was 65,574, while the municipality had 112,486 inhabitants. It lies at an elevation of approximately above sea level, on the western shore of Lake Pamvotis (). Ioannina is located northwest of Athens, southwest of Thessaloniki and east of the port of Igoumenitsa in the Ionian Sea.  The city's foundation has traditionally been ascribed to the Byzantine Emperor Justinian in the 6th century AD, but modern archaeological research has uncovered evidence of Hellenistic settlements. Ioannina flourished in the late Byzantine period (13th–15th centuries). It became part of the Despotate of Epirus following the Fourth Crusade and many wealthy Byzantine families fled there following the sack of Constantinople, with the city experiencing great prosperity and considerable autonomy, despite the political turmoils. Ioannina surrendered to the Ottomans in 1430 and until 1868 it was the administrative center of the Pashalik of Yanina. In the period between the 18th and 19th centuries, the city was a major center of the modern Greek Enlightenment. Ioannina was ceded to Greece in 1913 following the Balkan Wars.  The city is also characterized by various green areas and parks, including Molos (Lake Front), Litharitsia Park, Pirsinella Park (Giannotiko Saloni), Suburban Forest. There are two hospitals, the General Hospital of Ioannina "G. Hatzikosta", and the University Hospital of Ioannina. It is also the seat of the University of Ioannina. The city's emblem consists of the portrait of the Byzantine Emperor Justinian crowned by a stylized depiction of the nearby ancient theater of Dodona.
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP] Ivan Mazepa  Ivan Stepanovych Mazepa (also spelled Mazeppa; , ; ) was a Ukrainian military, political, and civic leader who served as the Hetman of Zaporizhian Host in 1687–1708. He was awarded a title of Prince of the Holy Roman Empire in 1707 for his efforts for the Holy League. The historical events of Mazepa's life have inspired many literary, artistic and musical works. He was famous as a patron of the arts.  Mazepa played an important role in the Battle of Poltava (1709), where after learning that Tsar Peter I intended to relieve him as acting Hetman (military leader) of Zaporozhian Host (a Cossack state) and to replace him with Alexander Menshikov, he defected from his army and sided with King Charles XII of Sweden. The political consequences and interpretation of this defection have resonated in the national histories both of Russia and of Ukraine.  The Russian Orthodox Church laid an anathema (excommunication) on Mazepa's name in 1708 and still refuses to revoke it. The anathema was not recognized by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, which considers it uncanonical and imposed with political motives as a means of political and ideological repression, with no religious, theological or canonical reasons.   Pro-independence and anti-Russian elements in Ukraine from the 18th century onwards were derogatorily referred to as "Mazepintsy" ().<ref> </ref><ref> Compare: </ref> The alienation of Mazepa from Ukrainian historiography continued during the Soviet period, but post-1991 in independent Ukraine Mazepa's image has been gradually rehabilitated.   A corvette of the Ukrainian Navy is named after him.
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP]
What is the religion of Ioan Duma? [SEP] Aleksandr Karelin  Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Karelin (; born 19 September 1967) is a Russian politician and retired athlete.  Karelin competed in Greco-Roman wrestling, representing the Soviet Union and Russia between 1987 and 2000. Nicknamed the "Russian Bear", "Russian King Kong", "Alexander the Great" and "The Experiment", he is widely considered to be the greatest Greco-Roman wrestler of all time. Karelin won gold medals at the 1988, 1992 and 1996 Olympic Games under a different flag each time (Soviet Union, Unified Team and Russia respectively), and a silver medal at the 2000 Olympic Games. His wrestling record is 887 wins and two losses, both by a single point. Prior to his last match versus Rulon Gardner in September 2000, a point had not been scored on him within the previous six years. Karelin was the national flag bearer at three consecutive Olympics: in 1988 for the Soviet Union, in 1992 for the Unified Team, and in 1996 for Russia.  Karelin entered politics in 1999, being elected a deputy of the State Duma that year. He sat in the Duma through various convocations until 2020, when he entered the Federation Council as a senator.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP]  Arnaldo Ribeiro (January 7, 1930&ndash;December 15, 2009) was the Roman Catholic Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Ribeirão Preto, Brazil. Ordained to the priesthood on March 13, 1954, in the Archdiocese of Belo Horizonte, Ribeiro was named auxiliary bishop of the Belo Horizonte Archdiocese on November 6, 1975, and was ordained bishop on December 27, 1975. On December 28, 1988, Ribeiro was named Archbishop of the Ribeirão Preto Archdiocese; he retired on April 5, 2006. Six years after the death of Archbp. Ribeiro, the Archdiocese of Ribeirão Preto formally opened his cause for beatification. His current status in the steps towards sainthood is Servant of God.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP]  Arnaldo Dias Baptista (, born July 6, 1948) is a Brazilian rock musician and composer.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP]  Manuel António Ribeiro (13 December 1878 – 27 November 1941) was a Portuguese writer, poet, and relevant political figure during the First Portuguese Republic. He is known for his role as an active proponent of syndicalism in the early 20th century, as the founder of the first Bolshevist organisation in Portugal (the Portuguese Maximalist Federation), as well as one of the first organisers of the Portuguese Communist Party. In 1926, having already shown a certain religious disquiet as well as a profound interest in sacred art and liturgy, he formally converted to Catholicism, which implied his abandonment of the socialist movement and of his partisan activity, but not of his social
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP]  he became aligned with Christian democratic sectors that espoused the modern Catholic social teaching of Pope Leo XIII's Rerum Novarum, he never denounced the labour movement, and denounced fascism. In 1932, he started publishing Era Nova, a religious and political weekly openly opposed to Salazar's ideology, that is soon after labelled as radical propaganda and shut down. His literary works, particularly his "social trilogy" consisting of A Catedral ("The Cathedral", 1920), O Deserto ("The Desert", 1922), and A Ressureição ("The Resurrection", 1923), made Manuel Ribeiro one of the most widely-read novelists in Portugal in the 1920s, but were deliberately obscured in the following decades by the authoritarian conservative Estado Novo regime.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP] Joaquim Heliodoro da Cunha Rivara (1809 in Arraiolos – 1879 in Évora) a physician, professor, intellectual and politician ; Francisco José Caeiro (1890 in Vimieiro – 1976) a politician and former Minister and law professor.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP]
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP] Portuguese people  The Portuguese people () are a Romance nation and ethnic group indigenous to Portugal who share a common culture, ancestry and language. The Portuguese people's heritage largely derives from the pre-Celts (Lusitanians, Conii) and Celts (Gallaecians, Turduli and Celtici), who were Romanized after the conquest of the region by the ancient Romans. A small number of male lineages descend from Germanic tribes who arrived after the Roman period as ruling elites, including the Suebi, Buri, Hasdingi Vandals and Visigoths. The pastoral Caucasus' Alans left small traces in a few central-southern areas. The Umayyad conquest of Iberia also left Moorish, Jewish and Saqaliba genetic contributions in the country.<ref name="Bycroft2019" /><ref name="Olalde2019" />  The Roman Republic conquered the Iberian Peninsula during the 2nd and 1st centuries B.C. from the extensive maritime empire of Carthage during the series of Punic Wars. As a result of Roman colonization, the Portuguese language stems primarily from Vulgar Latin. Due to the large historical extent from the 16th century of the Portuguese Empire and the subsequent colonization of territories in Asia, Africa and the Americas, as well as historical and recent emigration, Portuguese communities can be found in many diverse regions around the globe, and a significant Portuguese diaspora exists.  Portuguese people began an Age of Exploration which started in 1415 with the conquest of Ceuta and culminated in an empire with territories that are now part of over 50 countries. The Portuguese Empire lasted nearly 600 years, seeing its end when Macau was returned to China in 1999. The discovery of several lands unknown to Europeans in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Oceania (southwest Pacific Ocean), forged the Portuguese Empire described as the first global maritime and commercial empire, becoming one of the world's major economic, political and military powers in the 15th and 16th centuries. Portugal paved the way to the subsequent domination of Western civilization by other neighbouring European nations.<ref name="weforum1" />
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP] Portuguese name  A Portuguese name is typically composed of one or two personal names, and a number of family names (rarely one, often two or three, sometimes more). The first additional names are usually the mother's family surname(s) and the father's family surname(s). For practicality, usually only the last surname (excluding prepositions) is used in formal greetings.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP] List of Brazilian writers  This is a list of Brazilian writers, those born in Brazil or who have established citizenship or residency.
What is the religion of Arnaldo Ribeiro? [SEP] Anglo-Spanish War (1654–1660)  The Anglo-Spanish War was a conflict between the English Protectorate under Oliver Cromwell, and Spain, between 1654 and 1660. It was caused by commercial rivalry. Each side attacked the other's commercial and colonial interests in various ways such as privateering and naval expeditions. In 1655, an English amphibious expedition invaded Spanish territory in the Caribbean. In 1657, England formed an alliance with France, merging the Anglo–Spanish war with the larger Franco-Spanish War resulting in major land actions that took place in the Spanish Netherlands.  Although the war was terminated after The Restoration of King Charles II of England in 1660, tensions in the Caribbean kept the conflict going intermittently for over ten years. The war officially ended with two peace treaties which were signed at Madrid in 1667 and 1670.
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]  Tokarczuk is a leftist, an atheist, and a feminist. She has been criticized by some nationalist groups in Poland as unpatriotic, anti-Christian and a promoter of eco-terrorism. She has denied the allegations, has described herself as a "true patriot" and said that groups criticizing her are xenophobic and damage Poland's international reputation. In 2015, after the publication of The Books of Jacob, Tokarczuk was criticized by the Nowa Ruda Patriots association, who demanded that the town's council revoke the writer's honorary citizenship of Nowa Ruda because, as the association claimed, she had tarnished the good name of the Polish nation. Those people's postulate was supported by Senator Waldemar Bonkowski of the Law and Justice Party, according to whom Tokarczuk's literary output and public statements are in "absolute
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP] Byron Tokarchuk (born 1965), Canadian basketball player ; Ignacy Tokarczuk (1918–2012), Polish bishop ; Olga Tokarczuk (born 1962), Polish writer Tokarczuk or Tokarchuk (Russian or Ukrainian: Токарчук) is a gender-neutral Slavic surname that may refer to:
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]  Sachs (Warsaw, 1927), Polish, naturalized French economist ; Ignacy Schwarzbart (1888–1961), prominent Polish Zionist ; Ignacy Szymański (1806–1874), Polish and American soldier ; Ignacy Tłoczyński (1911–2000), Polish tennis player ; Ignacy Tokarczuk (born 1918), Polish prelate of the Roman Catholic Church ; Ignacy Witczak, GRU Illegal officer in the United States during World War II ; Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz (1885–1939), Polish playwright, novelist, painter, photographer and philosopher ; Adam Ignacy Zabellewicz (1784–1831), professor of philosophy at Warsaw University ; Ignacy Zaborowski (1754–1803), Polish mathematician and geodesist ; Ignacy Żagiell (1826–1891), physician, traveler and Polish-language writer ; Ignacy Wyssogota Zakrzewski (1745–1802), notable Polish nobleman and politician during the last years of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth Ignacy may refer to:
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]  General Michał Tadeusz Karaszewicz-Tokarzewski, Coat of arms of Trąby pseudonym Doktor, Stolarski, Torwid (b. 5 January 1893 in Lemberg – 22 May 1964 in Casablanca, Morocco) was a Polish general, founder of the resistance movement "Polish Victory Service".
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]  person could openly admit their atheism or agnosticism. The initiative aims to promote ideological assertiveness among the unbelievers, checking the presence of believers in the social life and the consolidation and strengthening of cooperation between free thinkers. Many leading Polish media have written dozens of articles about this initiative, causing a discussion on the situation of unbelievers in Poland (Gazeta Wyborcza, Cross-section, Overview, Republic, Newsweek, Tribune, Gazeta Pomorska, Kurier Lubelski, Wirtualna Polska, Życie Warszawy  ), and on the radio TOK FM was a debate about atheism between the academic priest Gregory Michalczyk and the founder and then-president of the Polish Rationalist Association Mariusz Agnosiewicz. After two
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP] Jerzy Mazur  Jerzy Mazur (born 5 August 1953) is a Polish Roman Catholic bishop, being the head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Ełk since 2003. He was previously a missionary, as well as a bishop in Siberia and the titular bishop of Tabunia.
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP] Franciszek Barda  Franciszek Barda (21 August 1880, Mszana Dolna, Austria-Hungary (now Poland) – 13 November 1964, Przemyśl, Poland) was a Polish clergyman in the Catholic Church, doctor of theology, former rector for the Seminary of the Archdiocese of Kraków from 1930 to 1931, the auxiliary bishop of Przemyśl from 1931 to 1933 and the diocesan bishop of Przemyśl from 1934 to his death in 1964.
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP] Roman Catholic Seminary in Lviv  Seminary in Lviv (now the Seminary of the Archdiocese of Lviv in Lviv-Bryukhovychi) - Roman Catholic seminary founded in Lviv in 1703.  The university was founded in 1703 as a seminary Cathedral in Lviv. After the partition of Polish, Austrian authorities in 1783 in Lviv formed the so-called General Seminar for all the dioceses of Galicia. The place of the seminar were the buildings of former monastery Carmelite Calced in Lviv (later Ossolineum. In 1814, a seminar Lviv separated from the Seminar General. The new location of the seminar were in buildings post-monastery Discalced Carmelites. Until World War II alumni seminar benefited from the intellectual formation of the Faculty of Theology of the University of Jan Kazimierz Lviv. After the end of World War II and the deportation of Poles from Lviv, in 1945 the seminary was moved to Kalwaria Zebrzydowska, but already in 1950, the communist authorities liquidated them.  The seminar resumed its operations on Dec. 12, 1996 Street. Lviv 62 in Bryukhovychi in Lviv. Since the historic buildings Seminary in Lviv have not been returned by the Ukrainian authorities, the seminary was founded in ruined purchased the sanatorium complex in Bryukhovychi near Lviv.
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]
What is the religion of Ignacy Tokarczuk? [SEP]
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP] Notes
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP]  James Edwin Orr (January 15, 1912 – April 22, 1987) was a Baptist Christian minister, hymn-writer, professor, author and promoter of Church revival and renewal.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP]  He was a doctor by trade and lived in Park Terrace, Edinburgh.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP]  John Orr, FBA (4 June 1885 – 10 August 1966) was an English-born Scottish-Australian scholar of French language and philology, and a translator of French literature.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP]  marriage the Orrs evangelised in Australia (1939) China, Canada and the United States of America. In 1939 Orr enrolled at Northwest University. On 15 January 1940 he was ordained into the Baptist Christian ministry, at Newark, New Jersey, United States. He received his MA from Northwest University in 1941, and his Th.D. from Northern Baptist Seminary in 1943. During World War II he served as a chaplain in the US Air Force in the Pacific. After the war he continued his studies and took his Ph.D. at Oxford University in 1948, with a thesis on the second evangelical awakening in Britain.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP] John Boyd Orr  John Boyd Orr, 1st Baron Boyd-Orr, (23 September 1880 – 25 June 1971), styled Sir John Boyd Orr from 1935 to 1949, was a Scottish teacher, medical doctor, biologist, nutritional physiologist, politician, businessman and farmer who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his scientific research into nutrition and his work as the first Director-General of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO).  He was the co-founder and the first President (1960–1971) of the World Academy of Art and Science (WAAS). In 1945, he was elected President of the National Peace Council and was President of the World Union of Peace Organisations and the World Movement for World Federal Government.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP] James Orr (theologian)  James Orr (1844–6 September 1913) was a Scottish Presbyterian minister and professor of church history and then theology. He was an influential defender of evangelical doctrine and a contributor to "The Fundamentals".
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP] Benjamin Orr  Benjamin Orzechowski (September 8, 1947 – October 3, 2000), known professionally as Benjamin Orr, was an American musician best known as the bassist, co-lead vocalist, and co-founder of the rock band The Cars. He sang lead vocals on several of their best-known songs, including "Just What I Needed", "Let's Go" and "Drive". He also had a moderate solo hit with "Stay the Night".  Orr was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of The Cars in 2018.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP] Orr (surname)  Orr is a surname of Irish and Scottish origin. It is derived from the Gaelic "Odhar" meaning "dark, pale". In Scotland, Orr may be a sept of Clan Campbell.
What is the religion of John Orr? [SEP]
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP]  Benedict D. Coscia, O.F.M. Benedito Domingos Coscia, (10 August 1922 − 30 April 2008) was an American Friar Minor and a Catholic bishop.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP]  He was born Vito Coscia in Brooklyn, New York, in 1922 and baptized at the Church of Our Lady, Help of Christians, on Staten Island. He attended Public School 104 in the Fort Hamilton section of Brooklyn for his elementary education (1928-1935) and then Immaculata High School in Manhattan (1935-1939). After graduation, he enrolled at St. Francis College in Brooklyn. Coscia then felt called to enter the Franciscans. He was admitted as a candidate for Holy Name Province, based in New York City, and entered St. Joseph Seraphic Seminary in Callicoon, New York, where he was admitted to the novitiate and given the religious name of Dominic Coscia. He made his initial profession of religious vows on December 8, 1943. He was then sent to complete his college studies at St. Bonaventure College (1943-1945), followed by seminary studies at Holy Name College in Washington, D.C. (1945-1949). During this same period, he earned a Master's degree in Latin American history (1945-1948). He was ordained to the priesthood on November 6, 1949.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP]   Gianni Coscia (born January 23, 1931 in Alessandria) is an Italian jazz accordionist. Originally a lawyer, Coscia began focusing full-time on jazz music. Expresses an interest in developing "the remote values of cultural and popular tradition through the language of jazz." Has toured widely on the international jazz circuit. Of interest: the liner notes to his first CD were written by his former classmate Umberto Eco and he collaborated with Luciano Berio in the writing of the music of a stage show against antisemitism. Since 1995 he has collaborated with wood-player Gianluigi Trovesi mainly on the label ECM Records and since 2006 he has been a member of the Council of the Chigiana Music Academy in Siena.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP]  Niccolò Coscia (1681 &ndash; 8 February 1755) was an Italian Roman Catholic cardinal. He was born at Pietradefusi, near Avellino. In 1725 he was appointed as Cardinal of Santa Maria in Domnica by Pope Benedict XIII, whose secretary he had been when the future pope was Archbishop of Benevento. Coscia held the effective government of the Papal States during Benedict's reign. He took advantage of his position to commit a long series of financial abuses, causing the ruin of the Papal treasury. According to Montesquieu, "All the money of Rome goes to Benevento... as the Beneventani direct [Benedict's] weakness". When Benedict died, Coscia fled Rome. In 1731 he was tried, excommunicated and condemned to ten years' imprisonment in Castel Sant'Angelo. However, he managed to have his sentence commuted to a fine. Restored, he took part in the conclaves of 1730 and 1740. He died in Naples in 1755.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP]  Angelo Antonino Pipitone (born August 30, 1943 in Carini, Sicily) is a member of the Sicilian Mafia from Carini near Palermo. Pipitone is the boss of the cosca of Carini and was arrested on September 25, 2014 together with his wife Franca Pellerito, his daughter Epifania and her husband Benedetto Pipitone, his cousin Francesco Marco Pipitone as well as Angela Conigliaro, who according to the investigators is loyal to the Pipitone family.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP] Benedict D. Coscia  Benedict D. Coscia, O.F.M. , (10 August 1922 − 30 April 2008) was an American Friar Minor and a Catholic bishop.
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP] deaconries in his apostolic constitution "Religiosa". The interior has frescoes of the Madonna, child, and Saints attribuito ad Antoniazzo Romano. It also has 19th-century frescoes depicting the "Madonna offering the Rosary to Saints Dominic and Catherine of Siena". The current Cardinal Deacon is Giuseppe Bertello, appointed in 2012 by Pope Benedict XVI. Santi Vito, Modesto e Crescenzia Santi Vito, Modesto e Crescenzia (Saints Vito, Modesto and Crescenzia) is the name of a Catholic church in Rome, officially named Santi Vito e Modesto. It is located in the Rione Esquilino, adjacent to the Servian Wall. It is near the Oratory of
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP] Gianni Coscia Gianni Coscia is an Italian jazz accordionist. Originally a lawyer, Coscia began focusing full-time on jazz music. Expresses an interest in developing "the remote values of cultural and popular tradition through the language of jazz." Has toured widely on the international jazz circuit. Of interest: the liner notes to his first CD were written by his former classmate Umberto Eco and he collaborated with Luciano Berio in the writing of the music of a stage show against antisemitism. Since 1995 he collaboretes with wood-player Gianluigi Trovesi mainly on the label ECM Records and since 2006 he has been
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP] him the Order of Niscian Iflikhau. Uriele Vitolo Uriele Vitolo (14 January 1831 - unknown) was an Italian sculptor. He was born in Avellino, Italy. He completed his first studies in design and modelling at the Academy of Fine Arts of Naples, earning a scholarship of his province; he joined the studio of Gennaro Cali and was given advice by Antonio Cali. He won medals at public expositions of Naples for 1861, 1863, 1869, 1871, and 1874, he had five medals of honor, of which four were silver, and one gold. In 1861, he was awarded another award in a
What is the religion of Benedito Domingos Vito Coscia? [SEP] took place at the Basilica of Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Brooklyn on September 21, 1961. Returning to Brazil, he spent his career as bishop building up church institutions to serve a population scattered throughout the region, both Brazilian farmers and the indigenous population. He worked hard in the social arena, especially health care, personally driving a health van mobile unit himself to the rural zones of his diocese, as well as supervising the establishment and operation of orphanages and daycare centers. During this time, he attended all four sessions of the Second Vatican Council. Coscia retired as bishop
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP]  The 2012 Georgetown Hoyas football team represented Georgetown University in the 2012 NCAA Division I FCS football season. They were led by seventh-year head coach Kevin Kelly and played their home games at Multi-Sport Field. They were a member of the Patriot League. They finished the season 5–6, 2–4 in Patriot League play to finish in a three-way tie for third place.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP]  Georgetown broke onto the national stage in 2012, the most successful season to date in program history. The Hoyas went 19-4-3 with a mark of 6-2-0 in the Big East Conference. The squad was the third overall seed in the NCAA Tournament and the 19 wins were the most in program history. The Hoyas were the Big East Blue Division Champions, the Big East Championship runners-up and advanced to the national championship game in penalty kicks in a game against the University of Maryland. The Hoyas were runners-up to Indiana in the 2012 NCAA Division I Men's Soccer Championship. Brian Wiese was selected as National Coach of the Year.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP]  The 2011–12 Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team represented Georgetown University in the 2011–2012 NCAA Division I basketball season. They were led by John Thompson III and played their home games at the Verizon Center. They are a member of the Big East Conference. Prior to the season, the Hoyas made a goodwill trip to China for several matches with local teams. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden attended their first game, a win over the Shanxi Zhongyu Brave Dragons. Their second game, against the Bayi Rockets, ended in a brawl, causing the team to leave the court while Chinese fans threw garbage and debris. Georgetown won their final games
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP]  The Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team represents Georgetown University in all men's Division I NCAA soccer competitions. The Georgetown Hoyas joined the new Big East Conference on July 1, 2013, with other private schools from the former Big East Conference in which they previously competed. They won a national championship in 2019, and was the national runner-up in 2012. They have made nine total appearances in the NCAA Men's Division I Soccer Championship, and have won the Big East conference tournament four times and the regular season title seven times.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP]  Georgetown's season had an unusual beginning. The Hoyas started off with a ranked opponent – No. 10 Florida, a team they had not faced since losing to the Gators in the 2006 NCAA Tournament – in the Carrier Classic. The game was played on November 9 in front of a crowd of nearly 3,500 people, including Olympic gold medalist swimmer Conor Dwyer, Jacksonville Jaguars players Paul Posluszny and Laurent Robinson, and United States Navy and United States Marine Corps personnel, on a court set up on the flight deck of the U.S. Navy amphibious assault ship USS Bataan (LHD-5), moored at Naval Station Mayport
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP] Georgetown Hoyas  The Georgetown Hoyas are the collegiate athletics teams that officially represent Georgetown University, located in Washington, D.C. Georgetown's athletics department fields 23 men's and women's varsity level teams and competes at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level as a member of the Big East Conference, with the exception of the Division I FCS Patriot League in football. In late 2012, Georgetown and six other Catholic, non-FBS schools announced that they were departing the Big East for a new conference. The rowing and sailing teams also participate in east coast conferences. The men's basketball team is the school's most famous and most successful program, but Hoyas have achieved success in a wide range of sports.  The team name is derived from the mixed Greek and Latin chant "Hoya Saxa" (meaning "What Rocks"), which gained popularity at the school in the late nineteenth century. The name "Hoyas" came into use in the 1920s. Most teams have their athletic facilities on the main campus of Georgetown University. The men's basketball team plays most of their home games at the Capital One Arena in downtown Washington, D.C. and the baseball team plays at Shirley Povich Field in Cabin John, Maryland. Lee Reed took over as the school's athletic director in April 2010.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP] 2012 Georgetown Hoyas football team  The 2012 Georgetown Hoyas football team represented Georgetown University in the 2012 NCAA Division I FCS football season. They were led by seventh-year head coach Kevin Kelly and played their home games at Multi-Sport Field. They were a member of the Patriot League. They finished the season 5–6, 2–4 in Patriot League play to finish in a three-way tie for third place.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP] Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer  The Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team represents Georgetown University in all men's Division I NCAA soccer competitions. The Georgetown Hoyas joined the new Big East Conference on July 1, 2013, with other private schools from the former Big East Conference in which they previously competed. They won a national championship in 2019, and was the national runner-up in 2012. They have made nine total appearances in the NCAA Men's Division I Soccer Championship, and have won the Big East conference tournament four times and the regular season title seven times.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP] Patriot League  The Patriot League is a collegiate athletic conference comprising private institutions of higher education and two United States service academies based in the Northeastern United States. Outside the Ivy League, it is among the most selective groups of higher education institutions in the NCAA, and has a very high student-athlete graduation rate for both the NCAA graduation success rate and the federal graduation rate.  The Patriot League has 10 core members: American University, the United States Military Academy (Army), Boston University, Bucknell University, Colgate University, College of the Holy Cross, Lafayette College, Lehigh University, Loyola University Maryland, and the United States Naval Academy (Navy). All 10 core members participate in the NCAA's Division I for all Patriot League sports that they offer. Since not all schools sponsor every available NCAA sport, most schools are affiliated with other collegiate conferences for sports such as ice hockey and wrestling.  Only half of the conference's core members compete in the Patriot League for football, as part of the NCAA's Football Championship Subdivision (FCS): Bucknell, Colgate, Holy Cross, Lafayette, and Lehigh. Of the five other conference members, American, Boston University, and Loyola Maryland do not sponsor football, while Army and Navy play in the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision; Army is an independent, while Navy competes as an associate member of the American Athletic Conference.  Four other private institutions are Patriot League members only for specific sports, and are referred to as associate members. Fordham University and Georgetown University are associate members in football, while MIT is an associate member in women's rowing and the University of Richmond is an associate member in women's golf.
What sport does 2012 Georgetown Hoyas men's soccer team play? [SEP] 2012–13 Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team  The 2012–13 Georgetown Hoyas men's basketball team represented Georgetown University in the 2012–13 college basketball season. They were led by John Thompson III and played their home games at the Verizon Center. They were a member of the Big East Conference. Prior to the January 12 game at St. John's, the team's second leading scorer, Greg Whittington, was suspended indefinitely for academic issues. With a 61–39 win over their rival Syracuse Orange on March 9, 2013, the team clinched their 10th Big East Regular Season Championship. Georgetown lost to 15-seed and tournament newcomer Florida Gulf Coast University 78-68 in the second round of the NCAA tournament. The team was ranked No. 8 in the final Associated Press Poll of the season and No. 17 in the postseason Coaches' Poll.  This was Georgetowns last season as a member of the original Big East Conference. It had been a founding member of the conference in the 1979-80 season and had remained a member for 34 seasons, but the conferences increasingly unstable membership and uncertain future and what Georgetown and the conferences other basketball-only members believed to be its focus on college football at the expense of the interests of its basketball programs led Georgetown and six other Big East members (DePaul, Marquette, Providence, Seton Hall, St. John's, and Villanova) to leave the conference after the end of the 2012-13 season. In 2013, they joined Butler, Creighton, and Xavier in forming a new Big East Conference for the 2013–14 season. The original Big East Conference then added new members of its own and renamed itself the American Athletic Conference for the 2013-14 season.  The final regular-season meeting of Georgetown and Syracuse as Big East rivals on March 9, 2013, set an attendance record at the Verizon Center of 20,972.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP]  Armand Raymond (January 12, 1913 – January 22, 1993) was a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who played 22 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens. He was born, and died in Montreal, Quebec.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP]  Alain Raymond (born June 24, 1965) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey goaltender. He played one game in the National Hockey League with the Washington Capitals, giving up two goals in the two periods that he played. In his first full IHL season with the Fort Wayne Komets, Raymond won the James Norris Memorial Trophy, awarded to the goaltenders with the fewest goals against in the regular season. Raymond split most of his time during the 1989–90 season between two clubs. He played 31 games with the ECHL's Hampton Roads Admirals and played another 11 games with their parent club, the AHL's Baltimore Skipjacks. Raymond went 17–12–1 with a 3.60 GAA, earning him named the starting goalie on the East Coast Hockey League's all-star team. Raymond later became a goaltender coach with the Rimouski Oceanic of the QMJHL.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP]  Paul Marcel Raymond (February 27, 1913 &ndash; April 4, 1995) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward who played 65 games in the National Hockey League for the Montreal Canadiens. He was born in Montreal, Quebec.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP]  Denis Raymond Basset (born 1883, date of death unknown) was a French tug of war competitor, who competed in the 1900 Summer Olympics. He participated in the tug of war competition and won a silver medal as a member of French team.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP]  Save debuted in rugby union for Stadoceste Tarbais, where he took part at the 1950-51 French Rugby Union Championship before switching to rugby league and making a brilliant career for Bordeaux and France. He was Champion of France with Bordeaux in 1954, as well taking part to the 1954 Rugby League World Cup final lost against Australia, as well in the 1957 World Cup. At club level, he joined Saint-Gaudens. After his sports career, he became a butcher and trained the rugby union team of Bazet, the town of which he was municipal councillor between 1977 and 1983.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP] Armand Duplantis  Armand Gustav "Mondo" Duplantis (born 10 November 1999) is an American-born Swedish pole vaulter, the current world outdoor and indoor record holder ( and ), the current Olympic and World outdoor and indoor champion, the current European outdoor and indoor champion, and the current Diamond League champion. He won the silver medal at the 2019 World Athletics Championships. Duplantis is a two-time European champion from 2018, when he set current world under-20 record, and from 2022. Indoors, he is 2022 World Indoor Championship and 2021 European Indoor Championship gold medallist.  Duplantis won gold as a 15-year-old at the 2015 World Youth Championships. A year later, he placed third at the World U20 Championships. In 2017, he took the European U20 title, and the following year, World U20 title. Duplantis is also a two-time Diamond League champion.  Both European and World Athletics Male Rising Star of the Year in 2018, two years later he was voted World Male Athlete of the Year. For his 2022 season, which saw him breaking world records three times, becoming World indoor and outdoor champion, European and Diamond League champion, and clearing six-metre-plus 22 times, Duplantis was crowned both European and World Male Athlete of the Year. As of 2022, he cleared six meters or higher 54 times, the most of any athlete in history.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP] Armand Cazeaux  Armand Cazeaux was a French footballer who played as a forward for Athletic Club. Although little has been recorded of his life, he was one of the most important footballers in the amateur beginnings of Athletic Club, netting a goal in both the 1902 Copa de la Coronación Final and the 1903 Copa del Rey Final, which were the club's first pieces of silverware.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP] Rougeau wrestling family  The Rougeau wrestling family is a family of Canadian professional wrestlers, with the first Rougeau member taking up wrestling in the 1940s. So far four generations of the family have been involved in professional wrestling starting with Eddie Auger, followed into the sport by his nephews Johnny and Jacques Rougeau Sr. in the 1950s. Three of Jacques' sons following him into professional wrestling Jacques Jr., Raymond, and Armand. Jean Jacques and Cedric, both sons of Jacques Rougeau Jr., represent the fourth generation.
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP] Raymond Pettibon  Raymond Pettibon (born Raymond Ginn, June 16, 1957) is an American artist who lives and works in New York City. Pettibon came to prominence in the early 1980s in the southern California punk rock scene, creating posters and album art mainly for groups on SST Records, owned and operated by his older brother, Greg Ginn. He has subsequently become widely recognized in the fine art world for using American iconography variously pulled from literature, art history, philosophy, and religion to politics, sport, and sexuality.  As Holland Cotter noted in "The New York Times":
What sport does Armand Raymond play? [SEP] Parade All-America Boys Basketball Team  The "Parade" All-America Boys Basketball Team was an annual selection by "Parade" that nationally honored the top high school boys' basketball players in the United States. It was part of the "Parade" All-American series that originated with boys basketball before branching to other sports. Started by the Sunday magazine in 1957, it had been the longest ongoing selection of high school basketball All-Americans in the country at the time of its final selections in 2015. Many of the honorees went on to star as college and professional basketball players.  At its onset, the selections were handled by a New York-based public relations firm, Publicity Enterprises, which was led by Haskell Cohen, who was a former sportswriter as well as the publicity director for the NBA at the time (1950–1969). The first All-America team in 1957 consisted of three five-player teams, and the first-team selections appeared on television on "The Steve Allen Show". The following year, 20 players were selected and participated in the first annual "Parade" All-American high school game. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, known then as Lew Alcindor, became the first sophomore in 1963 to be named a "Parade" All-American. Fifteen years later, Earl Jones became the next sophomore to earn first-team honors, and subsequently joined Abdul-Jabbar as the first two players to be named to the first team on three occasions. "It was a real thrill for me to make it on the "Parade" list early, when I was just a sophomore. The recognition is a great thing for kids to shoot for," said Abdul-Jabbar as part of the announcement for the 2000 team.  Starting in 2011, the selections were compiled in conjunction with "Sporting News" and their writer, Brian McLaughlin. Candidates also began to be limited to players in their senior year. McLaughlin described the selections as mostly Division I college-bound players that had a stellar senior year in high school. Additionally, "Parade" differentiated itself from most other All-American teams by not focusing solely on a player's standing among college recruiters. For example, some selectors might choose top recruits that had been injured much of their senior year. "Parade" discontinued its boys' basketball All-America selections after 2015.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP]  Luan Viana Patrocínio (born 14 January 1996), simply known as Luan, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a forward.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] International ; Toulon Tournament: 2013
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP]  Born in São Paulo, Luan graduated from Portuguesa's youth setup, and made his first-team debut on 13 February 2013, coming on as a late substitute in a 2–0 win at São José, for the Campeonato Paulista Série A2 championship. On 8 August, Luan was definitely promoted to the main squad in Série A. However, he failed to appear during the rest of the year. On 26 April 2014 Luan made his league debut for Lusa, playing the last 19 minutes of a 1–1 home draw against Santa Cruz, for the Série B championship. He scored his first professional goal on 8 November, netting the game's only through a header in a 1–0 home win over Luverdense, as his side were already relegated
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] For the similarly named Brazilian basketball player, see João Vianna  João Nuno Duarte Viana (born 13 January 1992) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays for Swiss club FC Stade Nyonnais as a right back.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP]  Série C. On 9 January 2015 Luan left the club, after having unpaid wages. He joined Grêmio in March, returning to youth setup. On 6 September 2018 Luan signed a longterm contract with the Bulgarian 26 times champions Levski Sofia After failing to make it into the first team in the first half of the season, in January 2019 he was sent on loan to the Second League leaders Tsarsko Selo. He scored 2 goals in a friendly match against the Macedonian team FK Belasica played on 5 February. After spending first 3 matches from the league on the bench, Luan made his debut for the team in the league match against Chernomorets Balchik and scored a goal for the 3:1 win.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] 2022 Campeonato Pernambucano  The 2022 Campeonato Pernambucano (officially the Pernambucano Betsson 2022 for sponsorship reasons) was the 108th edition of the state championship of Pernambuco organized by FPF. The championship began on 22 January and ended on 30 April 2022. Náutico are the defending champions.  In the first stage, Sete de Setembro had three points deducted for fielding the ineligible player Bililiu in the match Sete de Setembro v Náutico played on 1 February 2022 (2nd round).  The finals were contested in two-legged home-and-away format between Náutico and Retrô. Tied 1–1 on aggregate, Náutico won 4–2 on penalties, winning the tournament for the 24th time. As champions, Náutico qualified for 2023 Copa do Brasil and 2023 Copa do Nordeste. The runners-up, Retrô qualified for 2023 Copa do Brasil and 2023 Copa do Nordeste qualification, while Santa Cruz, the best placed team in the first stage not already qualified, gained the third berth for 2023 Copa do Brasil.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] 2014 Santos FC season  The 2014 season is Santos Futebol Clube's 102nd season in existence and the club's fifty-fifth consecutive season in the top flight of Brazilian football. As well as the Campeonato Brasileiro, the club competes in the Copa do Brasil and the Campeonato Paulista. This season is the first in history that Santos uses fixed numbers assigned to each player.  On 19 December 2013, Santos signed Leandro Damião from Internacional for a fee of R$ 42 million (€13m) (biggest transfer in history between two Brazilian clubs). At the same time, the club did not spend a cent, as the player's rights were bought by Doyen Sports, an investment fund based in Malta; Damião was later assigned to "Peixe" in a free transfer, but the club will have to pay the company after the end of Damião's contract, with a 10% interest per year.  This was Oswaldo de Oliveira's second (third in history) season in charge after Claudinei Oliveira was relieved from the club at the end of the 2013 season. He was relieved from his duties on 2 September, after a bad run of results.<ref name="Oswaldo" /> A day after Oswaldo's dismissal, Santos appointed Enderson Moreira as the club's new manager.<ref name="Enderson"/>  Santos reached Campeonato Paulista's finals for the sixth successive year, but lost to countryside team Ituano in penalties after a 1–1 draw on aggregate score.  On 15 May, Luis Álvaro de Oliveira Ribeiro resigned from the presidency of the club due to health problems, and Odílio Rodrigues (the former vice-president) assumed the position until the end of his term.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] 2012 Santos FC season  The 2012 season was Santos Futebol Clube's 100th season in existence and the club's fifty-third consecutive season in the top flight of Brazilian football.  Santos won the Campeonato Paulista title for the third consecutive time and became the first team in 43 years to win three straight São Paulo state championships. Neymar was the top scorer and the best player.  They also competed in the Libertadores as the defending champions, exiting in the semi-finals after a 1–2 aggregate loss against eventual winners Corinthians.  On 26 September, Santos beat Universidad de Chile with an aggregate of 2–0 to win the Recopa Sudamericana for the first time.  Santos' youth team won the U20 Campeonato Paulista by beating São Paulo 2–0 on aggregate score.  Santos finished the Campeonato Brasileiro in eighth place after winning their last match 3–1 against Palmeiras on 1 December.
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] in a house funded by the Brazilian Badminton Federation. Both Vicente and her sister began playing badminton through a programme set up by a coach to teach the sport to kids in the community. Vicente won a silver medal in the women's doubles at the 2015 Pan American Games held in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, playing alongside her sister . The pair defeated Daigenis Saturria and Bermary Altagracia Polanco Muñoz of the Dominican Republic in the quarterfinals then Alexander Bruce and Phyllis Chan of Canada in the semifinals. In the final they lost to the American pairing of Eva Lee and
What sport does Luan Viana Patrocínio play? [SEP] G.D. Juventude de Viana (basketball) The Grupo Desportivo Juventude de Viana is a sports club from Angola, based in Luanda's satellite town of Viana. Following the club's failure to participate in the 2014 women's league and cup due to financial reasons, Mecanagro, the club's major sponsor, announced that the club's basketball department had been discontinued. In January 2014, Universidade Lusíada announced that it would take over Juventude de Viana's basketball athletes and technical staff to form the women's wing of its own club. Until then, Universidade Lusíada only competed in the men's category. Juventude de Viana still competes in the
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP]  Alain Rakotondramanana (born April 16, 1970) is a Malagasy footballer currently plays for USCA Foot.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP]  José Rakotoarisoa Harison, known as José Rakoto (born 11 December 1980) is a Malagasy rugby union player. He plays as a fly-half and as a fullback. Harison first played in F.I.T.A.M.I.B.A., from 1997/98 to 1999/2000, moving then to XV Simpatiques, where he would play from 2000/01 to 2002/03. He then would represent 3F.B., one of the best teams of Madagascar, from 2003/04 to 2004/05. He won three National Championship titles during his three-season first presence at 3F.B.. He then had the chance to move to France, playing for a season at Rugby Club Chateaurenard (2005/06), in the Fédérale 1. He returned to 3F.B. for 2006/07, where he's been playing since then. He won the National Championship titles for 2006/07 and 2007/08. Harison is an international player for Madagascar since 2002. He was twice runners-up for the title of Africa Champions in 2005 and 2007. He played at the winning team at the 2012 Africa Cup, scoring two tries and six conversions at the 57–54 win over Namibia. He played in the 2007 Rugby World Cup and 2011 Rugby World Cup qualifyings. As of March 2020 he is the top scorer for his National Team.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP]  Lantoniaina Sidonie Rakotoarisoa (born 26 April 1983) is a Malagasy rugby union player. He plays as a wing, centre or fly-half. He is the brother of teammate José Rakoto. Rakotoarisoa played for XV Sympathique, moving to 3F.B. in 2004/05. He has won National Championship titles in 2004/05, 2005/06, and 2007/08. Rakotoarisoa currently plays for Madagascar, where he won the title of vice-champion of Africa in 2005 and 2007, and the title of Africa champions in 2012.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP]  Antso Rakotondramanga (born 14 July 1988) is a Malagasy tennis player who was born in Paris, France. Rakotondramanga has a career high ATP singles ranking of 1009 achieved on 29 April 2013. He also has a career high ATP doubles ranking of 734 achieved on 4 November 2013. Rakotondramanga represents Madagascar at the Davis Cup where he has a W/L record of 27–19. Rakotondramanga also earned himself a silver medal in the Men's Singles at the 2013 Summer Universiade. Rakotondramanga also competed in the Men's Doubles at the same games with V. Rakotondramanga.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP]  Dominique Rakotorahalahy (born 3 August 1944) is a Malagasy athlete. He competed in the men's decathlon at the 1968 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP] 2023 Indian Ocean Island Games  The 2023 Indian Ocean Island Games will be the 11th edition of this multi-sport event for athletes representing the National Olympic Committees of Indian Ocean island nations, in Madagascar. The original hosts were Maldives, but they withdrew from hosting in January 2021 and were replaced by Madagascar.
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP] second time competing in the Summer Paralympics after he represented Madagascar at the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Raherinandrasana is a left arm amputee and is classified as T46. He qualified for the Games because the International Paralympic Committee granted him a wild card slot. Monja Dinard, president of the FMH, said that the NPC expected Raherinandrasana to improve on his performance from four years earlier because it felt the runner would be more comfortable competing in a middle-distance competition rather than a sprint. On 16 September, he competed in the men's 1500 metres T45–T46 event with ten other athletes. Raherinandrasana finished
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP] Pierrick Rakotoharisoa Pierrick Rakotoharisoa (born 4 June 1991 in Sainte-Adresse) is a French football player of Malagasy descent who currently plays for French club US Quevilly in Championnat National, on loan from Le Havre in Ligue 2. Rakotoharisoa is a France youth international having earned limited caps with the under-16 and under-18 teams. He plays as an attacking midfielder. Rakotoharisoa began his career, at age 6, playing for his hometown club "Union Fontainaise Foot" in the commune of Fontaine-la-Mallet. "Union Fontainaise" serves as a local feeder club for Le Havre. Following a five-year stint at the club, he transferred to
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP] spot over Petrashov by four hundredths of a second (0.04). Razakarivony ended his third and final Olympic stint with a fifty-fourth place effort on the first day of preliminaries. Jean Luc Razakarivony Jean Luc Razakarivony (born September 10, 1975) is a Malagasy former swimmer, who specialized in breaststroke events. He is a three-time Olympian (1996, 2000, and 2004), a multiple-time Malagasy record holder in the 100 and 200 m breaststroke, and a member of Genève Natation 1885, based in Geneva, Switzerland. Razakarivony made his first Malagasy team, as a 21-year-old, at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. There, he failed
What sport does Alain Rakotondramanana play? [SEP] That season, Ravalawa scored 12 tries in 22 games and won Canberra's under 20s player of the year award. He was named in the Fijian side for the 2017 Rugby League World Cup. Mikaele Ravalawa Mikaele Ravalawa is a Fijian rugby footballer who plays for the St George Illawarra Dragons in the NRL. He primarily plays as a or . He represents Fiji internationally. From Galoa Island, Ravalawa originally played rugby union and captained the Fijian under-18's rugby sevens side. He then joined Burnside High School on a scholarship as part of their international rugby programme. He played for the
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP]  Radik Zhaparov (born February 29, 1984) is a Kazakh ski jumper who has competed since 2003. At the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, he finished 11th in the team large hill and 26th in the individual normal hill events. At the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships, Zhaparov has finished 11th in team events three times (2005: large, normal; 2007: large) and 24th in the individual normal hill (2007) events. Zharparov's best individual World Cup finish was 11th in a large hill event in Finland in 2007. His best individual career finish was second in an FIS Cup normal hill event in Austria, also in 2007.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP]  Ruslan Zhaparov (born 27 May 1996) is a Kazakh heavyweight taekwondo competitor. He represented Kazakhstan at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, in the men's +80 kg. He was defeated by Azerbaijan's Radik Isaev in the round of 16 and South Korea's Cha Dong-min in the repechages. Zhaparov was the flag bearer for Kazakhstan during the Parade of Nations. In 2018 Zhaparov won a bronze medal at the Asian Games and a silver at the Asian Championships.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP]  Teodor Salparov (Теодор Салпаров born 16 August 1982) is a Bulgarian volleyball player, a member of the Bulgaria men's national volleyball team and the Bulgarian club VC Hebar Pazardzhik. He was a participant in the Olympic Games (Beijing 2008, London 2012), and was a bronze medalist in the 2006 World Championship, 2007 World Cup and 2009 European Championship.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] Marat Zhaparov (born 1985), Kazakhstani ski jumper ; Radik Zhaparov (born 1984), Kazakhstani ski jumper, brother of Marat ; Ruslan Zhaparov (born 1996), Kazakhstani taekwondo competitor ; Sadyr Japarov (born 1968), Kyrgyz politician Zhaparov or Japarov (Cyrillic: Жапаров) is a Kazakhstani masculine surname, its feminine counterpart is Zhaparova or Japarova. It may refer to
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP]  Aleksey Petrovich Rastvortsev (Алексей Петрович Растворцев; born August 8, 1978) is a Russian handball player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics (bronze winner) and in the 2008 Summer Olympics. He played for the Russian National Handball Team 251 match and scored over 900 goals. In his career he played for HC Neva (St. Peterburg), HC Energija (Voronez), HC Chekhovskie Medvedi (Chekhov, Moskovskaja oblast), RK Vardar (Skopje) and RK Vojvodina (Novi Sad). He finished his active sports career in 2016 and since then he is deputy sport director in RK Vardar; they won the EHF Champions League in 2017.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] List of Kazakhs  This is a list of notable Kazakhs.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] Sadyr Japarov  Sadyr Nurgojoyevich Japarov (sometimes Zhaparov) (; ; born 6 December 1968) is a Kyrgyz politician who has served as the president of Kyrgyzstan since 28 January 2021. He had previously served as the acting prime minister of Kyrgyzstan in the 2020 interim government following the resignation of Sooronbay Jeenbekov on 15 October 2020 amidst electoral protests. Japarov also became acting president of Kyrgyzstan after Jeenbekov's resignation but resigned himself on 14 November 2020. On 10 January 2021, Japarov was elected president.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] Kyrgyzstan  Kyrgyzstan, or the Kyrgyz Republic, is a landlocked country in Central Asia. Kyrgyzstan is bordered by Kazakhstan to the north, Uzbekistan to the west, Tajikistan to the south, and the People's Republic of China to the east. Its capital and largest city is Bishkek.   Ethnic Kyrgyz make up the majority of the country's seven million people, followed by significant minorities of Uzbeks and Russians. The Kyrgyz language is closely related to other Turkic languages.  Kyrgyzstan's history spans a variety of cultures and empires. Although geographically isolated by its highly mountainous terrain, Kyrgyzstan has been at the crossroads of several great civilizations as part of the Silk Road along with other commercial routes. Inhabited by a succession of tribes and clans, Kyrgyzstan has periodically fallen under larger domination. Turkic nomads, who trace their ancestry to many Turkic states. It was first established as the Yenisei Kyrgyz Khaganate later in the 13th century, Kyrgyzstan was conquered by the Mongols; it regained independence, but was later invaded by Dzungar Khanate. After the fall of Dzhungars, Kyrgyz and Kipchaks were an integral part of Kokand Khanate. In 1876, Kyrgyzstan became part of the Russian Empire, and in 1936, the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic was formed to become a constituent republic of the Soviet Union. Following Mikhail Gorbachev's democratic reforms in the USSR, in 1990 pro-independence candidate Askar Akayev was elected president. On 31 August 1991, Kyrgyzstan declared independence from Moscow and a democratic government was established. Kyrgyzstan attained sovereignty as a nation state after the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991.  After independence, Kyrgyzstan was officially a unitary presidential republic; after the Tulip Revolution it became a unitary parliamentary republic, although it gradually developed an executive president and was governed as a semi-presidential republic before reverting to a presidential system in 2021. Throughout its existence, the country has continued to endure ethnic conflicts, revolts, economic troubles, transitional governments and political conflict.  Kyrgyzstan is a member of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Eurasian Economic Union, the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Organisation of Turkic States, the Türksoy community and the United Nations. It is a developing country ranked 118th in the Human Development Index, and is the second poorest country in Central Asia. The country's transitional economy is heavily dependent on deposits of gold, coal and uranium.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] Almaty  Almaty (; ; ), formerly known as Alma-Ata (), is the largest city in Kazakhstan, with a population of over 2 million. when the government relocated the capital to Akmola (renamed Astana in 1998, Nur-Sultan in 2019, and back to Astana in 2022).  Almaty is still the major commercial, financial, and cultural centre of Kazakhstan, as well as its most populous and most cosmopolitan city. The city, just like Astana and Shymkent, does not belong to any region and is officially a "city of state importance".  The city has been part of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network in the area of music since November 2017. The city was the host for a 1978 international conference on Primary Health Care where the Alma Ata Declaration was adopted, marking a paradigm shift in global public health.
What sport does Radik Zhaparov play? [SEP] South Korea at the 2016 Summer Olympics  South Korea, officially the Republic of Korea, competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 5 to 21 August 2016. This was the nation's seventeenth appearance at the Olympics. The Korean Olympic Committee sent the nation's smallest ever delegation to the Games in Olympic history since 1984. A total of 205 athletes, 103 men and 101 women, competed in 24 sports.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP]  The 2006 Korea Open in badminton was held in Seoul, from August 21 to August 27, 2006. The prize money was US$300,000.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP]  The Mixed doubles tournament of the 2006 BWF World Junior Championships is a badminton world junior individual championships for the Eye Level Cups, held on November 6–11. The defending champion of the last edition were He Hanbin and Yu Yang from China. The host pair Lee Yong-dae and Yoo Hyun-young won the gold medal in this event after beat Li Tian and Ma Jin of China in rubber games with the score 18–21, 21–19, 21–14.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP]  The Boys' doubles tournament of the 2006 BWF World Junior Championships is a badminton world junior individual championships for the Eye Level Cups, held on November 6–11. The defending champion of the last edition were Hoon Thien How and Tan Boon Heong from Malaysia. The host pair Lee Yong-dae and Cho Gun-woo won the gold medal in this event after beat Liu Xiaolong and Li Tian of China in straight games with the score 21–12, 21–16.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP]  The 2018 Korea Open was the eighteenth tournament of the 2018 BWF World Tour and also part of the Korea Open championships, which has been held since 1991. This tournament was organized by the Badminton Korea Association and sanctioned by the BWF.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP]  Jangchung Gymnasium
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP] Lin Dan  Lin Dan (born 14 October 1983) is a Chinese former professional badminton player. He is a two-time Olympic champion, five-time World champion, as well as a six-time All England champion. Widely regarded as the greatest badminton player of all time, by the age of 28 Lin had completed the "Super Grand Slam", having won what some consider to be the nine major titles in the badminton world: Olympic Games, World Championships, World Cup, Thomas Cup, Sudirman Cup, Super Series Masters Finals, All England Open, Asian Games, and Asian Championships, becoming the first and only player to achieve this feat. He also became the first men's singles player to retain the Olympic gold medal by winning in 2008 and successfully defending his title in 2012.<ref name="London2012" />   In 2004, he was dubbed "Super Dan" by opponent Peter Gade after winning the All England Open final, and the nickname has since been widely used by his fans as well as the media to refer to him, in recognition of his achievements.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP] Lee Chong Wei  Datuk Lee Chong Wei (; born 21 October 1982) is a Malaysian former badminton player. As a singles player, Lee was ranked first worldwide for 349 weeks, including a 199-week streak from 21 August 2008 to 14 June 2012. He is the fifth Malaysian player after Foo Kok Keong, Rashid Sidek, Roslin Hashim and Wong Choong Hann to achieve such a ranking (since official rankings were first kept in the 1980s), and is the only Malaysian shuttler who has held the number one ranking for more than a year.  Lee is a triple silver medalist at the Olympic Games, and the sixth Malaysian to win an Olympic medal. He repeated the achievement twice more in 2012 and 2016, thus making him the most successful Malaysian Olympian in history.  On 13 June 2019, Lee announced his retirement after struggling to return to full fitness following a nose cancer diagnosis. He was appointed as Malaysia's chef de mission for the 2020 Summer Olympics, but skipped the event due to his health concerns. He retained his role, albeit serving it virtually.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP] Peter Gade  Peter Høeg Gade (born 14 December 1976 in Aalborg, Denmark) is a Danish former professional badminton player. He currently resides in Holte in Copenhagen. He has two children with the former handball player Camilla Høeg.  Gade made his mark in badminton history through his All England Open Badminton Championships singles title in 1999 and his five European Championships crowns in the men's singles event. He topped the world rankings from 1998 to 2001. With his 22 Grand-Prix titles, he has become one of the sport's most successful players. On 22 June 2006, he briefly recaptured the number one spot in the world rankings. This was achieved after winning the Singapore Open and reaching the quarter-final at the Malaysia Open.  With his defeat in the quarter-finals of the 2012 French Open, Gade retired from international competition.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP] Korea Open (badminton)  The Korea Open is an annual badminton event that is commonly held in Seoul, South Korea. The tournament used to be known as Korea Open Super Series because it became one of the BWF Super Series tournaments beginning with 2007. BWF categorised Korea Open as one of the seven BWF World Tour Super 500 events in the BWF events structure since 2018.  The tournament is organised since 1991, however the 1998 tournament was canceled due to the poor economic conditions in the country.
What sport does 2006 Korea Open Badminton Championships play? [SEP] Lee Yong-dae  Lee Yong-dae (Hangul: 이용대; Hanja: 李龍大; ; born 11 September 1988) is a professional badminton player from South Korea who had been successful in both men's and mixed doubles. He reached world number 1 ranking with 4 different partners, Jung Jae-sung, Ko Sung-hyun and Yoo Yeon-seong in men's doubles, and Lee Hyo-jung in mixed doubles. He won a total of 43 Superseries titles, 37 in the men's doubles, the most of any doubles player in one discipline, and 6 in mixed doubles. He was ranked world number 1 in men's doubles for 117 consecutive weeks with his last partner, Yoo Yeon-seong.  After winning the 2016 Korean Superseries with Yoo, Lee announced his retirement from international badminton. He made a comeback to the international stage at the end of 2017, and started a new partnership with Kim Gi-jung in 2018. Section::::Early life. Lee started playing badminton at his local elementary school at the age of 8, taking up the sport to lose weight. When he first began competing internationally, in 2003, he was a member of the Hwasun Middle School team, then he was with Hwasun Vocational High School until the end of his junior days in 2006, before joining the Samsung Electromechanics team in 2006. He joined the national badminton team of South Korea in 2003, at the age of 15 years.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]  Sol Kyong ( or ; born June 8, 1990) is a North Korean judoka. She represents the sports team of the Pyongyang University of Mechanical Engineering.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]  Shin first garnered attention in 2004 when he won the gold medal at the 2004 Asian Junior Championship as part of the South Korean junior national team. While attending Kyonggi University in 2005, Shin got called-up to the South Korean national under-21 team for the 2005 World Junior (U21) Championship, where South Korea finished in sixth place. In May 2007 Shin first joined the South Korean senior national team to compete in the 2007 FIVB World League, where South Korea finished ninth for its best result since 1995. In November 2007 Shin also took part in the 2007 FIVB World Cup as part of the national team. At the inaugural AVC Cup, Shin played as the starting middle blocker in all six matches and helped Team Korea to the gold medal match, where they lost to Asia No. 1 Iran in full sets. Shin was part of the South Korean national team that won the 2014 AVC Cup when the team defeated India 3-0 in the final match.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]  Ong was inspired to play basketball from his father who was a varsity player while her mother initially opposed to the idea of her doing something that is considered as a "men's sport". Haydee Ong later attended the University of Santo Tomas for her collegiate studies under an athletic scholarship. After graduating, she worked as a pharmacist for two years before getting involved in basketball again.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]  Kyla Llana Magdaraog Atienza (born April 12, 1997) is a Filipina volleyball player. She currently plays for the Creamline Cool Smashers volleyball team in the Premier Volleyball League. She was a member of the FEU Lady Tamaraws volleyball team in both indoor and beach volleyball.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]  Kim Sol-mi (김솔미; born November 20, 1990) is a North Korean judoka. She won gold at the 2011 World Military Judo Championship. At the 2013 World Judo Championships, in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, she finished fifth. She took bronze at the 2014 Grand Slam in Abu Dhabi, UAE. That year, she also took the bronze at the Grand Prix in Qingdao, China. She took the bronze at the 2015 Asian Judo Championships in Kuwait. At the 2016 Asian Judo Championships in Tashkent, Uzbekistan she finished third. She competed in the women's (48 kg) judo event at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, where she did not advance past her first match.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP] North Korea at the 2010 Asian Games  North Korea participated at the 16th Asian Games in Guangzhou, China.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP] Sol Kyung-gu  Sol Kyung-gu (born May 14, 1967) is a South Korean actor. He is best known for his roles in "Public Enemy" film series, "Peppermint Candy", "Oasis", "Silmido", "Hope" and "The Merciless".
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP] North Korea at the 2016 Summer Olympics  North Korea, officially the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 5 to 21 August 2016. This was the nation's tenth appearance at the Summer Olympics.  The Olympic Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea sent the nation's smallest delegation to the Games since 2000. A total of 31 athletes, 11 men and 20 women, were selected for the North Korean team across nine different sports, marking the fourth straight Games to feature more female athletes than male. North Korea did not register any of its entrants in boxing for the first time since 1972, but was represented in artistic gymnastics for the first time in eight years, after missing out of London 2012 due to a two-year suspension for age falsification.  Notable athletes on the North Korean roster included weightlifting champions Om Yun-chol (men's 56 kg) and Rim Jong-sim (women's 75 kg), twins Kim Hye-gyong and Kim Hye-song in the women's marathon, pistol shooter and three-time Olympian Kim Jong-su, and former gymnastics champion Hong Un-jong in the women's vault. Weightlifting rookie Choe Jon-wi was selected by the committee to lead the North Korean delegation as the flag bearer in the opening ceremony.<ref name=flag-bearer/><ref name=PRK-Olympics/>  North Korea left Rio de Janeiro with a total of seven medals (2 golds, 3 silver, and 2 bronze), signifying its most successful Olympic outcome based on the overall medal count, but falling short of the 12-medal target set by its sports commission. Half of North Korea's medal haul was distributed to the weightlifters, while the rest to the competitors in artistic gymnastics, shooting, and table tennis. Among the medalists were Rim Jong-sim, who repeated her golden feat from London four years earlier in a heavier category, and double world champion Ri Se-gwang, who obtained the nation's first ever gymnastics title by a male after 24 years.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP] Jang Song-thaek  Jang Song-thaek (January or February 1946 – 12 December 2013) was a leading figure in the government of North Korea. He was married to Kim Kyong-hui, the only daughter of North Korean Premier Kim Il-sung and his first wife Kim Jong-suk, and only sister of North Korean general secretary Kim Jong-il. He was therefore the uncle (by marriage) of current leader of North Korea, Kim Jong-un.  The extent of Jang Song-thaek's power and position has not been confirmed in the West. However, in 2008 South Korean government officials and academic North Korea experts suggested that he had "de facto" leadership over North Korea while Kim Jong-il's health was declining and when Kim subsequently died. Jang was vice-chairman of the National Defence Commission, a position considered second only to that of the Supreme Leader. He is believed to have been promoted to four-star general around the time of Kim Jong-il's death in December 2011, as his first appearance in uniform was while visiting Kim lying in state. Jang was considered a "key policy adviser" to Kim Jong-un.  In December 2013, Jang was abruptly accused of being a counter-revolutionary and was stripped of all his posts and expelled from the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK). His photos were removed from official media and his image digitally removed from photos with other North Korean leaders. On 13 December, North Korea state media announced he had been executed.
What sport does Sol Ky-Ong play? [SEP]
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]  The 2006–07 Argentine Primera B Nacional was the 21st season of second division professional of football in Argentina. A total of 20 teams competed; the champion and runner-up were promoted to Argentine Primera División.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]  !colspan="5"|Semifinals !colspan="5"|Semifinals 1: Qualified because of sport advantage.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]  It was played by the teams placed 4th, 5th 6th and 7th in the Overall Standings: Atlético de Rafaela (4th), Tigre (5th), Chacarita Juniors (6th) and Platense (7th). The winning team played the Promotion Playoff Primera División-Primera B Nacional.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]  1: Qualified because of sport advantage.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]  The 2007–08 Argentine Primera B Nacional was the 22nd season of second division professional football in Argentina. A total of 20 teams competed; the champion and runner-up were promoted to Argentine Primera División.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP] 2006–07 Primera B Nacional  The 2006–07 Argentine Primera B Nacional was the 21st season of second division professional of football in Argentina. A total of 20 teams competed; the champion and runner-up were promoted to Argentine Primera División.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP] Primera Nacional  Primera Nacional (usually called simply Nacional B, in English "National B Division", and known as Primera B Nacional until the 2019–20 season) is the second division of the Argentine football league system. The competition is made up of 37 teams.  It is played by teams from all over the country. Clubs from Buenos Aires surroundings, as well as some from Santa Fe Province, are promoted from or relegated to the Primera B Metropolitana ("Metropolitan B Division") while for teams from the other provinces the Torneo Federal A ("Federal A Tournament") is the next level down. In Argentine football, Nacional B is the second-highest league, and from it, the three best teams are automatically promoted to Primera División.  Primera B Nacional games are often transmitted to Argentina and abroad on television by TyC Sports.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP] 2006–07 Torneo Argentino A  The 2006–07 Argentine Torneo Argentino A was the twelfth season of third division professional football in Argentina. A total of 24 teams competed; the champion was promoted to Primera B Nacional.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP] Club Olimpo  Club Olimpo, usually referred to as Olimpo de Bahía Blanca, is an Argentine sports club based in the city of Bahía Blanca, Buenos Aires Province. The club was founded October 15th, 1910. Its primary activity is soccer. The club is recognized in Argentina's highest soccer league. In basketball the club participated in the Torneo Nacional de Ascenso until the 2016/2017 season, stopping due to economic problems. Olimpo is considered one of the most recognized and important institutions in southern Argentina due to the history, championships won, infrastructure, large number of sports, representation of the city of Bahía Blanca, and for its fan base.  Throughout the history of the club, their basketball team has stood out. Olimpo won the Campeonato Argentino de Clubes twice, 1974 and 1978. Until 1984, Club Olimpo participated in the highest category for argentine basketball and participated in a sub-tournament of the Liga Nacional in 1986. Club Olimpo´s basketball is recognized for being the only sports club from Bahía Blanca to reach a national title on the world scale. Olimpo has won 19 championships in the first division of the Asociación Bahiense de Básquetbol, making them the team which has won the most championships. Since July 3, 1971, Olimpo plays its games in their home stadium, Estadio Norberto Tomas, which has a capacity of 2,500 people.  Soccer has always been the main activity of the club. Olimpo records the most wins in La Liga del Sur history with 28 championships. This is the oldest and most important regional tournament in Argentina. Olimpo has also won the championship in the second division three times (2001/2, 2006/7, and 2009/10), making them the club with the most wins in the competition, along with Banfield.
What sport does 2006–07 Primera B Nacional play? [SEP]
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP]  Günter Kutowski (born 2 August 1965) is a German retired professional footballer who played as a defender.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP]  Born in Paderborn, Kutowski joined Borussia Dortmund in 1984 at the age of 19, arriving from local amateurs 1. FC Paderborn. He made his Bundesliga debut on 2 March 1985 in a 1–1 home draw against Bayern Munich, and finished his first season with 16 complete matches as the club ranked in 14th position and avoided relegation by just one point. In eight of the following 11 years, Kutowski was an automatic first-choice for the Black and Yellow, scoring his first goal in the top division on 10 August 1985 in a 1–1 draw at 1. FC Saarbrucken. In the 1992–93 campaign he appeared in 40 official games, including eight in the team's runner-up run in the UEFA Cup. Kutowski left Borussia in 1996, joining lower league side TuS Paderborn-Neuhaus. His last stop as a professional came in 1996–97, as he played a few matches with Rot-Weiss Essen who ultimately suffered relegation from the 2. Bundesliga; he retired altogether at 36, and subsequently became a player's agent.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] Bundesliga: 1994–95, 1995–96 ; DFL-Supercup: 1989, 1996 ; DFB-Pokal: 1988–89 ; UEFA Cup: Runner-up 1992–93 Borussia Dortmund
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP]  Bruno Guttowski (8 November 1924 – 4 July 1977) was a professional ice hockey player. He won the German championship with KEV in 1952 and was said to be one of the best defensemen in Germany three times. In 1955 he moved to Mannheim where he started as coach of the MERC. The following season he joined the team as defenseman and scored 71 goals for Mannheim in 8 seasons. When scoring his last goal in 1964 he was 39 years, one month and 28 days old and remains, as of 2013, the oldest scorer of the MERC. Guttowski participated in 58 matches and 10 world championships for his national team. He represented Germany in the 1956 Winter Olympics. Guttowski died in 1977 at the age of 52. He is member of the Hockey Hall of Fame Germany. On November 23. 2012 the Adler Mannheim retired his #12.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] Adolf Lesser (1851–1926) a German physician who specialized in forensic medicine ; Michael F. Blenski (1862–1932), Wisconsin politician ; Adolf Wallenberg (1862–1949) a German internist and neurologist ; John S. Flizikowski, (1868–1934) a Chicago architect ; Ferdinand Noeldechen (1895–1951), general ; Theo Mackeben (1897–1953) a German pianist, conductor and composer, particularly of film music ; Kazimierz Kropidłowski (1931–1998) a Polish long jumper, competed at the 1956 Summer Olympics ; Henryk Jankowski (1936-2010) a Polish Roman Catholic priest and Member of Solidarity movement ; Kazimierz Deyna (1947–1989), soccer player, over 600 pro games and 97 for Poland ; Władysław Wojtakajtis (1949–2016) a Polish swimmer, competed at the 1968 and 1972 Summer Olympics ; Andrzej Grubba (1958–2005) a Polish table tennis player ; Maria Kamrowska (born 1966) a retired Polish heptathlete. ; Paweł Papke (born 1977) a former Polish volleyball player ; Piotr Wiśniewski (born 1982) a Polish footballer, who played 230 games for Lechia Gdańsk ; Oktawia Nowacka (born 1991) a Polish modern pentathlete and bronze medalist in the 2016 Summer Olympics
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] List of Borussia Dortmund players  Borussia Dortmund is a German football club based in Dortmund, North Rhine-Westphalia. The team plays in the Bundesliga – the highest tier in the German football league system. The club was founded in 1909.  The following is a list of the players with the most first team appearances and goals for the club. This consists of appearances and goals in the Bundesliga, 2. Bundesliga North, Regionalliga West, DFB-Pokal, DFL-Ligapokal, DFL-Supercup, European Cup / UEFA Champions League, UEFA Cup / UEFA Europa League, UEFA Super Cup, UEFA Cup Winners' Cup, Intercontinental Cup, Oberliga West and the finals of the German football championship.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] Paderborn  Paderborn (; Westphalian: "Patterbuorn", also "Paterboärn") is a city in eastern North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany, capital of the Paderborn district. The name of the city derives from the river Pader and "Born", an old German term for the source of a river. The river Pader originates in more than 200 springs near Paderborn Cathedral, where St. Liborius is buried.  Paderborn ranks 55th on the List of cities in Germany by population.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] 1989 DFB-Supercup  The 1989 DFB-Supercup was the third DFB-Supercup, an annual football match contested by the winners of the previous season's Bundesliga and DFB-Pokal competitions.  The match was played at the Fritz-Walter-Stadion, Kaiserslautern, and contested by league champions Bayern Munich and cup winners Borussia Dortmund.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in athletics (men)  This is the complete list of men's medalists in athletics at the Summer Olympics. It does not include the medalists from the Athletics at the 1906 Intercalated Games – these are no longer regarded as an official part of the Olympic chronology by the IOC.
What sport does Günter Kutowski play? [SEP] Bob (given name)  Bob is a male given name or a hypocorism, usually of Robert, and sometimes a diminutive of Bobby. It is most common in English-speaking countries such as the United States, Canada, Ireland, the United Kingdom, Australia, and New Zealand and some African countries.  It most likely originated from the hypocorism Rob, short for Robert. Rhyming names were popular in the Middle Ages, so "Richard" became "Rick", "Hick", or "Dick", "William" became "Will", "Gill", or "Bill", and "Robert" became "Rob", "Hob", "Dob", "Nob", or "Bob".  It can also be used as a nickname for the name Vladimir, since a commonly used nickname for Vladimir is "Vova" which in Cyrillic script ("Вова") resembles the name Bob in Latin script; historically, both names (Robert and Vladimir) share the same meaning.  In 1960 nearly 3,000 babies in the United States were given the name Bob, compared to fewer than 50 in 2000.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]  The 1994 Swedish Open was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts in Båstad, Sweden that was part of the World Series of the 1994 ATP Tour. It was the 47th edition of the tournament and was held from 4 July until 11 July 1994. Unseeded Bernd Karbacher won the singles title.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]  The 1993 Swedish Open was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts in Båstad, Sweden that was part of the World Series of the 1993 ATP Tour. It was the 46th edition of the tournament and was held from 5 July until 11 July 1993. Unseeded Horst Skoff won the singles title.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]  The 1994 Stockholm Open was a men's tennis tournament played on indoor hard courts. It was the 26th edition of the Stockholm Open and was part of the ATP Super 9 of the 1994 ATP Tour. It took place at the Stockholm Globe Arena in Stockholm, Sweden, from 24 October until 31 October 1994. Sixth-seeded Boris Becker won the singles title. The singles draw was headlined by World No. 1 Pete Sampras, Goran Ivanišević, and Michael Stich. Other top seeds were Sergi Bruguera, Stefan Edberg, Boris Becker, Michael Chang, and Andre Agassi.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]  🇸🇪 Jan Apell / 🇸🇪 Jonas Björkman defeated 🇸🇪 Nicklas Kulti / 🇸🇪 Mikael Tillström, 6–2, 6–3
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]  The 1994 Swedish Golf Tour was the eleventh season of the Swedish Golf Tour, a series of professional golf tournaments held in Sweden, Denmark and Finland. Most of the tournaments also featured on the 1994 Challenge Tour (CHA).
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP] 1994 Swedish Golf Tour  The 1994 Swedish Golf Tour was the eleventh season of the Swedish Golf Tour, a series of professional golf tournaments held in Sweden, Denmark and Finland.  Most of the tournaments also featured on the 1994 Challenge Tour (CHA).
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP] 1994 Swedish Golf Tour (women)  The 1994 Swedish Golf Tour, known as the Lancôme Tour for sponsorship reasons, was the ninth season of the Swedish Golf Tour, a series of professional golf tournaments for women held in Sweden.  1994 was the fourth year with Lancôme as the main sponsor.<ref name="sg1994-5"/> Åsa Gottmo won two tournaments and her first Order of Merit.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP] Stefan Edberg  Stefan Bengt Edberg (; born 19 January 1966) is a Swedish former professional tennis player. A major proponent of the serve-and-volley style of tennis, he won six Grand Slam singles titles and three Grand Slam men's doubles titles between 1985 and 1996. He is one of only two men in the Open Era to have been ranked world No. 1 in both singles and doubles (the other being John McEnroe). He also won the Masters Grand Prix and was a part of the Swedish Davis Cup-winning team four times. In addition, he won four Masters Series titles, four Championship Series titles and the unofficial 1984 Olympic tournament, was ranked in the singles top 10 for ten successive years, and ranked nine years in the top 5.After retirement, Edberg began coaching Roger Federer in January 2014, with this partnership ending in December 2015.
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP]
What sport does 1994 Swedish Open play? [SEP] 1994 FIFA World Cup  The 1994 FIFA World Cup was the 15th FIFA World Cup, the world championship for men's national soccer teams. It was hosted by the United States and took place from June 17 to July 17, 1994, at nine venues across the country. The United States was chosen as the host by FIFA on July 4, 1988. Despite soccer's relative lack of popularity in the host nation, the tournament was the most financially successful in World Cup history. It broke tournament records with overall attendance of 3,587,538 and an average of 68,991 per game, marks that stood unsurpassed as of 2022 despite the expansion of the competition from 24 to 32 teams starting with the 1998 World Cup.  Brazil was crowned the winner after defeating Italy 3–2 in a penalty shoot-out at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California near Los Angeles, after the game had ended 0–0 after extra time. It was the first World Cup final to be decided on penalties. The victory made Brazil the first nation to win four World Cup titles. There were three new entrants in the tournament: Greece, Nigeria and Saudi Arabia; Russia also appeared as a separate nation for the first time, following the breakup of the Soviet Union, and for the first time since 1938, a unified Germany took part in the tournament. They were also defending champions, but were eliminated in quarter-finals by Bulgaria. It was the first World Cup where three points were awarded for a victory instead of two and also the first with the back-pass rule. This was done to encourage a more attacking style of soccer as a response to the criticism of the defensive tactics and low-scoring matches of the 1990 World Cup. This resulted in an average of 2.71 goals per match.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP]   Najeh Humoud  (Arabic: ناجح حمود حريب) is a former football coach of Najaf FC and Iraq. He played in midfield for Kufa FC in the 1970s, and the Najaf province team but never managed to play in the Iraqi first division. He began his coaching career with Najaf FC in 1987, and helped the club to their first ever cup in 1998 as his team beat Al-Shorta 4-0 at the Al Shaab Stadium to lift the Umm Al-Maarak Cup. He went on to manage the Iraqi youth team in 1998 and worked as Zoran Smileski's assistant at the 1998 Asian Youth Championship. Najeh then coached the Iraq national football team in 1999. He was Vice-President of the Iraq Football Association from 2004-2011 and the president of the Iraq Football Association from 2011 to 2014. Aside from football, Najih was also the director of the Kufa Cement Factory.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP]  Senobars's first national game was for Iran boys national volleyball team in 2012, he joined the Iran men's national volleyball team for 6 years.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP]  Daoud Musa Daoud (born February 2, 1982) is a professional basketball player. He plays for Qatar SC of the Qatar basketball league. He is also a member of the Qatar national basketball team. Musa competed for the Qatar national basketball team at the 2005, 2007 and FIBA Asia Championship 2009. He also competed for Qatar at their only FIBA World Championship performance to date, in 2006, where he averaged 5.2 points per game. Previously he competed for the junior national team at the 1999 FIBA World Championship for Junior Men and 2001 FIBA World Championship for Young Men.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP]  Adel Humoud (عادل حمود, born 20 June 1986) is a Kuwaiti footballer who is a Midfielder.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP]  Mohamed Masoud (born May 1, 1994) is an Egyptian male volleyball player. He is part of the Egypt men's national volleyball team. On club level he plays for Smouha SC, then in June 2016 he moved to Al Ahly (volleyball)
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP] Al-Najaf SC  Al-Najaf Sports Club () is an Iraqi professional football club based in Najaf. They are members of the Iraqi Premier League. Al-Najaf has competed in the 2007 AFC Champions League.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP] Hussein Saeed  Hussein Saeed Mohammed (, born 21 January 1958) is an Iraqi former footballer who played as a forward for the Iraqi Premier League club Al-Talaba and the Iraqi national team and is a former president of the Iraq Football Association. Saeed is in ninth place in the list of top international goal scorers, with 78 goals. Along with Ahmed Radhi, he is considered to be the best Iraqi player of the 20th century and features in 25th place in Asia's Best Players of the Century list. Hussein is currently the Iraqi national team's highest scoring player with 78 goals.  Saeed started his professional football career at the age of 17, when he joined the Iraq national varsity football team and won the 1975 Arab Schools Games gold medal. In 1975, he joined Al-Jamiea, who later merged with Al-Talaba, where he spent all 14 years of his career, achieving three league titles and getting the top goalscorer of the league award in three seasons. He won two AFC U-19 Championships, two Arabian Gulf Cups, where he was the top goalscorer of both occasions and the best player of one, a World Military Cup, and an Asian Games gold medal.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP] Al-Kufa SC  Al-Kufa Sports Club (), is an Iraqi football team based in Kufa, Al-Najaf, that plays in Iraq Division One.
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP] Iraq Football Association  The Iraq Football Association (IFA) () is the governing body of football in Iraq, controlling the Iraqi national team and the Iraqi Premier League. The Iraqi Football Association was founded in 1948 and has been a member of FIFA since 1950, the Asian Football Confederation since 1970, and the Sub-confederation regional body West Asian Football Federation since 2001. Iraq is also part of the Union of Arab Football Associations and has been a member since 1974. The Iraqi team is commonly known as "Usood Al-Rafidain" (), which literally means "Lions of Mesopotamia".
What sport does Najeh Humoud play? [SEP] Humam Tariq Humam Tariq Faraj Naoush (; born 10 February 1996 in Baghdad, Iraq), is a professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or winger for Esteghlal in the Persian Gulf Pro League and the Iraq national team. Tariq has long been considered one of Iraq's most talented footballers. He has been nicknamed the "Iraqi Messi". He has represented Iraq at Under-19, Under-20, Under-22, Under-23 and full international level, making his debut for the national team at the age of 16, making him the youngest Iraqi in history to represent the senior team. Humam represented Iraq at the Rio
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]  The 2004 Legg Mason Tenis Classic was the 36th edition of this tennis tournament and was played on outdoor hard courts. The tournament was part of the International Series of the 2004 ATP Tour. It was held at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Washington, D.C. from August 16 through August 22, 2004.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]  The 2003 Legg Mason Tennis Classic was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Washington, D.C. in the United States and was part of the International Series of the 2003 ATP Tour.It was the 35th edition of the tournament and ran from July 28 through August 3, 2003. Tim Henman won the singles title.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]  The 2005 Legg Mason Tenis Classic was the 36th edition of this tennis tournament and was played on outdoor hard courts. The tournament was part of the International Series of the 2005 ATP Tour. It was held at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Washington, D.C. from August 1 through August 7, 2005.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]  The 2006 Legg Mason Tennis Classic was the 37th edition of this men's tennis tournament and was played on outdoor hard courts. The tournament was part of the International Series of the 2006 ATP Tour. It was held at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Washington, D.C. from July 31 through August 6, 2006.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]  The 2002 Legg Mason Tennis Classic was a tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Washington, D.C. in the United States and was part of the International Series Gold of the 2002 ATP Tour. The tournament ran from August 12 through August 18, 2002.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP] Andy Roddick  Andrew Stephen Roddick (born 30 August 1982) is an American former world No. 1 tennis player. He is a major champion, having won the 2003 US Open. Roddick reached four other major finals (Wimbledon in 2004, 2005, and 2009, and the US Open in 2006), losing to rival Roger Federer each time. Roddick was ranked in the year-end top 10 for nine consecutive years (2002–2010) and won five Masters titles in that period. He was also a crucial player in the U.S. Davis Cup team's successful run to the title in 2007. As of 2023, he is the most recent North American man to win a singles major (2003 US Open), the most recent to hold the world No. 1 ranking, and the most recent to claim the year-end world No. 1 ranking (which he achieved in 2003). Roddick retired from professional tennis following the 2012 US Open to focus on his work at the Andy Roddick Foundation. In retirement, Roddick played for the Austin Aces in World Team Tennis in 2015. He was also the 2015 and 2017 champion of the QQQ Champions Series. In 2017, Roddick was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame. He is married to Brooklyn Decker, a swimwear model and actress.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP] Washington Open (tennis)  The Washington Open (known as the Citi Open for sponsorship reasons) is an annual hardcourt tennis tournament played at the William H.G. FitzGerald Tennis Center in Rock Creek Park in Washington, D.C. The Washington Open is part of the ATP Tour 500, WTA 250, and the US Open Series, the latter of which is a schedule of North American hard court events leading into the US Open.  After the 2014 edition, the Washington Open dropped out of the US Open Series, showing frustration over US Open Series broadcaster ESPN providing little coverage of the tournament on television. As of 2019, the Washington Open has rejoined the series, but still maintains the broadcast agreement it had reached with Tennis Channel.
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]
What sport does 2004 Legg Mason Tennis Classic play? [SEP]
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]  Luciano Germán Vella (born April 13, 1981) is a retired Argentine footballer who played as a right-back.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]  He started playing football for his home town club Newell's Old Boys. He transferred to then La Liga club Cádiz CF in January 2006. He endured a rather unsuccessful spell in Spain with Cádiz relegated after the 2005–06 season. They were then unable to bounce back the following season (finishing 5th), and with the club looking to miss promotion again half-way through the 2007–08 season, Vella returned to Argentina with Vélez Sársfield for the start of the 2008 Clausura championship. On 10 June 2010 Newell's Old Boys loaned the 29-year-old right wingback from Club Atlético Independiente.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]  Luciano Velardi (born 20 August 1981) is an Italian football player. He spent one season in the Bundesliga with VfL Bochum.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]  Luciano Sebastián Goux (born 27 January 1980) is an Argentinian football player, who plays for Defensores de Belgrano. He played the majority of his football in his native Argentina, with a stint in Malaysia in between. He played for Malaysian team Perak FA in the 2004 Super League Malaysia season, and helped Perak to win that year's Malaysia FA Cup, scoring in the final. He played for Chilean team Everton de Viña del Mar in 2012-2013, before joining his current club Defensores de Belgrano in 2013.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]  Roger Vella (born 15 January 1905, date of death unknown) was a Maltese water polo player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1928 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP]
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP] List of Puerto Ricans  This is a list of notable people from Puerto Rico which includes people who were born in Puerto Rico (Borinquen) and people who are of full or partial Puerto Rican descent. The government of Puerto Rico has been issuing "Certificates of Puerto Rican Citizenship" to anyone born in Puerto Rico or to anyone born outside of Puerto Rico with at least one parent who was born in Puerto Rico since 2007. Also included in the list are some long-term continental American and other residents or immigrants of other ethnic heritages who have made Puerto Rico their home and consider themselves to be Puerto Ricans.  The list is divided into categories and, in some cases, sub-categories, which best describe the field for which the subject is most noted. Some categories such as "Actors, actresses, comedians and directors" are relative since a subject who is a comedian may also be an actor or director. In some cases a subject may be notable in more than one field, such as Luis A. Ferré, who is notable both as a former governor and as an industrialist. However, the custom is to place the subject's name under the category for which the subject is most noted.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP] List of Argentine sportspeople  This is a list of people from Argentina involved in sports or athletics.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP] Robert Smith (musician)  Robert James Smith (born 21 April 1959) is an English musician. He is the lead singer, guitarist, primary songwriter, and only continuous member of the rock band the Cure, which he co-founded in 1978. He was also the lead guitarist for the band Siouxsie and the Banshees from 1982 to 1984, and was part of the short-lived group the Glove in 1983.  Smith is known for his guitar-playing style, distinctive voice, and fashion sense, with the lattera pale complexion, smeared red lipstick, black eye-liner, a dishevelled nest of wiry black hair, and all-black clothesbeing highly influential on the goth subculture that rose to prominence in the 1980s. He was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Cure in 2019.
What sport does Luciano Vella play? [SEP] List of deaths due to COVID-19  This is a list of notable people reported as having died from coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), as a result of infection by the virus SARS-CoV-2 during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP]  The FA Cup 1988–89 is the 108th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition; The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short. The large number of clubs entering the tournament from lower down the English football league system meant that the competition started with a number of preliminary and qualifying rounds. The 28 victorious teams from the Fourth Round Qualifying progressed to the First Round Proper.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP]  The FA Cup 1987-88 is the 107th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition; The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short. The large number of clubs entering the tournament from lower down the English football league system meant that the competition started with a number of preliminary and qualifying rounds. The 28 victorious teams from the Fourth Round Qualifying progressed to the First Round Proper.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP]  The 1989–90 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds opened the 109th season of competition in England for 'The Football Association Challenge Cup' (FA Cup), the world's oldest association football single knockout competition. A total of 540 clubs were accepted for the competition, up 15 from the previous season’s 525. The large number of clubs entering the tournament from lower down (Levels 5 through 8) in the English football pyramid meant that the competition started with five rounds of preliminary (1) and qualifying (4) knockouts for these non-League teams. The 28 winning teams from Fourth Round Qualifying progressed to the First Round Proper, where League teams tiered at Levels 3 and 4 entered the competition.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP]  The FA Cup 1986-87 is the 106th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition; The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short. The large number of clubs entering the tournament from lower down the English football league system meant that the competition started with a number of preliminary and qualifying rounds. The 28 victorious teams from the Fourth Round Qualifying progressed to the First Round Proper.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP]  See 1988-89 FA Cup for details of the rounds from the First Round Proper onwards.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP] 1988–89 FA Cup  The 1988–89 FA Cup was the 108th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition, The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP] 1988–89 FA Cup qualifying rounds  The FA Cup 1988–89 is the 108th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition; The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short. The large number of clubs entering the tournament from lower down the English football league system meant that the competition started with a number of preliminary and qualifying rounds. The 28 victorious teams from the Fourth Round Qualifying progressed to the First Round Proper.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP] 1989–90 FA Cup  The 1989–90 FA Cup was the 109th season of the world's oldest football knockout competition, The Football Association Challenge Cup, or FA Cup for short. The competition started in September 1989 for teams outside the football league who played in a qualifying competition.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP] Non-English football clubs in the FA Cup  The Football Association Challenge Cup, commonly known as the FA Cup, is a knockout competition in English association football. It is the oldest football competition in the world, having commenced in 1871.  Although the competition is the national cup of England, numerous clubs from outside England have participated in the tournament, with some still doing so as of 2016.
What sport does 1988–89 FA Cup Qualifying Rounds play? [SEP] Sutton United 2–1 Coventry City (1989)  The 1988–89 FA Cup third-round match between Sutton United and Coventry City was an association football game played at Gander Green Lane in Sutton, on 7 January 1989. Coventry City entered the FA Cup in the third round, as they participated in the Football League First Division, the top tier of English league football. Sutton United of the Conference, the fifth tier of English football, had started their cup run in the 4th Qualifying round, winning three ties to reach this stage of the competition. Coventry, the away team, went into the match as strong favourites, a reflection of the gulf in divisions that separated the two teams.  The match was refereed by Alf Buksh in front of 8,000 spectators. Coventry's Brian Kilcline had the best early chance after he received the ball while unmarked in the penalty area, but his header was straight at Sutton goalkeeper Trevor Roffey. The home side took the lead three minutes before half-time when Mickey Stephens took a corner kick towards the near post which was missed by Coventry goalkeeper Steve Ogrizovic and then volleyed into the goal by Tony Rains. Seven minutes into the second half, Coventry were level after Steve Sedgley passed the ball into the Sutton penalty area, allowing David Phillips to shoot past an advancing Roffey to make it 1–1. In the 59th minute, Stephens took a corner kick short to Phil Dawson who struck an outswinging cross which Matthew Hanlan volleyed in to give Sutton the lead once again. Despite numerous late chances for Coventry, the match ended 2–1 and Sutton United progressed to the fourth round of the FA Cup.  One of the most famous 'giant-killings' in the competition's history, the match is among the few instances when a non-League side has defeated a club from the highest tier of English football. It remained the most recent such occasion for 24 years, until Luton Town beat Norwich City in the FA Cup fourth round in 2013. The match has been described as not only "the biggest shock in the history of the FA Cup but one of the biggest in any game ever". Sutton United went on to lose 8–0 in the fourth round to Norwich City and ended the season mid-table in the Conference. Coventry City's league form declined after the cup tie as they dropped to seventh place by the conclusion of the First Division season.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]  José Martínez Morote (born 5 February 1984 in Hellín, Albacete) is a Paralympic athlete from Spain competing mainly in category T20 track and field events. He has an intellectual disability, attended school in Cruz de Mayo and serves as a mentor to local track and field athletes. While he originally started sport playing football, he switched to athletics by the age of 16 at the suggestion of a teacher who noticed his speed with the ball. He has gone on to compete at the 2007 World Games, the 2011 IPC World Athletics Championships in Christchurch, New Zealand and the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Martínez has held at least two athletics scholarships to continue his participation in the sport.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]  Morote started competing in athletics when he was 16 years old. Prior to taking up the sport, he was involved with football but switched to athletics after a teacher suggested his speed with the ball was better suited for athletics. He has competed in international competitions in Tunisia, Hungary, Sweden, Australia, France, Prague, Brazil and China. Locally, he participated in a number of workshops where he was coached by Camilo and Maxi. He is a member of Club Paralímpico de la Región athletic club in Castilla-La Mancha, where he is the only male participant. He has been funded by the 'Castilla-La Mancha Olímpica' program run by the Foundation for Culture and Sports of Castilla-La Mancha. When
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]  Gómez took up triathlon at the age of 15 after previously playing football and competing in swimming. However his career suffered a setback in 2000 when a routine medical test by the Consejo Superior de Deportes (CSD) revealed an "abnormal heart valve", leading to a six-year battle between Gómez and the Spanish sporting authorities regarding his right to compete internationally. He initially won this right in November 2003, but he was not selected for the 2004 Summer Olympics and in 2005 the CSD banned him from international and domestic competition until February 2006. In the nine years from 2002 to 2010,
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]  Xavier Escudé Torrente (born May 17, 1966 in Terrassa, Catalonia) is a former field hockey player from Spain, who won the silver medal with the Men's National Team at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. He also participated in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, and the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]  Javier Humet Gaminde (born 20 January 1990) is a Spanish-born Romanian handball player who plays for Dinamo București and the Romania national team.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP] Spain at the 1976 Summer Olympics  Spain competed at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 113 competitors, 103 men and 10 women, took part in 68 events in 14 sports.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP]
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP] Spain at the 1988 Summer Olympics  Spain competed at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea. 229 competitors, 200 men and 29 women, took part in 130 events in 24 sports. At the closing ceremony, a short Catalan segment was performed on a part of the Olympic Stadium, as the country hosted the next Olympics in Barcelona.  As of 2021, this is the most recent time that Spain did not win at least eleven medals or three gold medals.
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP] Spanish phonology  This article is about the phonology and phonetics of the Spanish language. Unless otherwise noted, statements refer to Castilian Spanish, the standard dialect used in Spain on radio and television. For historical development of the sound system see History of Spanish. For details of geographical variation see Spanish dialects and varieties.  Phonemes are written inside slashes () and allophones inside brackets ().
What sport does Francisco Javier Lloret Martínez play? [SEP] Traditionalism (Spain)  Traditionalism () is a Spanish political doctrine formulated in the early 19th century. It understands politics as implementing the social kingship of Jesus Christ, with Catholicism as the state religion and Catholic religious criteria regulating public morality and every legal aspect of Spain. In practical terms it advocates a loosely organized monarchy combined with strong royal powers, with some checks and balances provided by organicist representation, and with society structured on a corporative basis. Traditionalism is an ultra-reactionary doctrine; it rejects concepts such as democracy, human rights, constitution, universal suffrage, sovereignty of the people, division of powers, religious liberty, freedom of speech, freedom of commerce, equality of individuals, parliamentarism and so on. The doctrine was adopted as the theoretical platform of the Carlist socio-political movement, though it appeared also in a non-Carlist incarnation. Traditionalism has never exercised major influence among the Spanish governmental strata, yet periodically it was capable of mass mobilization and at times partially filtered into the ruling practice.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP]  Laurier was born in Créteil (Val-de-Marne). He made his debut for Coeuilly, which became Stade de Reims. At the champenois club, he played alongside big names such as Raymond Kopa and Lucien Muller. He played his first match in the championship alongside professionals on 17 October 1965. He took part in the return of the club to the top-flight in 1970. Two years later, he was signed by Paris Football Club, who had returned to Division 1. However, the Parisian club were relegated again two years later. Alain Laurier then joined Angers, without further success. He spent two seasons with the club in Division 2. In 1976, he began his conversion to management. He became manager (DEPF), while continuing as a player at Le Mans. He continued as a player-manager at Caen, stopping as a player in his last season at the Normandy club. He then coached Poissy, Grenoble, Istres, Dijon as well as foreign clubs in Dubai and China. From 2002 to 2004, he was technical director of the Qatar team.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP]  Alain Laurier (born 12 September 1944) is a former French footballer turned manager-
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] Amateur and military international ; Took part in 1968 Mexico Olympics ; Champion of France D2 in 1966 with Stade de Reims ; First match in Division 2 : 17 October 1965 :Reims-Boulogne (2-1) ; First match in Division 1 : 8 October 1966 :Reims-Bordeaux (4-1) ; 63 matches and 3 goals in Division 1 with Stade de Reims ; 69 matches and 7 goals in Division 2 with Stade de Reims ; Best manager in D2 in 1991 with Istres (awarded by France-Football magazine)
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP]  In 1997, François competed in the Canada Games with Quebec, winning the competition, and was then selected to represent Canada at the Francophonie Games in Madagascar, also winning the competition. At the 1997 Francophonie Games, François played alongside Patrice Bernier in the team. His best memory was defeating Cameroon 1–0 in the semi-finals of the competition. François played futsal by the QCSL World Cup 2010.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP]  Skilled in multiple sports, Gerard has been recognized by Canada's Sports Hall of Fame to have been "a first class cricketer, an outstanding paddler and a better than ordinary baseball player" in his youth. At age 15 he helped the Ottawa-New Edinburgh Canoe Club win the junior Dominion paddling championship. In later life he was an avid golfer and fisherman, spending his summers near Pembroke, Ontario, a town close to Ottawa. He played rugby football (a forerunner to Canadian football), joining the Ottawa Rough Riders in 1909 as a halfback, helping them win the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union title that year. He continued playing for the Rough Riders until 1913, leaving the team when he turned professional with the Senators. As Canadian football was strictly amateur at the time, Gerard would have been unable to continue in the sport if he became a professional athlete.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] Alain Laurier  Alain Laurier () (born 12 September 1944) is a former French footballer turned manager-
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] Al Wasl F.C.  Al Wasl Football Club () is an Emirati professional football club based in Dubai, that competes in the United Arab Emirates Football League. It is a part of the multi-sports club Al Wasl SC. Argentina-legend Diego Maradona was the manager of the club in 2011 and 2012. The club has a supporters group, named as the "Ultras Junoon".
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (1962 film)  The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse is a 1962 American drama film directed by Vincente Minnelli and starring Glenn Ford, Ingrid Thulin, Charles Boyer, Lee J. Cobb, Paul Lukas, Yvette Mimieux, Karl Boehm and Paul Henreid. It is loosely based on the 1916 novel by Vicente Blasco Ibáñez, which had been filmed in 1921 with Rudolph Valentino. Unlike the first film, it was a critical and commercial disaster, which contributed greatly to the financial problems of MGM.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] Le Mans FC  Le Mans Football Club (; commonly referred to as Le Mans FC, formerly referred as Le Muc) is a French association football club based in Le Mans. The club was founded in 1985 as a result of a merger under the name Le Mans Union Club 72. In 2010, Le Mans changed its name to Le Mans FC to coincide with the re-modeling of the club, which includes moving into a new stadium, MMArena, which opened in January 2011. The stadium is based in the interior of the famous circuit in the city.  The club were controversially relegated from 2019–20 Ligue 2 when the season was terminated early due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
What sport does Alain Laurier play? [SEP] Alain Rayes  Alain Rayes (born December 11, 1971) is a Canadian politician, who was elected to represent the riding of Richmond—Arthabaska in the House of Commons of Canada in the 2015 Canadian federal election, and reelected in the 2019 and 2021 elections. From 2017 to 2019 and 2021 to 2022, Rayes served as Conservative leader Andrew Scheer as well as Erin O'Toole's Quebec lieutenant.  Before federal politics, Rayes served for six years as the mayor of Victoriaville.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]  Francisco David González Borges (born 25 August 1981) is a Spanish footballer who plays as a midfielder for UD Tamaraceite.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]  In 2004, González was called up to take part of the 2004 CONMEBOL Men Pre-Olympic Tournament disputed in Chile. He played for the senior team in a 2–1 win against South Korea in 15 January 2005.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]  González is a Street League competitor and placed 7th at the Ontario, California event in 2012. As of 2013, his best X Games result is 9th place for the street skateboarding event.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]  He was with the Swiss U-19 squad which finished bottom in the qualifying group in 2005 UEFA European Under-19 Football Championship. He also with the Swiss U-20 sides which finished bottom of the final group at 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship, as 3rd goalkeeper.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]  González was a part of the Spain squad which won the bronze medal at the 2014 Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing, China. He played in two Junior World Cups. He was named the best player of the 2016 Junior World Cup.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP]
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP] Jorge Luis Borges  Jorge Francisco Isidoro Luis Borges Acevedo (; ; 24 August 1899 – 14 June 1986) was an Argentine short-story writer, essayist, poet and translator, as well as a key figure in Spanish-language and international literature. His best-known books, "Ficciones" ("Fictions") and "El Aleph" ("The Aleph"), published in the 1940s, are collections of short stories exploring themes of dreams, labyrinths, chance, infinity, archives, mirrors, fictional writers and mythology. Borges' works have contributed to philosophical literature and the fantasy genre, and majorly influenced the magic realist movement in 20th century Latin American literature.  Born in Buenos Aires, Borges later moved with his family to Switzerland in 1914, where he studied at the Collège de Genève. The family travelled widely in Europe, including Spain. On his return to Argentina in 1921, Borges began publishing his poems and essays in surrealist literary journals. He also worked as a librarian and public lecturer. In 1955, he was appointed director of the National Public Library and professor of English Literature at the University of Buenos Aires. He became completely blind by the age of 55. Scholars have suggested that his progressive blindness helped him to create innovative literary symbols through imagination. By the 1960s, his work was translated and published widely in the United States and Europe. Borges himself was fluent in several languages.  In 1961, he came to international attention when he received the first Formentor Prize, which he shared with Samuel Beckett. In 1971, he won the Jerusalem Prize. His international reputation was consolidated in the 1960s, aided by his works being available in English, by the Latin American Boom and by the success of García Márquez's "One Hundred Years of Solitude". He dedicated his final work, "The Conspirators", to the city of Geneva, Switzerland. Writer and essayist J. M. Coetzee said of him: "He, more than anyone, renovated the language of fiction and thus opened the way to a remarkable generation of Spanish-American novelists."
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP] Nuno Borges (tennis)  Nuno Borges (born February 19, 1997) is a Portuguese tennis player.  Borges has a career high ATP singles ranking of world No. 91 achieved on 21 November 2022 and a doubles ranking of world No. 69 achieved on 19 September 2022. Borges has a career high ITF juniors ranking of World No. 44 achieved on 13 April 2015.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP] Francisco Cabral (tennis)  Francisco Cabral (born 8 January 1997) is a Portuguese tennis player.  Cabral has a career high ATP singles ranking of world No. 862 achieved on 5 March 2018. He also has a career high doubles ranking of world No. 45 achieved on 12 September 2022.
What sport does Francisco David González Borges play? [SEP] Ron Borges  Ron Borges is an American sportswriter for the Talk of Fame Network. He has previously written for "The Boston Globe", the "Boston Herald" and was a regular guest on "The Mike Felger Show", which aired on 890 ESPN radio until July 2008. Borges also was a regular contributor to the HBO.com's Boxing website until 2008. Borges also writes for "The Sweet Science", a boxing website.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP]  The '''1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season''' was the 21st season of the 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga, the second level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia alongside the 1. Česká národní hokejová liga. 12 teams participated in the league, and Slovan ChZJD Bratislava won the championship and were promoted to the Czechoslovak First Ice Hockey League. Plastika Nitra was also promoted.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP]  The '''1988–89 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season''' was the 20th season of the 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga, the second level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia alongside the 1. Česká národní hokejová liga. 12 teams participated in the league, and Partizán Liptovský Mikuláš won the championship. ZŤS Martin and ZVL Skalica relegated.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP]  The '''1990–91 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season''' was the 22nd season of the 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga, the second level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia alongside the 1. Česká národní hokejová liga. 12 teams participated in the league, and ŠKP PS Poprad won the championship and was promoted to the Czechoslovak First Ice Hockey League. Slávia Ekonóm Bratislava was relegated.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP]  The '''1987–88 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season''' was the 19th season of the 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga, the second level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia alongside the 1. Česká národní hokejová liga. 12 teams participated in the league, and TJ Plastika Nitra won the championship. TJ Gumárne 1. mája Púchov was relegated.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP]  The '''1986–87 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season''' was the 18th season of the 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga, the second level of ice hockey in Czechoslovakia alongside the 1. Česká národní hokejová liga. 12 teams participated in the league, and TJ Plastika Nitra won the championship. Slávia Ekonóm Bratislava was relegated.
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP] clubs played in the German Gauliga Sudetenland. In the Slovak Republic an independent Slovak league, the Slovenská liga, had been established in 1939 and played out its own championship which was won by ŠK Bratislava in the 1940–41 season. A national Czechoslovak championship was not played between 1939 and 1945. For the 1940–41 season FC Bohemians Praha and SK Libeň had been newly promoted to the league. 1940–41 Národní liga The 1940–41 Národní liga (English: "National league") was the second season of the Národní liga, the first tier of league football in the Nazi Germany-annexed Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP] 1939–40 Slovenská liga The 1939–40 Slovenská liga (English:"Slovak league") was the second season of the Slovenská liga, the first tier of league football in the Slovak Republic, formerly part of Czechoslovakia until the German occupation of the country in March 1939. In the Slovak Republic an independent Slovak league had been established in 1939 and played out its own championship which was won by ŠK Bratislava in 1939–40. In the German-annexed Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia a separate league, the "Národní liga" (English:"National league"), was played and won by Slavia Prague in the 1939–40 season. A national Czechoslovak championship was
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP] clubs played in the German Gauliga Sudetenland and, from 1943 onward, also in the Gauliga Böhmen und Mähren. In the Slovak Republic an independent Slovak league, the Slovenská liga, had been established in 1939 and played out its own championship which was won by ŠK Bratislava in the 1943–44 season. A national Czechoslovak championship was not played between 1939 and 1945. For the 1943–44 season Polaban Nymburk, FK Viktoria Žižkov, SK Slezská Ostrava and SK Plzeň had been newly promoted to the league. 1943–44 Národní liga The 1943–44 Národní liga (English: "National league") was the fifth season of the Národní
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP] not played between 1939 and 1945. For the 1942–43 season OAP Bratislava and HG Šimonovany had been newly promoted to the league. 1942–43 Slovenská liga The 1942–43 Slovenská liga (English:"Slovak league") was the fifth season of the Slovenská liga, the first tier of league football in the Slovak Republic, formerly part of Czechoslovakia until the German occupation of the country in March 1939. In the Slovak Republic an independent Slovak league had been established in 1939 and played out its own championship which was won by OAP Bratislava in 1942–43. In the German-annexed Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia a separate
What sport does 1989–90 1. Slovenská národná hokejová liga season play? [SEP] clubs played in the German Gauliga Sudetenland. In the Slovak Republic an independent Slovak league, the Slovenská liga, had been established in 1939 and played out its own championship which was won by ŠK Bratislava in the 1939–40 season. A national Czechoslovak championship was not played between 1939 and 1945. For the 1939–40 season FC Viktoria Plzeň and SK Prostějov had been newly promoted to the league. 1939–40 Národní liga The 1939–40 Národní liga (English: "National league") was the first season of the Národní liga, the first tier of league football in the Nazi Germany-annexed Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP]  The following article presents a summary of the 1923 football (soccer) season in Brazil, which was the 22nd season of competitive football in the country.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP]  The Brazil national football team did not play any matches in 1924.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP]  The following table lists all the games played by the Brazil national football team in official competitions and friendly matches during 1923.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP]  The following article presents a summary of the 1924 football (soccer) season in Brazil, which was the 23rd season of competitive football in the country.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP]  The following table lists all the games played by the Brazil national football team in official competitions and friendly matches during 1922.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP] Wembley Stadium (1923)  The original Wembley Stadium (; originally known as the Empire Stadium) was a stadium in Wembley, London, best known for hosting important football matches. It stood on the same site now occupied by its successor.  Wembley hosted the FA Cup final annually, the first in 1923, which was the stadium's inaugural event, the League Cup final annually, five European Cup finals, the 1966 World Cup Final, and the final of Euro 1996. Brazilian footballer Pelé once said of the stadium: "Wembley is the cathedral of football. It is the capital of football and it is the heart of football", in recognition of its status as the world's best-known football stadium.  The stadium also hosted many other sports events, including the 1948 Summer Olympics, rugby league's Challenge Cup final, and the 1992 and 1995 Rugby League World Cup Finals. It was also the venue for numerous music events, including the 1985 Live Aid charity concert. In what was the first major WWF (now WWE) pay-per-view to take place outside North America, it hosted the 1992 SummerSlam.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP] Nena (footballer, born 1923)  Olavo Rodrigues Barbosa, best known as Nena, (11 July 1923 – 17 November 2010) was a Brazilian former football player. He was born in Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul.  From 1940 to 1949 the defender played with SC Internacional in Porto Alegre and won with the club eight state championships. In 1949 he moved to Associação Portuguesa de Desportos in São Paulo with which he won the Torneio Rio – São Paulo of 1952 and 1955. He ended his playing career with the club in 1958 but stayed on as auxiliary coach and functionary. In the 1960s he worked as youth coach with SC Corinthians Paulista.  Between 1947 and 1952 he played five times for the Brazilian national team. He was also part of the Brazilian roster of the 1950 World Cup where Brazil finished as runner up, but did not get to play.  In 2003, he moved with his wife to Goiânia, capital of the state Goiás in the interior of Brazil. There the father of five children died in 2010 from lung cancer.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP] 1924 in Brazilian football  The following article presents a summary of the 1924 football (soccer) season in Brazil, which was the 23rd season of competitive football in the country.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP] Brazil national football team  The Brazil national football team (), nicknamed "Seleção Canarinho" (‘Canary Squad’, after their bright yellow jersey), represents Brazil in men's international football and is administered by the Brazilian Football Confederation (CBF), the governing body for football in Brazil. They have been a member of FIFA since 1923 and a member of CONMEBOL since 1916.  Brazil is the most successful national team in the FIFA World Cup, being crowned winner five times: 1958, 1962, 1970, 1994 and 2002. The "Seleção" also has the best overall performance in the World Cup competition, both in proportional and absolute terms, with a record of 76 victories in 114 matches played, 129 goal difference, 247 points, and 19 losses. It is the only national team to have played in all World Cup editions without any absence nor need for playoffs, and the only team to have won the World Cup in four different continents: once in Europe (1958 Sweden), once in South America (1962 Chile), twice in North America (1970 Mexico and 1994 United States), and once in Asia (2002 South Korea/Japan). Brazil is also the most successful team in the now-defunct FIFA Confederations Cup, winning it four times, in 1997, 2005, 2009, and 2013.  In ranking standings, Brazil have the highest average football Elo rating, and the fourth all-time peak football Elo rating, established in 1962. In FIFA's ranking system Brazil holds the record for most Team of the Year first ranking wins with 13. Many commentators, experts, and former players have considered the Brazil team of 1970 to be the greatest team of all time. Other Brazilian teams are also highly estimated and regularly appear listed among the best teams of all time, such as the Brazil teams of 1958–62 and the squads of the 1994–02 period, with honorary mentions for the gifted 1982 side. In 1996, the Brazilian national team achieved 35 consecutive matches undefeated, a feat which they held as a world record for 25 years.  Brazil has developed many rivalries through the years, with the most notable ones being with Argentina—known as the "Superclássico das Américas" in Portuguese, Italy—known as the "Clássico Mundial" in Portuguese or the "World Derby" in English, Uruguay due to the traumatic Maracanazo, and the Netherlands due to several important meetings between the two teams at several World Cups.
What sport does 1923 in Brazilian football play? [SEP] Mica (footballer, born 1904)  Alfredo Pereira de Mello, commonly known as Mica, (15 October 1904 – 10 March 1989) was a Brazilian football player who played as a midfielder. Mica is considered one of the best players that the baiano football ever produced and one of its first heroes. He also was a member of the Brazilian squad at the 1923 Copa America.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP]  Ye Zhibin (born October 3, 1971) is a Chinese assistant coach and a former professional football player. As a player, he spent his career playing for Guangzhou Songri and Guangzhou Apollo before moving into management where he spent several years with Guangzhou Pharmaceutical in numerous coaching positions before moving on to become an assistant coach at Guangdong Sunray Cave.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP]  Ye Zhibin would play for his local second tier football club Guangzhou Songri and was part of the squad that won promotion to the top tier at the end of the 1995 league season when the club came second within the division. His time in the top tier was short lived and by the end of the 1996 league season the club finished bottom of the league and received subsequent relegation at the end of the season. When the club were unable to win immediate promotion back into the top tier the following season, Ye Zhibin was allowed to leave to join local rivals and
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP]  tier club Guangzhou Apollo at the beginning of the 1998 league season. In his short time at the club Ye quickly gained a reputation as tough tackling midfielder when on May 10, 1998 in a game against Shanghai Shenhua, Ye would fracture of the left leg of Claudio Lucio de Camargo, Moura and end the players career within China. By the end of the 1998 league season Guangzhou Apollo would finish bottom of the league and were relegated to the second tier. Li would remain faithful to the club and stayed with them until he retired at the end of the 2003 league season.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP]  Yevgeniy Zhilyayev (born 13 July 1973 in Almaty) is a Kazakhstani water polo player. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the Kazakhstan men's national water polo team in the men's event, but he has won no Olympic honor. He is 6 ft 3 inches tall.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP]  Yeh Ting-jen (born July 1, 1983 in Taiwan) is a Taiwanese baseball player who currently plays for Brother Elephants of Chinese Professional Baseball League. He is a pitcher who throws and bats left-handed. He is 6'1" and weighs 189 lbs. He pitched for the Lowell Spinners minor league team in the New York Penn league in 2006, playing in 9 games, with a record of 1-0 and an Earned run average of 9.53 and batted .400 as well. The Lowell Spinners are a minor-league affiliate of the Boston Red Sox.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP] Ye Zhibin  Ye Zhibin (; born October 3, 1971) is a Chinese assistant coach and a former professional football player. As a player, he spent his career playing for Guangzhou Songri and Guangzhou Apollo before moving into management where he spent several years with Guangzhou Pharmaceutical in numerous coaching positions before moving on to become an assistant coach at Guangdong Sunray Cave.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP] Li Zhihai  Li Zhihai (; Pinyin: Li Zhìhǎi; born August 2, 1982) is a former Chinese footballer .
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP] Tan Ende  Tan Ende (; born August 21, 1971) is a retired Chinese football player. He is currently a coach.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP] 2008 Guangzhou Pharmaceutical F.C. season  The 2008 season was Guangzhou FC's first season in the Chinese Super League. This article shows statistics of the club's players in the season, and also lists all matches that the club played in the 2008 season.
What sport does Ye Zhibin play? [SEP] Ye (surname)  Ye () is a Chinese-language surname. It is listed 257th in the Song dynasty classic text "Hundred Family Surnames", and is the 43rd most common surname in China, with a population of 5.8 million as of 2008 and 2019. Ye is usually romanized as "Yeh" in Taiwan based on Wade-Giles; "Yip", "Ip", and "Jip" in Cantonese; "Iap", "Yap", "Yapp", "Yiapp" and "Yeap" in Hakka and Hokkien.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP]  Matteo Pivotto (born September 5, 1974 in Montecchio Maggiore) is an Italian professional football player. He spent 6 seasons (70 games, 2 goals) in the Serie A for A.S. Roma, U.S. Lecce and Modena F.C.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP]  Matteo Mazzantini (born Livorno, 24 October 1976) is an Italian rugby union footballer. His position in the field is as a scrum-half. He played for Benetton Treviso (1996–2002), Rugby Rovigo (2002–2003), Arix Viadana (2003–2006) and SKG Gran Parma (2006- current). Mazzantini had his first cap for Italy at 5 February 2000, in a 34-20 win over Scotland. He played at the Six Nations in 2001, 2002 and 2003. He was capped twice at the 2003 Rugby World Cup finals. He was awarded nine caps for his national team. Mazzantini is married with Elisa Facchini, a veterinary surgeon who also plays as wing for Italy women's national rugby union team and the Red Panthers, Benetton Treviso's female team.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP]  Matteo Panunzi (Rome, 12 May 1997) is an Italian rugby union player. His usual position is as a Scrum-Half and he currently plays for Petrarca Padova in Top12. For 2015–16 Pro12 season, he named like Permit Player for Zebre. In 2016 and 2017, Panunzi was named in the Italy Under 20 squad.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP]  Matteo Barbini (born 8 June 1982 in Venice) is an Italian rugby union player. His usual position is in the centres. He plays for English National Division One club Esher RFC, although is yet to represent them in the league due to a long-standing injury suffered pre-season. He has previously played for Italian club Benetton Treviso, and been capped for the national team, and was a part of their squad at the 2003 Rugby World Cup in Australia. Barbini represented Italy at the under-21 Six Nations competition during 2002, and had subsequently moved up into the senior national side by the following summer for the Test matches in New
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP]  He was internationally selected at the age of 16 for the Italian national under-17 team, and played for the Italian national under-23 team at the 1997 Mediterranean Games, where Italy were champions.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP] Derby della Scala  The Derby della Scala, also known as Derby dell'Arena or the Verona Derby in English and Derby di Verona in Italian, is the name given to any association football match contested between ChievoVerona and Hellas Verona. Its venue is at the Stadio Marc'Antonio Bentegodi. The name refers to the Scaligeri or della Scala aristocratic family, who were rulers of Verona during the Middle Ages and early Renaissance.  The city of Verona became so the 5th city in Italy, after Milan, Rome, Turin and Genoa to host a derby in Serie A. All five derbies were contested in the 2013–14 season and have been repeated in three later campaigns to date (2014–15, 2015–16, 2017–18).
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP] List of Italian football transfers summer 2007  This is a list of Italian football transfers for the 2007–08 season. Only moves from Serie A and Serie B are listed.  The summer transfer window ran from the end of the 2006–07 season, with a few transfers taking place prior to the season's complete end. The window closed on 31 August. The mid-season transfer window opened on 1 January 2008, and ran for the entire month, until 31 January. Players without a club may join one, either during or in between transfer windows.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP] Italian national track relay team  The Italy national relays team at the international athletics championships refer to the results of the Italian athletics team (in this page only at senior level), in the races of 4 x 100 metres relay and 4 x 400 metres relay at the International athletics competitions such as Olympic Games, World Championships, European Championships, Summer Universiade, Mediterranean Games, World Military Games and European Athletics Team Championships.
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP] Italian teammates won bronze of World League held in Florence, Italy. Matteo Piano Matteo Piano (born 24 October 1990) is an Italian volleyball player, a member of Italy men's national volleyball team and Revivre Milano. Matteo Piano has a standing reach of 278 cm. He was silver medalist at the 2016 Olympics and the 2015 World Cup, silver medalist at the European Championship 2013, and bronze medalist of the World League (2013, 2014). He debuted with the Italy men's national volleyball team in 2013. In 2013 Italy, including Piano, won bronze medal of World League. In the same year he
What sport does Matteo Pivotto play? [SEP] Matteo Pratichetti Matteo Pratichetti (born 27 July 1985 in Rome) is a former Italian rugby union player. Pratichetti's father, Oreste, was a rugby player and coach, his uncle Carlo was capped several times for Italy in the 1980s, and his brother Andrea was his teammate at Calvisano for the 2008–09 season. Since his adolescence, Pratichetti played in the UR Capitolina's (one of the several Roman rugby union teams) youth squad; in 2004, at 19, he moved to Calvisano in the Super 10 and won the Italian Championship at the end of his debut season with his new club. His first
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]  Winis Imbi (born 26 April 1979 in Papua New Guinea) is an Australian rules footballer. He is 172cm in height. Imbi was named in the 1997 TAC Cup team of the year before training with Essendon in 1998. In 1999, Imbi was promoted to the Essendon rookie list and played some promising games in the Bomber's Ansett Cup finals campaign. That year he won the Essendon Football Club reserves best and fairest. At the end of the season, he was delisted and added to the Kangaroos Football Club's rookie list where he lasted until the end of the year. Imbi holds the North Ballarat Rebels games record with 53 games. He played football in Aberfeldie, Victoria in 2002. He continues to play football semi-professionally for the Portland Football Club in the Western Border Football League, where he was joint winner of the league's best and fairest in 2003. His younger brother, James Imbi, began at the Portland Football Club before trying out with the Sturt Football Club in the South Australian National Football League in 2004, after which he went to the Palmerston Football Club in the Northern Territory Football League in 2006.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]  According to the New Times, a Rwandese daily, Mukobwanakawe was introduced to sitting volleyball, a sport in the Paralympic Games, in 2007, and was recruited by a team called Imena. She left Imena a year later and joined the Nyarugenge-based Troupe Handicapee Tuzuzanye (THT) Club where she also played for one year before crossing to Intwari in Kicukiro where she was appointed captain and later the club vice president, roles she holds to date. She has since gone ahead to represent her country at the 2016 Intercontinental and World ParaVolley Championship was held between March 17-23 in Hangzhou City, China.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]  HoopWorld is an action sports basketball game in arcade style where two teams fight each other in order to defend their home courts. The point of the game is to get the highest score possible before match time runs out. The player runs, fights, kicks, steals the ball from opponents, and performs dunks and ball passes to win the match. Mystery Boxes will appear randomly on the court during the match revealing one of eight power-ups that impact game play. The game comes with three game modes (Quick Match, Tournament, and Survival) and has four difficulty levels (easy, normal, difficulty, and crazy) that enable the player to unlock teams and courts when played in Tournament mode. HoopWorld is an offline multiplayer game that can be played with 1-2 players. There is also an online leader board allowing players to upload their accumulated scores generated in Tournament mode. There are six available courts that are set in nature and outdoor locations, such as a jungle, a volcano, a Caribbean island, a Greek village, a desert, and a mystical forest. Each court is defended by its respective team that the player can pick from.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]  Imed Mhedhebi or Mhadhbi (عماد المهذبى) (born 22 March 1976 in Tunis) is a former Tunisian football winger. He was a member of the Tunisian national team that participated at the 2002 FIFA World Cup and won the 2004 African Cup of Nations. On January 27, 2007 he played his first Ligue 1 match for Nantes against Lorient
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]  Shortly after Ezeli arrived in Yuba City, his uncle encouraged him to take up what seemed to be the most appropriate sport for a 6'8" (2.03 m) teenager—basketball. This proved much more difficult for him than academics; although he had played soccer as a child, he had never played any organized sports. He took a year of classes at Jesuit High School in Sacramento, but did not play basketball; different sources report that he was either ineligible to play because he had graduated from high school in Nigeria or cut during tryouts. The start of his organized basketball career, with a low-level AAU team, was especially inauspicious; his first points were scored in his own team's basket.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP] Joel Embiid  Joel Hans Embiid ( ; born 16 March 1994) is a Cameroonian professional basketball player for the Philadelphia 76ers of the National Basketball Association (NBA), who also holds French and American citizenship. After one year of college basketball with the Kansas Jayhawks, he was drafted third overall by the 76ers in the 2014 NBA draft. Multiple foot and knee injuries delayed his debut for two seasons until 2016–17, when he was named to the NBA All-Rookie First Team despite playing only 31 games. Embiid is a five-time NBA All-Star, a four-time member of the All-NBA Team and a three-time member of the All-Defensive Team. He has nicknamed himself "the Process" in response to a refrain from 76ers fans during the Sam Hinkie era to "trust the process". Embiid led the NBA in scoring during the 2021–22 season, becoming the first center and seven footer since Shaquille O'Neal (2000), and was also the first center since Moses Malone (1982) to average over 30 points per game, while also being the first foreign player to lead the NBA in scoring.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP] Game of the Century (college basketball)  In men's college basketball, the Game of the Century was a historic National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) game between the Houston Cougars and the UCLA Bruins played on January 20, 1968, at the Astrodome in Houston, Texas. It was the first NCAA regular season game broadcast nationwide in prime time. It established college basketball as a sports commodity on television and paved the way for the modern "March Madness" television coverage.
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP]
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP] in late Edo period Japan also were known to play the game. In English the sport is known by several names, "hoop and stick," "bowling hoops," or "gird and cleek" in Scotland, where the gird is the hoop and the cleek, the stick. In the west, around the end of the 19th century, the game was played by boys up to about twelve years of age. Hoops would at times have pairs of tin squares nailed to the inside of the circle, to jingle as the hoop was rolled. Up to a dozen such pairs of rattles might be placed
What sport does Imbi Hoop play? [SEP] fights, kicks, steals the ball from opponents, and performs dunks and ball passes to win the match. Mystery Boxes will appear randomly on the court during the match revealing one of eight power-ups that impact game play. The game comes with three game modes (Quick Match, Tournament, and Survival) and has four difficulty levels (easy, normal, difficulty, and crazy) that enable the player to unlock teams and courts when played in Tournament mode. HoopWorld is an offline multiplayer game that can be played with 1-2 players. There is also an online leader board allowing players to upload their accumulated scores
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP]  Gerd Schwidrowski (born 19 September 1947 in Rendsburg) is a former professional German footballer. Schwidrowski made a total of 9 appearances in the Fußball-Bundesliga for Tennis Borussia Berlin during his playing career.
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP]  Truntschka played for Kölner Haie and DEG Metro Stars. He played for West Germany 1984 Canada Cup as well as three Winter Olympics. He competed for the West German national team at the 1980 Winter Olympics and also played for the German national team at the 1992 Winter Olympics.
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] Adolf Lesser (1851–1926) a German physician who specialized in forensic medicine ; Michael F. Blenski (1862–1932), Wisconsin politician ; Adolf Wallenberg (1862–1949) a German internist and neurologist ; John S. Flizikowski, (1868–1934) a Chicago architect ; Ferdinand Noeldechen (1895–1951), general ; Theo Mackeben (1897–1953) a German pianist, conductor and composer, particularly of film music ; Kazimierz Kropidłowski (1931–1998) a Polish long jumper, competed at the 1956 Summer Olympics ; Henryk Jankowski (1936-2010) a Polish Roman Catholic priest and Member of Solidarity movement ; Kazimierz Deyna (1947–1989), soccer player, over 600 pro games and 97 for Poland ; Władysław Wojtakajtis (1949–2016) a Polish swimmer, competed at the 1968 and 1972 Summer Olympics ; Andrzej Grubba (1958–2005) a Polish table tennis player ; Maria Kamrowska (born 1966) a retired Polish heptathlete. ; Paweł Papke (born 1977) a former Polish volleyball player ; Piotr Wiśniewski (born 1982) a Polish footballer, who played 230 games for Lechia Gdańsk ; Oktawia Nowacka (born 1991) a Polish modern pentathlete and bronze medalist in the 2016 Summer Olympics
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP]  Schwidrowski (born 1947), German footballer ; Gerd Siegmund (born 1973), German ski jumper ; Gerd Springer (1927–1999), Austrian footballer and coach ; Gerd Tacke (1906–1997), German businessman ; Gerd Theissen (born 1943), German theologian ; Gerd Türk, German tenor ; Gerd Völs (1909–1991), German rower ; Gerd vom Bruch (born 1941), German football player and coach ; Gerd von Rundstedt (1875–1953), German military officer ; Gerd Wessig (born 1959), East German high jumper ; Gerd Zimmermann (disambiguation) ; Gerd Zimmermann (footballer) (born 1949), German football player ; Gerd Zimmermann (speed skater) (born 1942), German speed skater ; Gerd-Volker Schock (born 1950), German football player and coach
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP]  and close friend Wawrinka to perform the duty at the opening ceremony instead. Along with Federer, three other Swiss athletes made their fourth Olympic appearance: marathon runner Viktor Röthlin, Star sailor Flavio Marazzi, and quadruple sculls rower André Vonarburg. Equestrian show jumper Pius Schwizer, at age 49, was the oldest athlete of the team, while all-around gymnast Giulia Steingruber was the youngest at age 18. Other notable Swiss athletes featured mountain biker and bronze medalist Nino Schurter, freestyle swimmer and six-time national record holder Dominik Meichtry, triathletes Sven Riederer and Nicola Spirig, and equestrian show jumper Steve Guerdat, who led his team by winning the bronze medal in Beijing. The following is the list of number of competitors participating in the Games. Note that reserves in fencing, field hockey, football, and handball are not counted as athletes:
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] Soccer League with the Sockers. He won four championships, all indoors, with the Sockers. Gert Wieczorkowski Gert Wieczorkowski is a retired German footballer who played professionally in Germany and the United States including the North American Soccer League and Major Indoor Soccer League. In 1971, Wieczorkowski joined FC St. Pauli in the second division Regionalliga Nord. In 1974, he moved to Rot-Weiss Essen which played at the time in the Bundesliga. In 1979, Wieczorkowski moved to the United States and signed with the San Diego Sockers of the North American Soccer League. Over the next six years, Wieczorkowski played five
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] Marek Ostrowski Marek Ostrowski (22 November 1959 in Skrwilno – 6 March 2017 in Stockerau, Austria) was a Polish footballer (defender) playing for Poland national football team in 1986 FIFA World Cup. He is one of the most notable players of Pogoń Szczecin during his era in the club, as he played 222 games for the club, scoring 30 goals. Ostrowski made his debut for Poland in a January 1981 friendly match against Japan and earned a total of 37 caps, scoring 1 goal. His final international was an October 1987 friendly match against Czechoslovakia. He was hospitalized in January
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] 1952. After his playing career he served as a translator for the Polish delegation at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo. Michał Antuszewicz Michał Antuszewicz (1 October 1909 — 10 March 1993), was a Polish ice hockey player. He played for Włókniarz Zgierz and Legia Warsaw in Poland, as well as clubs in Manchuria. Antuszewicz also played for the Polish national team the 1952 Winter Olympics. Born in Harbin, China, his father, Romuald, worked for a Russian railway, moving to the region in the wake of the Russo-Japanese War. His mother, Agata, was an economist and translator. Antuszewicz played for
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] (late 1950s and early 1960s). Also, he played for the Polish National Team scoring one goal in 7 games. His debut took place on June 23, 1957 in Chorzów, when Poland beat Soviet Union 2-1. Ginter Gawlik Ginter Gawlik (born December 5, 1930 in Borsigwerk, a district of Zabrze, died August 22, 2005 in Würzburg, Germany) was a Polish soccer player, defender and midfielder. He spent most of career playing for Polish team Górnik Zabrze. Gawlik, who was not raised in Poland (until 1945, Zabrze, then called Hindenburg, belonged to Germany), started his career in the mid-1940s for the German
What sport does Gerd Schwidrowski play? [SEP] until 1955, including the 1952 Winter Olympics and three World Championships. Mieczysław Kasprzycki Mieczysław Kasprzycki (13 December 1910 – 21 October 2001) was a Polish ice hockey player. He played for HC Vítkovice, Slavia Praha, AZS Katowice, Dąb Katowice, Cracovia, and KTH Krynica during his career. Born in Ostrava, in what is now the Czech Republic, Kasprzycki first played hockey there and moved to Poland in 1935. He won the Polish league title five times in his career. Jasiński also played for the Polish national team at the 1936 and 1948 Winter Olympics, and two World Championships: in 1939 and
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]  The 2014 Powiat Poznański Open was a professional tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts. It was the first edition of the tournament which was part of the 2014 ITF Women's Circuit, offering a total of $50,000 in prize money. It took place in Sobota, Greater Poland Voivodeship, Poland, on 21–27 July 2014.
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP] 1 Rankings as of 14 July 2014
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]  The 2014 Poznań Open was a professional tennis tournament played on clay courts. It was the eleventh edition of the tournament which was part of the 2014 ATP Challenger Tour. It took place at the Park Tenisowy Olimpia in Poznań, Poland from 12 to 20 July 2014, including the qualifying competition in the first two days.
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]  Chorzów 4-2 (att. 12 000), in Łódź, ŁKS Łódź ties 0–0 with Warta Poznań, and in Warsaw, Polonia Warszawa ties 2–2 with Cracovia (att. 5000), ; August 29. In an international lawn tennis game in Žilina, Czechoslovakia ties 3–3 with Poland. In games of the Ekstraklasa, ŁKS Łódź ties with Warta Poznań 0-0, Ruch Chorzów beats at home AKS Chorzów 4-2 (att. 15 000), Pogoń Lwów beats Warszawianka Warszawa 3-0 (att. 3500), Wisła Kraków beats Śmigły Wilno 4–1, and Cracovia ties with Polonia Warszawa 2-2. In qualifiers to the Ekstraklasa, Garbarnia Kraków beats at home Union Touring Łódź 2–1, and in Luck, local team PKS loses to Śląsk Świętochłowice 1-4 (att. 3000),
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]  The Poznań Open is a professional tennis tournament played on outdoor red clay courts. It is currently part of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) Challenger Tour. It has been held annually at the Park Tenisowy Olimpia in Poznań, Poland, since 2004. The tournament is regarded as a continuation of Polish Open, which was held in Poznań for nine consecutive years between 1992 and 2000. The current champions are Bernabé Zapata Miralles in singles and Zdeněk Kolář with Jiří Lehečka in doubles event.
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP] WSG Open  The WSG Open is a tournament for professional female tennis players played on outdoor clay courts. The event is classified as a $60,000 ITF Women's Circuit tournament and has been held in Warsaw, Poland, since 2017.   The Powiat Poznański Open was classified as a $75,000 tournament and held in Sobota, Poland, on outdoor clay courts from 2014 to 2015.  The Salwator Cup was classified as a $100,000+H tournament and held in Kraków, Poland, on indoor hardcourts in 2008.
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP] Sesil Karatantcheva  Sesil Radoslavova Karatantcheva (; born 8 August 1989) is a Bulgarian former tennis player.  In her career, she won nine singles titles on the ITF Women's Circuit. On 7 November 2005, she reached her best singles ranking of world No. 35. On 19 April 2010, she peaked at No. 154 in the doubles rankings.  Karatantcheva is perhaps best known for reaching the quarterfinals of the 2005 French Open, upsetting seven-time Grand Slam champion Venus Williams en route. The same year, she twice tested positive for nandrolone and was therefore issued a two-year suspension. She returned to professional competition in January 2008.
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]
What sport does 2014 Powiat Poznański Open play? [SEP]
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  The 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament was the 1997 postseason baseball championship of the NCAA Division I Conference USA, held at Turchin Stadium in New Orleans, Louisiana from May 13–18. defeated in the championship game, earning the conference's automatic bid to the 1997 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. With the completion of Houston's move from the Southwest Conference, the conference expanded to 10 teams in baseball. As a result, the tournament's play-in round was expanded to include the 7th–10th seeds, instead of only the 8th and 9th.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  Two play-in games among the four teams with the worst regular season records decided which two teams would have the final two spots in the eight-team double-elimination bracket.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  The 1996 Conference USA Baseball Tournament was the 1996 postseason college baseball championship of the NCAA Division I Conference USA, held at Pete Taylor Park in Hattiesburg, Mississippi from May 14&ndash;19. won the tournament and received Conference USA's automatic bid to the 1996 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. The tournament consisted of nine teams with a play-in game, two double-elimination brackets, and a single-game final.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Records reflect conference play only.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  Two play-in games among the four teams with the worst regular season records decided which two teams would have the final two spots in the eight-team double-elimination bracket.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Conference USA baseball tournament  The Conference USA baseball tournament is the conference championship tournament in baseball for Conference USA (C-USA). The winner of the tournament receives an automatic bid to the NCAA Division I baseball tournament. The tournament format, which has changed several times, currently consists of an eight-team double-elimination tournament format, in which the winners of two four-team brackets play in a single-game final. Rice, which has won the tournament seven times, is the most successful team in the tournament's history.<ref name=guide />
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Conference USA  Conference USA (C-USA or CUSA) is an intercollegiate athletic conference whose current member institutions are located within the Southern United States. The conference participates in the NCAA's Division I in all sports. C-USA's offices are located in Dallas, Texas.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Rice Owls baseball  The Rice Owls baseball team is the interscholastic baseball team representing Rice University in Houston, Texas, United States. The Owls have appeared often in the NCAA Tournament since the tenure of head coach Wayne Graham began in 1992. The program participated in every tournament from 1995 until 2017, and won the national championship in 2003, the first national championship for Rice athletics in any team sport.  Rice is a member of the NCAA Division I Conference USA. Previously, it has played in the now-defunct Southwest Conference and in the Western Athletic Conference. From 1997–2008, Rice won 12 consecutive regular season titles in its conference or division. Nine of the championships came in the Western Athletic Conference, while the final three came in Conference USA. The streak ended in 2009 when East Carolina won the regular-season conference title; however, Rice won the post-season tournament. Rice subsequently won the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013 regular-season C-USA titles.  Rice plays its home games at Reckling Park on the Rice campus in Houston. Rice is also a yearly participant in the Houston College Classic, held since 2001 at the Houston Astros' Minute Maid Park.
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]
What sport does 1997 Conference USA Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] 1997 NCAA Division I baseball season  The 1997 NCAA Division I baseball season, play of college baseball in the United States organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) began in the spring of 1997. The season progressed through the regular season and concluded with the 1997 College World Series. The College World Series, held for the fifty first time in 1997, consisted of one team from each of eight regional competitions and was held in Omaha, Nebraska, at Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium as a double-elimination tournament. LSU claimed the championship for the fourth time.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP]  He played in the Russian Football National League for FC Sodovik Sterlitamak in 2007.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP]  Vasili Nikolayevich Penyasov (Василий Николаевич Пенясов; born 27 July 1987) is a former Russian professional football player.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP]  While at school, he attended the basketball, hockey, football, sambo and track and field sections. Ilyasov began his career for Strela Kazan, as a student at the Kazan Aviation Institute. He played for the Strela and Lokomotiv rugby league teams, from 1995 to 2001 he became the champion of the country five times in a row. In 1996, he played at the Student World Cup for the Russian national team, where he was voted the Player of the Tournament. He was offered to go to play abroad in the English clubs London Broncos and Warrington Wolves, but he refused first due to injury, and then for personal reasons. For the Russian national side in 2000, Ilyasov played at the World Cup and was noted for an try in the match against Fiji. He is married to Oksana, and their daughters are Karina and Sofia. He refused to go to England, because he did not want to leave Oksana alone.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP]  Pavel Alexandrovich Iliashenko (Павел Александрович Ильяшенко; born 23 June 1990 in Ufa, Russia) is a modern pentathlete from Kazakhstan. He competed at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, where he finished twenty-ninth in the men's event, with a score of 5,432 points. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, he finished in 35th place. Iliashenko also won a silver medal at the 2011 UIPM Junior World Championships in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He competed in the men's individual event at the 2018 Asian Games held in Jakarta, Indonesia. He represented Kazakhstan at the 2020 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP]  Nikolay spent the 2012/2013 season in the Polish club Effector Kielce. In 2013, he moved to Asseco Resovia and signed two–year contract. In his first season in the new club he won the Polish SuperCup and a silver medal of the Polish Championship after losing to PGE Skra Bełchatów in the final matches. In April 2015, alongside Asseco Resovia he won the Polish Championship. In April 2015, he signed a new one–year contract with Resovia. In May 2016, Penchev signed a one–year contract with another top Polish club PGE Skra Bełchatów.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP] 1987 in association football  The following are the football (soccer) events of the year 1987 throughout the world.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP] Dimitar Penev Dimitar Dushkov Penev (, born 12 July 1945) is a Bulgarian football coach and former player and central defender of CSKA Sofia. He played 90 games for Bulgaria national football team and scored 2 goals. He is regarded as one of his country's best ever defenders, winning Bulgarian footballer of the year in 1967 and 1971, he also participated in 3 world cups for his country in 1966, 1970 and 1974. He is currently the Honorary President of CSKA Sofia and semi-pro side Nottingham United FC. Penev is uncle of former Bulgarian international and national team coach Lyuboslav
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP] Aleksey Rastvortsev Aleksey Petrovich Rastvortsev (; born August 8, 1978) is a Russian handball player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics (bronze winner) and in the 2008 Summer Olympics. He played for the Russian National Handball Team 251 match and scored over 900 goals. In his career he played for HC Neva (St. Peterburg), HC Energija (Voronez), HC Chekhovskie Medvedi (Chekhov, Moskovskaja oblast), HC Vardar (Skopje) and RK Vojvodina ( Novi Sad). He finished his active sports career in 2016 and since then he is deputy sport director in HC Vardar; they won the EHF Champions League in 2017.
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP] the junior and senior levels, capturing three medals (gold, silver and bronze) at the World Junior Championships and a silver medal at the World Championships. Lyashenko committed suicide while on vacation with his family on July 5, 2003. Lyashenko spent three seasons playing with Yaroslavl Torpedo in his home country of Russia. In 130 games, he recorded 22 goals and 22 assists for 44 points. While playing with Yaroslavl, he was selected in the second round (52nd overall) of the 1997 NHL Entry Draft by the Dallas Stars. Leading up to the draft, scouts described him as a defensive forward
What sport does Vasili Penyasov play? [SEP] Winter Olympics and finished 56th in the sprint, 60th in the pursuit, 71st in the individual and was part of the lapped relay. Anton Sinapov Anton Sinapov () (born 1 September 1993) is a Bulgarian biathlete, who started his career as a cross-country skier. Sinapov participated at the 2011 Nordic World Ski Championships, where he finished 87th in the sprint. Sinapov competed at the Biathlon World Championships in 2015, 2016 and 2017. His best individual result was the 11th place in the sprint in 2017 and the best relay result the 9th place the same year. In 2016/17 he had
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]  Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Bogomolov Jr. (Александр Александрович «Алекс» Богомолов; born April 23, 1983), nicknamed Bogie, is a Russian-American retired professional tennis player.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]  Bogomolov's father, Alex Sr., was a former Soviet national tennis coach who worked with Larisa Neiland, Yevgeny Kafelnikov, and Andrei Medvedev. Born in Moscow, Russia, the 5' 10" Bogomolov was the no. 1 ranked USTA player for the 18s section in 2000, and had a career-high ranking of world no. 33 on October 31, 2011. In 1998, Bogomolov won the USTA National Boys' 16 Championships, defeating Andy Roddick in the final. He was the first player to be beaten by David Nalbandian in the main draw of a Grand Slam tournament, at the 2001 US Open. In 2005, he was suspended for 1.5 months due to a positive doping
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]  Andrei Kovalenko (Андрій Коваленко; born 6 November 1970 in Kiev) is an Australian water polo player and current coach of the UWA Torpedoes Men's Water Polo team and coach of the u18 and u16 UWA City Beach Bears. He competed for Australia at the 2000 Sydney Olympic Games, as well as for CIS at Barcelona 1992 in which he won a bronze medal and Ukraine at Atlanta 1996. In 2007 he helped Australia attain a bronze medal in the FINA Water Polo World League. In recent years, Andrei has starting playing Men's Softball for the Woodlands Wolves Ball Club. Andrei has started to refine his pitching (underarm), and shown his skills in the outfield with his "Rocket for an Arm". In the off season, Andrei has also started playing Baseball for the Wembley Magpies Baseball Club. Andrei is a reliable pitcher, picking up different variations with ease.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]  Nikolai Bogomolov (born May 30, 1991) is a Russian professional ice hockey defenceman currently playing for PSK Sakhalin of Asia League Ice Hockey. Bogomolov his professional debut with HC Vityaz Podolsk of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) during the 2009–10 season and went on to play 27 games for the team from 2009 to 2013.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]  Aleksandr Pavlovich Bogomoev (Александр Павлович Богомоев; born 17 November 1989) is a Russian freestyle wrestler of Buryat descent, who competed for the men's freestyle 61 kg at the World Wrestling Championships 2014 in Tashkent, Uzbekistan. He was eliminated in the quarterfinal rounds, after being defeated by Cuba's Yowlys Bonne, based on the technical score 0-10. Winner Golden Grand Prix Ivan Yarygin 2015 and two time Russian National Champion (2014, 2015). International Master of Sports in freestyle wrestling. Gold medalist World cup 2011 in Makhachkala, Dagestan, Russia. In World cup 2015 he won silver medal in Los Angeles, California, United States. European Nations' Cup (Moscow Lights) 2014 winner. In 2015 European Games he defeated in the semifinal match 2x World Champion Haji Aliyev and in gold medal match he over Beka Lomtadze of Georgia.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP] Andre Agassi  Andre Kirk Agassi ( ; born April 29, 1970) is an American former world No. 1 tennis player. He is an eight-time major champion and an Olympic gold medalist, as well as a runner-up in seven other majors.  Agassi is the second of five men to achieve the career Grand Slam in the Open Era and the fifth of eight overall to make the achievement. He is also the first of two men to achieve the career Golden Slam (career Grand Slam and Olympic gold medal), as well as the only man to win a career Super Slam (career Grand Slam, plus the Olympic gold medal and the year-end championships).<ref name="SI" />  Agassi was the first man to win all four singles majors on three different surfaces (hard, clay and grass), and remains the most recent American man to win the French Open (in 1999) and the Australian Open (in 2003). He also won 17 Masters titles and was part of the winning Davis Cup teams in 1990, 1992 and 1995.<ref> Mehrotra, Abhishek. "Agassi: Last of the great Americans" "ESPN Star". Retrieved July 21, 2012.</ref>  After suffering from sciatica caused by two bulging discs in his back, a spondylolisthesis (vertebral displacement) and a bone spur that interfered with the nerve, Agassi retired from professional tennis on September 3, 2006, after losing in the third round of the US Open. He is the founder of the Andre Agassi Charitable Foundation, which has raised over $60 million for at-risk children in Southern Nevada. In 2001, the Foundation opened the Andre Agassi College Preparatory Academy in Las Vegas, a K–12 public charter school for at-risk children. He has been married to fellow tennis player Steffi Graf since 2001.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP] Alex Bogomolov Jr.  Aleksandr Aleksandrovich Bogomolov Jr. (; born April 23, 1983), nicknamed Bogie, is a Russian-American retired professional tennis player.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP]
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP] Jack Sock  Jack Sock (born September 24, 1992) is an American professional tennis player. He has won four career ATP singles titles and 17 doubles titles, and has career-high rankings of world No. 8 in singles (on 20 November 2017) and world No. 2 in doubles (on 10 September 2018).  Sock has won four major doubles titles: one in mixed doubles at the 2011 US Open partnering Melanie Oudin, and three men's doubles titles at the 2014 Wimbledon Championships partnering Vasek Pospisil, and the 2018 Wimbledon Championships and 2018 US Open partnering Mike Bryan. Sock also won the 2018 ATP Finals men's doubles title partnering Mike Bryan. At the 2016 Rio Olympics, Sock won both a gold medal in mixed doubles partnering Bethanie Mattek-Sands, and a bronze medal in men's doubles partnering Steve Johnson.  In singles, Sock is a former junior US Open champion, victor at the 2017 Paris Masters, and semifinalist at the 2017 ATP Finals.
What sport does Andrei Bogomolov play? [SEP] Aleksandr Nikitin (chess player)  Aleksandr Sergeyevich Nikitin (; 27 January 1935 – 5 June 2022) was a Russian chess player, chess coach, theorist; and Master of Sports of the USSR (1952). He was a coach of the Azerbaijan SSR (1980) and the USSR (1986) teams, and was a coach for Garry Kasparov from 1976 to 1990.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP]  Nanni attended Chestnut Hill Academy high school in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Nanni is a hall of fame member at his school. During his athletics career at Chestnut Hill, Nanni played baseball, basketball, and football. He was captain and the most valuable player for each sport he played. He was an All-City selection in football, an All-Inter-Ac for basketball, and All-City and All-American for baseball. Nanni is considered to be one of Philadelphia's most astonishing athletes of the 1970s. He received countless offers in both Football and Baseball.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP]  .
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP]  Gianluca Nani (born 1 October 1962) is an Italian sporting and football technical director.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP]  Roberto Antonio Nanni (born 20 August 1981) is an Argentine retired football forward.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP] Nando Angelini (1933 - 2020), was an Italian actor. ; Riccardo Bugari (1991), is an Italian speed skater. He competed in the 2018 Winter Olympics. ; Pierluigi Camiscioni (1953 - 2020), was an Italian rugby union player and stuntman. ; Giovanni Carminucci (1939 - 2007), was an Italian gymnast. ; Pasquale Carminucci (1937 - 2015), was an Italian gymnast. He was the brother of Giovanni Carminucci and participated in three editions of the Summer Olympics, 1960, 1964 and 1968. ; Enrica Cipolloni (1990), is an Italian female heptathlete, who won two national championships at individual senior level from 2014 to 2018. ; Maurizio Compagnoni (1963), is an Italian journalist and sports commentator from Sky Sport. ; Remo Croci (1957), is an Italian journalist from Mediaset Italia. ;
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP] Nani (footballer)  Luís Carlos Almeida da Cunha (born 17 November 1986), commonly known as Nani (), is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as a winger for A-League Men club Melbourne Victory. He represented Portugal in international football, playing 112 times for the senior national team.  Nani began his career with Sporting CP, joining the youth team in 2003 before making his first-team debut in 2005. During his two-year tenure in Portugal, Nani won the Portuguese Cup in the 2006–07 season. Before the 2007–08 season, Nani's performances attracted the attention of English club Manchester United, who secured his services in July 2007. He gained first-team status almost immediately and won four Premier League titles and the 2007–08 UEFA Champions League, along with the 2008 FIFA Club World Cup, two League Cups and three Community Shields. Following a loan back to Sporting, in which he won the Portuguese Cup, he was signed by Turkish side Fenerbahçe in 2015, and a year later he signed for Valencia in Spain. He rejoined Sporting in 2018, winning another Portuguese Cup as well as a Portuguese League Cup, before moving to Major League Soccer side Orlando City, whom he captained for three seasons before leaving at the end of 2021. In January 2022, he moved to Venezia in Italy.  Nani made his Portugal international debut in 2006, scoring his first goal in the process; he since established himself as a key member for them. He represented his country at four major tournaments, including three European Championships: he took part at the 2008, 2012 and 2016 European Championships, winning Euro 2016; he also participated at the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He made 112 international appearances and scored 24 goals until his last cap in 2017.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP] Renato Sanches  Renato Júnior Luz Sanches (; born 18 August 1997) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Ligue 1 club Paris Saint-Germain and the Portugal national team.  Sanches began his career at Benfica, making his professional debut for the reserves in October 2014 and for the first team in October 2015. In his first and only season with them, he helped Benfica win the Primeira Liga and Taça da Liga double, being awarded Primeira Liga Breakthrough Player and Golden Boy in the process.  Sanches' performances then attracted German side Bayern Munich, who signed him in July 2016 for an initial €35 million, the highest fee at the time for a Portuguese player playing in the Primeira Liga. His performances fell during his first season with the club, leading him to be loaned to Premier League side Swansea City in August 2017. After remaining as a substitute, following his return to Bayern in 2018, he was signed by French Ligue 1 side Lille in August 2019 for a reported fee of €25 million, becoming Lille's most expensive signing ever. In his second season at the club, he helped the team win the 2020–21 Ligue 1, which ended the club's 10-year league title drought.  Sanches won 40 caps and scored 8 goals for Portugal at youth level. He made his full international debut in March 2016 and was chosen for UEFA Euro 2016 at age 18, making him the youngest Portuguese to play in an international tournament as well as the youngest player to win a UEFA Euro final. He scored one goal during the competition and won the Young Player of the Tournament as Portugal captured the title for the first time in their history.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP]
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP] Ricardo Quaresma  Ricardo Andrade Quaresma Bernardo (; born 26 September 1983) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as a winger.  He began his career at Sporting CP and went on to play for Barcelona, Inter Milan, Porto (twice), Chelsea, Beşiktaş (twice), Al-Ahli Dubai, Kasımpaşa and Vitória de Guimarães. Regarded as a mercurial talent, his tricks, including the "rabona" and "trivela" (a bending shot with the outside of his right foot) made him a popular figure among fans around the world.  A Portugal international for 15 years, Quaresma won 80 caps and played at three European Championships, including the victorious Euro 2016 campaign, and the 2018 World Cup.
What sport does Roberto Nani play? [SEP] Gianluca Nani  Gianluca Nani (born 1 October 1962) is an Italian sporting and football technical director.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]  Dumitru Hubert (born September 3, 1899, death August 27, 1934 in Braşov) is a Romanian bobsledder and aviator who competed in the 1930s. He won two medals in the two-man event at the FIBT World Championships with a gold in 1933 and a bronze in 1934. At the 1932 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York, Hubert finished fourth in the two-man event and sixth in the four-man event.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]  Olimpiu-Dumitru Popescu-Colibași (16 March 1912 – 2 March 1993), nicknamed Tata Pik, was a Romanian handball manager, rugby union player and author of books on sports. He had pioneered handball in the city of Brașov. Popescu-Colibași graduated from the A.N.E.F. in 1937. He helped develop many leading handball players during decades: including Anna Stark, Maria Scheip, Mara Windt, Gerlinde Reip, Edeltraut Franz-Sauer, Iuliana Nako, and Rodica Floroianu. As a rugby player, he won the national championship with TCR. In 1934, Popescu-Colibași and the Romania national rugby team appeared against Italy. He was a starter. Other honours followed his death: he is the namesake of the multi-purpose, 1,700-seat Dumitru Popescu Colibași Sports Hall in Brașov.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]  Victor Alexandru Dumitru (born 28 October 1991, Buzau, Romania) is a Romanian rugby union footballer. His position on the field is scrum-half and currently plays for RC Timişoara. He was formed as a player at the LPS Focsani rugby club and was runner-up in Romania in the Junior National Rugby Championship during his period there.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]  Hubert made his debut in February 2008 in the match against K.V.C. Westerlo. In 2009, he won the Belgian Cup against KV Mechelen. On 19 May 2011 he was called up to the Belgium squad for the European Championship qualifier against Turkey. During the season 2010–2011 he captained the team winning the Jupiler Pro League. In the summer of 2011, after winning the Belgian Supercup, he managed to qualify for the UEFA Champions League after winning against Maccabi Haifa. In January 2013 he joined KAA Gent on a 6 months loan deal after which he signed a 4-years agreement.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]  He was born in Hagieni, a village in Limanu commune, Constanța County. Dumitru mostly played for Farul Constanța, with which he was national champion, until 1989, when he moved to Bulgaria to play for Spartak Varna, winning the championship and the Bulgarian Cup. In 1990, Dumitru moved to France and became player and assistant coach for USA Limoges, which was promoted to the second tier of the French rugby. He retired in 1992, but he still played for an amateur side, Rugby Club Palaisien, which named their stadium after Dumitru. Dumitru debuted for Romania on 14 April 1973, against Spain, in Constanța, during the FIRA Trophy of that year. He contributed to the historical victories against France in 1976 (15–12) and in 1980 (15–0), Wales in 1983 (24–7) and against Scotland in 1984 (28–22). He also captained Romania in the 1979 tour of Wales, earning from the British press the nickname "Captain of the Arms Park". Together with Mircea Paraschiv, he was also player-coach for Romania during the first edition of the Rugby World Cup in 1987, playing two matches in the tournament. His last cap for Romania was against France, on 11 November 1987, in Agen.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP] 1933 in sports  1933 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP] List of Romanian sportspeople
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in equestrian  Equestrian sports are among those contested at the Summer Olympic Games. Equine events began at the Olympics in 1900, when competitions in polo (considered by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) to be a separate sport from the other equestrian events), vaulting, four-in-hand driving, mail coach driving, mixed hacks and hunters and three types of jumping (high jump, long jump and show-jumping) were held. Most of these events were later discontinued, although equestrian events have continued through the 2016 Summer Olympics, and now include team and individual dressage, three-day eventing and show-jumping. Competitors in the modern pentathlon event also have to complete an equestrian show-jumping course, but this is not part of the equestrian events.  Modern-day Olympic equestrian events are rooted in cavalry skills and classical horsemanship, and through 1948, competition was restricted to active-duty officers on military horses. Only after 1952, as mechanization of warfare reduced the number of military riders, were civilian riders allowed to compete. Equestrian is the only Olympic sport in which animals compete with humans, and is one of four sports in which the genders compete against each other, the others being some sailing divisions, mixed doubles division in tennis and the mixed doubles division of badminton. The rules for Olympic equestrian competition are set by the Fédération Équestre Internationale, the international governing body for equestrian sports.<ref name=Beijing/>  In two instances, the equestrian portion of the Olympics has been held in a different location from the rest of the games. The first was during the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Australia when, due to Australian quarantine laws, the equestrian portion was held in Stockholm, Sweden. At the next IOC meeting, it was decided to hold a special Equestrian Olympic Games several months before the actual Olympics, complete with its own opening and closing ceremonies. This meant that Switzerland, which had officially boycotted the 1956 Games because of the Soviet Union's recent invasion of Hungary, still brought home a medal because of its participation in the equestrian portion several months earlier. The second instance was during the 2008 Summer Olympics, when the equestrian events were held in Hong Kong rather than Beijing. This decision was made when, in 2005, international veterinary groups refused to certify the main Olympic city as free of equine diseases. This would have resulted in horses leaving Beijing after the games and having to go through lengthy quarantine processes before being allowed to re-enter their home countries. Hong Kong also had the benefit of having better facilities, including a top equine hospital and one of only a few equine drug-testing labs in the world.  The Summer Olympics have included 2,129 equestrian participants, including 1,751 men and 378 women, from 69 countries.
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP]
What sport does Dumitru Hubert play? [SEP] List of sports venues named after individuals  The following is a list of sports venues named after individuals:
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP]  He played for Edinburgh University.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP]  He played for Edinburgh District in the inter-city match of 1906. He played for the Blues Trial side against the Whites Trial side on 21 January 1911 while still with Edinburgh University.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP]  Adam MacKenzie (born 25 October 1984 in Kirkcaldy) is a male field hockey defender from Scotland, who earned his first cap for the Men's Junior National Team in 2003. He plays club hockey for Inverleith HC. He is the brother-in-law of Na Piarsaigh Junior B City Football champion Brian Buckley.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP]  James Fraser-Mackenzie (born May 17, 1993) is a Zimbabwean rower who competes primarily in the single sculls. Born in Harare, Zimbabwe, Fraser-Mackenzie started his sporting career as a middle-distance runner, and won junior cross-country events until he became more passionate with rowing. He is previously a member of St. George's College Boat Club, and currently trains at the Leander Club in Remenham.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP]  James Alexander Mackenzie (January 15, 1930 – April 28, 1967) was an American football player and coach, the head coach at the University of Oklahoma for one season in 1966.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP] James Fallows  James Mackenzie Fallows (born August 2, 1949) is an American writer and journalist. He is a former national correspondent for "The Atlantic." His work has also appeared in "Slate", "The New York Times Magazine", "The New York Review of Books", "The New Yorker" and "The American Prospect", among others. He is a former editor of "U.S. News & World Report", and as President Jimmy Carter's chief speechwriter for two years was the youngest person ever to hold that job.  Fallows has been a visiting professor at a number of universities in the U.S. and China, and has held the Chair in U.S. Media at the United States Studies Centre at University of Sydney. He is the author of eleven books, including "National Defense" (1981), for which he received the 1983 National Book Award,<ref name=nba1983 /> "Looking at the Sun" (1994), "Breaking the News" (1996), "Blind into Baghdad" (2006), "Postcards from Tomorrow Square" (2009),<ref name=Steketee /> "China Airborne" (2012), and the national best-seller "Our Towns" (2018), which was co-written with his wife, Deborah Fallows, and made into an HBO documentary of the same name in 2021.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP] Jim Mackenzie (American football)  James Alexander Mackenzie (January 15, 1930 – April 28, 1967) was an American football player and coach, the head coach at the University of Oklahoma for one season in 1966.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP] Ewen McKenzie  Ewen James Andrew McKenzie (born 21 June 1965) is an Australian professional rugby union coach and a former international rugby player. He played for Australia's World Cup winning team in 1991 and earned 51 caps for the Wallabies during his test career. McKenzie was head coach of the Australian team from 2013 to 2014. He has coached in both southern and northern hemispheres, in Super Rugby for the Waratahs and Reds, and in France at Top 14 side Stade Français. During his playing days he was a prop and, in a representative career spanning from 1987 to 1997, he played nine seasons for the NSW Waratahs and two for the ACT Brumbies.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP] Jim McKenzie (ice hockey)  James P. McKenzie (born November 3, 1969) is a Canadian ice hockey coach and former player. He is the current head coach of the USHL Muskegon Lumberjacks after being hired midway through the 2011/12 season.  Selected 73rd overall in the 1989 NHL Entry Draft by the Hartford Whalers, McKenzie primarily played as an enforcer throughout his career, which combined with his height at 6 feet 4 inches, earned him the nickname "Big Jim". He also played for the Dallas Stars, Pittsburgh Penguins, Winnipeg Jets/Phoenix Coyotes, Mighty Ducks of Anaheim, Washington Capitals, New Jersey Devils, and Nashville Predators. In his 15 seasons in the National Hockey League, McKenzie played 880 regular season games, scoring 48 goals and 52 assists for 100 points, and collecting 1,739 penalty minutes. He also played in 51 playoff games, scoring no points and collecting 38 penalty minutes, holding the record for most games without a point among forwards in an NHL playoff career. He won the Stanley Cup with New Jersey in 2003.
What sport does James MacKenzie play? [SEP] Jerome Bettis  Jerome Abram Bettis Sr. (born February 16, 1972) is a former American football running back who played in the National Football League (NFL) for 13 seasons, primarily with the Pittsburgh Steelers. Nicknamed "the Bus" for his large size and running style, he was selected 10th overall by the Los Angeles Rams in the 1993 NFL Draft. Bettis was a member of the Rams for three seasons before being traded to the Steelers, where he spent the remainder of his career. A six-time Pro Bowl and two-time first-team All-Pro selection, he is regarded as one of the greatest power runners of all time and ranks eighth in NFL rushing yards. He retired in 2006 after helping the Steelers win a Super Bowl title in Super Bowl XL, the franchise's first in over two decades. Bettis was inducted to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 2015.
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]  A product of Niort's youth football teams, Ott became a professional with the senior side, and made two appearances in the French Ligue 2. In 2010, Ott went on a week-long trial with English League One club Yeovil Town.
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]  Christophe Ott (born 7 April 1983 in Luxeuil-les-Bains) is a retired French footballer who played as a goalkeeper. He is currently the assistant manager of EA Guingamp.
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]  Ott was born in Sattel, Switzerland and raised in Wettingen of Aargau canton. Ott's father, a former amateur of the Swiss third division, inspired him to play association football as a child at six years old. Ott joined Swiss Super League side Grasshoppers as a youth in 2007 and advanced through their junior teams from the under-13s onwards. Meanwhile, aged 9, Ott had begun attending Swiss Beach Soccer youth camps. He was originally tutored by Stephan Meir and Moritz Jaggy, members of the Swiss national team Ott would ultimately play alongside of. He continued to be present at the training camps over the next decade. As a youth, it was clear to Swiss coach Angelo Schirinzi that Ott was a talented beach soccer player.
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]  Noël Robin Ott (born 15 January 1994) is a Swiss beach soccer player who plays as a forward. Known for his pace across the sand and technical abilities in scoring many goals, Ott came to prominence in the sport in 2014, excelling during the European season; he was named best young player in the world that year. He followed this up by claiming the Bronze Ball at the 2015 FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup. Ott has since been described as an "indispensable" part of the Swiss national team and one of the "5 to 10 best players in the world", something that was officially recognised in 2017 as he was named as part of the world team of the year. He is regularly referred to as the "Lionel Messi of beach soccer".
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]  Ott's prospects of becoming a professional footballer were dashed as he was rejected from progressing to Grasshoppers' upper youth teams. Following this rejection, Franziska Steinemann, future coach of the Switzerland women’s team and a friend of Ott's mother, invited him to play with club side Havana Shots Aargau of the Suzuki Swiss National Beach Soccer League. Ott debuted in the National League in 2009, aged 15. Initially, Ott attempted to continue his football career, joining FC Baden of the Swiss fourth tier for a year whilst also playing for Havana Shots; he made rapid progress with the latter. In his second season
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP] Christophe Ott  Christophe Ott (born 7 April 1983 in Luxeuil-les-Bains) is a retired French footballer who played as a goalkeeper. He is currently the assistant manager of EA Guingamp.
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP] Groupe Canal+  Groupe Canal+ is a French mass media company. It is owned and controlled by Vivendi and has a film library in excess of 5,000 films. Vivendi has sold some parts of Canal+ to private investors which are still using the name of Canal+. It is headquartered in Issy-les-Moulineaux, in the suburbs of Paris.  The "Wall Street Journal" described Canal+ as "the French film industry's biggest financial backer, beloved by French cineastes".  It is a major source of finance for domestic film production, participating in the financing of the vast majority of films produced in France. It also has its own subsidiary companies with direct involvement in film production.  StudioCanal, one of those subsidiaries, announced in 2011 that it would now spend €200 million a year on movie production, establishing its position as "the first port of call outside the U.S. for intelligent upmarket movies" such as "Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy" which is fully financed by the studio.  Formers Channels
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP] California Pacific Conference  The California Pacific Conference (Cal Pac) is a college athletic conference affiliated with the National Association of Intercollegiate Athletics (NAIA). The conference commissioner is Don Ott. Conference leadership is shared among the member institutions. The conference president is Themy Adachi of Mills College. The conference vice president is Farnum Smith of William Jessup University. The secretary is Marv Christopher of California Maritime Academy. The conference was formed in 1996.  Conference members range from members of the University of California and California State University systems to religious and liberal arts colleges
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP]
What sport does Christophe Ott play? [SEP] Starz  Starz (stylized as STARZ since 2016; pronounced "stars") is an American premium cable and satellite television network owned by Lions Gate Entertainment, and is the flagship property of parent subsidiary Starz Inc. Programming on Starz consists of theatrically released motion pictures and first-run original television series. Created in 1994 as a multiplex service of Encore (now Starz Encore), Starz operates six 24-hour, linear multiplex channels; a traditional subscription video on demand service; and a namesake over-the-top streaming platform that both acts as a TV Everywhere offering for Starz's linear television subscribers and is sold directly to streaming-only consumers.  Starz is also sold independently of traditional and over-the-top multichannel video programming distributors a la carte through Apple TV Channels and Amazon Video Channels, which feature VOD library content and live feeds of Starz's linear television services (consisting of the primary channel's East and West Coast feeds and, for Amazon Video customers, the East Coast feeds of its five multiplex channels). Starz's programming has been licensed for use by a number of channels and platforms worldwide, and the brand name is licensed by Bell Media for a companion channel of the Canadian-based company's Crave premium service.  Starz and its sister networks, Starz Encore and MoviePlex, are headquartered in Santa Monica, California, with satellite office facilities located at the Meridian International Business Center complex in Englewood, Colorado, and at a small office located on 5th Avenue in New York City. , Starz was available to approximately 28.517 million U.S. households that had a subscription to a multichannel television provider (27.675 million of which receive Starz's primary channel at minimum).
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP]  Stephen Brenner (born 1974 in Waterford, Ireland) is an Irish sportsperson. He plays hurling as a goalkeeper with his local club De La Salle and was a member of the Waterford senior inter-county team from the 1990s until the 2000s.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP]  After his time as a player, Connor moved on to coach football and work in sports ministry and sports leadership. He first coached at Western Washington University (1986). Later he became the Southern Indiana Area Director for the Fellowship of Christian Athletes. He was Chaplain of Indiana University's varsity football team from 1987-1989 under Coach Bill Mallory, whom Connor had first met when Mallory coached at Northern Illinois University. Connor then coached the Oxford Saints American Football Club in England from 1990-1995. He was also Assistant Head Coach for the United States Air Force team at RAF Upper Heyford. In 1992-93, He has had various roles in chaplaincy to players in the Scottish Premier League and England's Premier League. He was Chaplain for the NFL Europe Scottish Claymores from 1999–2004. He returned as Chaplain for Indiana University's varsity football team under Coach Kevin Wilson. He facilitated the network of sports ministries in North America 2006-2015 and teaches leadership globally, establishing ministry organizations on every continent.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP]  Steve Connor (born October 5, 1961) is an author, speaker, leadership coach, and former NFL football player. He is the founder of Sports Outreach International, and has worked with athletes and sports organizations on every continent except Antarctica. His books have been distributed worldwide.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP]  Connor attended Wheaton North High School in northern Illinois, where he was a prominent football player. He first attended Northern Illinois University, as a Division 1 scholarship athlete in football. From there, he transferred to Azusa Pacific University, where he was twice named an All-American player (1982 and 1983) and was inducted into APU's Hall of Fame in 2008. After college, Steve was a free agent for the 1984 Chicago Bears, ending his season on the injured reserve list. In the 1985 season, he was picked up by the L.A. Rams as a free agent, where he suffered a career-ending knee injury.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP]  Connor became the assistant coach of the American Hockey League's New Haven Nighthawks following his playing career. For the first Heritage Classic, Connor was selected to the Montreal Canadiens legends team. He was one of two players present to have played on both the Oilers and Canadiens. Connor was inducted into the Manitoba Hockey Hall of Fame in 2016. Connor has been seen at charity events, does motivational speaking, and hosts a podcast, "View from the Penalty Box". Connor competed on the All Athletes All Star edition of Wipeout Canada on April 24, 2011.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP] Steve Connor  Steve Connor (born October 5, 1961) is an author, speaker, leadership coach, and former NFL football player. He is the founder of Sports Outreach International, and has worked with athletes and sports organizations on every continent except Antarctica. His books have been distributed worldwide.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP] Steve O'Connor  Steve O'Connor played 290 games in the Australian National Soccer League (NSL) and represented Australia in the national team with 44 Socceroo appearances.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP] Medical Investigation  Medical Investigation is an American medical drama television series that began September 9, 2004, on NBC. It ran for 20 one-hour episodes before its cancellation on March 25, 2005. The series was co-produced by Paramount Network Television and NBC Universal Television Studio.  The series featured the cases of an elite team of medical experts of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) who investigate unusual public health crises, such as sudden outbreaks of serious and mysterious diseases. In actuality, medical investigative duties in the United States are normally the responsibility of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and local health departments, while the NIH is primarily a disease-research and -theory organization.
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP] Stephen A. Smith  Stephen Anthony Smith (born ) is an American sports television personality, sports radio host, and sports journalist. He is a commentator on ESPN's "First Take", where he appears with Molly Qerim. He also makes frequent appearances as an NBA analyst on "SportsCenter". Smith also is an NBA analyst for ESPN on "NBA Countdown" and NBA broadcasts on ESPN. He also hosted "The Stephen A. Smith Show" on ESPN Radio. Smith is a featured columnist for ESPNNY.com, ESPN.com, and "The Philadelphia Inquirer".
What sport does Stephen Connor play? [SEP] Connor McDavid  Connor Andrew McDavid (born January 13, 1997) is a Canadian professional ice hockey centre and captain of the Edmonton Oilers of the National Hockey League (NHL). The Oilers selected him first overall in the 2015 NHL Entry Draft.  McDavid spent his childhood playing ice hockey against older children. Coached by his father, McDavid won four Ontario Minor Hockey Association championships with the York Simcoe Express, but he left the team in 2011 to join the Toronto Marlboros of the Greater Toronto Hockey League (GTHL). There, McDavid was named the GTHL Player of the Year and the winner of the Tim Adams Memorial Trophy. He was granted exceptional player status in 2012 by Hockey Canada, which allowed him to begin playing junior ice hockey at the age of 15. The Erie Otters of the Ontario Hockey League (OHL) selected him first overall in that year's draft, and he played there until 2015. McDavid's OHL career concluded with a 2014–15 season in which he recorded 120 points and received a number of OHL and Canadian Hockey League (CHL) awards, including the Red Tilson Trophy, Wayne Gretzky 99 Award, and CHL Player of the Year awards. McDavid also represented Canada at several international competitions during this time, winning gold medals at the 2013 IIHF World U18 Championships and 2015 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships.  After finishing his junior hockey career, McDavid joined the Oilers for their season. Despite missing three months of his rookie season due to a fractured clavicle, he was named to the NHL All-Rookie Team and was a finalist for the Calder Memorial Trophy. The following year, the Oilers appointed a 19-year-old McDavid the youngest captain in NHL history. Recording 100 points during the season, McDavid also became the youngest player to win the Art Ross Trophy for the leading scorer in the NHL. He was also awarded the Hart Memorial Trophy, Ted Lindsay Award, and was selected to the NHL First All-Star Team. Although the Oilers missed the Stanley Cup playoffs during the next two seasons, McDavid scored 41 goals in consecutive years. He injured his knee in the final game of the season but underwent a nonsurgical rehabilitation process that allowed him to return in time for the start of the season. In , despite the COVID-19 pandemic shortening the NHL season to only 56 games, McDavid recorded 100 points for the fourth time in his career.  McDavid is considered one of the best players in the NHL by other players, fans, and journalists, and he has drawn comparisons to players such as Sidney Crosby and Wayne Gretzky. His opponents have praised his speed on the ice, and McDavid has won Fastest Skater at the NHL All-Star Skills Competition three times. He is a four-time NHL First Team All-Star, a four-time recipient of the Art Ross Trophy, a three-time winner of the Ted Lindsay Award, and one of only two playersafter fellow Oilers captain Wayne Gretzky in to unanimously win the Hart Memorial Trophy.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]  Ladislav Žák (born 21 April 1988) is a Slovak football forward who currently plays for Slovak side FC ViOn Zlaté Moravce.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]  Ladislav Žák (June 25, 1900 &ndash; May 26, 1973 in Prague) was a Czech architect, painter, architectural theorist and teacher. He was an important exponent of the Czech functionalist architecture in the 1930s, later he devoted himself mainly to landscape architecture. In his theoretical works, he laid the foundations of the Czech landscape ecology.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]  Ladislav Žemla (6 November 1887 – 18 June 1955) was a Czech tennis player. He competed for Bohemia at the 1906, 1908 and 1912 Summer Olympics and for Czechoslovakia at the 1920 and 1924 Summer Olympics. At the 1920 Olympics, he won a bronze medal in the mixed doubles event, together with his wife Milada Skrbková. He also won a bronze medal at the 1906 Intercalated Games, playing with his brother Zdeněk Žemla.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]  He made two appearances in the Slovak Corgoň liga, one for AS Trenčín and second for FC ViOn Zlaté Moravce.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]  Ladislav Švarc (born 13 November 1978) is a former professional tennis player from Slovakia. Švarc competed in the main singles draw of the 2001 Australian Open, as a qualifier. He lost a four set match to Rainer Schüttler in the opening round. In 2000, Švarc made his Davis Cup debut for Slovakia, when he played with fifth and deciding rubber of their World Group fixture against Austria, which he lost to Markus Hipfl. His only other Davis Cup appearance came in 2002 when he lost to American James Blake, after winning the first set.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP] Ladislav  Ladislav is a Czech, Slovak and Croatian variant of the Slavic name Vladislav. The female form of this name is Ladislava.  Folk etymology occasionally links "Ladislav" with the Slavic goddess Lada.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP] 2022–23 Czech First League  The 2022–23 Czech First League, known as the FORTUNA:LIGA for sponsorship reason, is the 30th season of the Czech Republic's top-tier football for professional clubs since its establishment, in 1993. FC Viktoria Plzeň are the reigning champions. The season started on 30 July 2022. The first half of the season will have 16 rounds, finishing on 13 November 2022 because of the 2022 FIFA World Cup, and the other half will commence on 28 January 2023. The season is expected to end on 28 May 2023 with two extra play-out fixtures on 1 and 4 June 2023.  The season format is unchanged from last season, each team will play in the league format home and away matches. The lowest-ranked team will be relegated directly to the second league, the two teams positioned 14th and 15th will play a play-out with two teams from the second league positioned 2nd and 3rd in a home and away format. This will be the fifth season to use VAR, featuring it in all matches played. The year-to-year changes in the format of the competition are only cosmetic, the most significant change being the expansion of the number of substitutes on the substitute bench to 11.
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]
What sport does Ladislav Žák play? [SEP]
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP]  The 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup was the fourth Euro Beach Soccer Cup, one of Europe's two major beach soccer championships at the time, held in February 2002, in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain. Portugal won the championship, claiming their second successive title and third overall, with hosts Spain finishing second. France beat Italy in the third place play off to finish third and fourth respectively. Eight teams participated in the tournament who played in a straightforward knockout tournament, starting with the quarter finals, with extra matches deciding the nations who finished in fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth place.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP]  The following matches took place between the losing nations in the quarter finals to determine the final standings of the nations finishing in fifth to eighth place. The semi finals took place on the same day of the semi finals of the main tournament and the play offs took place on the day of the final.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP]  The 2001 Euro Beach Soccer Cup, was the third Euro Beach Soccer Cup, one of Europe's two major beach soccer championships at the time, held in February 2001, in Maspalomas, Spain. Portugal won the championship, with hosts Spain finishing second. Italy beat Germany in the third place play off to finish third and fourth respectively, replicating the result of the 1998 Euro Beach Soccer Cup. Eight teams participated in the tournament who played in a straightforward knockout tournament, starting with the quarter finals, with extra matches deciding the nations who finished in fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth place
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP]  The 2003 Euro Beach Soccer Cup was the fifth Euro Beach Soccer Cup. Held in April 2003, it was one of Europe's two major beach soccer championships at the time in Liège, Belgium. Portugal won the championship, claiming their third successive title and fourth overall, with France finishing second. This was the first time the final was not between Portugal and Spain since the tournament was established in 1998. Spain beat Germany in the third place play off to finish third and fourth respectively. This was the first time the host nation had not featured in the top four places. Eight teams participated in the tournament who played in a straightforward knockout tournament, starting with the quarter finals, with extra matches deciding the nations who finished in fifth, sixth, seventh and eighth place.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP]  The following matches took place between the losing nations, in the quarter finals, to determine the final standings of the nations finishing in fifth to eighth place. The semi finals took place on the same day of the semi finals of the main tournament, and the play offs took place on the day of the final.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP] 2002 Beach Soccer World Championships  The 2002 Beach Soccer World Championships was the eighth edition of the "Beach Soccer World Championships", the most prestigious competition in international beach soccer contested by men's national teams until 2005, when the competition was then replaced by the second iteration of a world cup in beach soccer, the better known "FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup". It was organised by Brazilian sports agency Koch Tavares (one of the founding partners of Beach Soccer Worldwide).  The tournament continued to change its location, this time being staged for the first time at two venues, in Vitória, (Espírito Santo) and primarily Guarujá, (São Paulo), Brazil. In addition, the number of participating teams was reduced back to eight, as it was during the first three editions.  Brazil narrowly beat defending champions Portugal 6–5 in the final to reclaim the title, winning their seventh crown in eight attempts.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP] Madjer  João Victor Saraiva (born 22 January 1977), better known as Madjer, is a Portuguese retired beach soccer player. He played in the forward position, and has won numerous awards at the FIFA Beach Soccer World Cups for his goalscoring abilities. He took the nickname Madjer because his idol is the former Algerian player Rabah Madjer. He has often been hailed as the best-ever beach soccer player. He became the first player to score 1000 international beach soccer career goals in an 8–1 win against England in September 2016.  In 2019, he was considered, by the prestigious magazine France Football, to be the best beach soccer player of all time.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP] FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup  The FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup is an international beach soccer competition contested by the national teams of the member associations of FIFA, the sport's global governing body. The tournament was preceded by the "Beach Soccer World Championships" established in 1995 which took place every year for the next decade under the supervision of Beach Soccer Worldwide (BSWW) and its predecessors. FIFA joined hands with BSWW in 2005 to take over the organization of the competition, re-branding it as an official FIFA tournament.   Since 2009, the tournament has taken place every two years to allow continental tournaments to flourish without the burden of the World Cup qualifiers crowding the schedule every 12 months. The growing global popularity of beach soccer resulted in FIFA's decision to move the stage of the World Cup from its native home in Brazil to other parts of the globe to capitalise on and continue to stimulate global interest.   The current tournament format lasts over approximately 10 days and involves 16 teams initially competing in four groups of four teams. The group winners and runners-up advance to a series of knock-out stages until the champion is crowned. The losing semi-finalists play each other in a play-off match to determine the third and fourth-placed teams.  The first edition held outside Brazil was in 2008 in Marseille, France. The most recent edition in 2021 was held in Moscow, Russia, and crowned the hosts, playing as RFU, as champions for the third time – after defeating Japan 5–2 in the final.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP] Alan Cavalcanti  Alan Cavalcanti better known as Alan (born 21 June 1975) is a Portuguese beach soccer player. He plays in wing and forward positions.
What sport does 2002 Euro Beach Soccer Cup play? [SEP] Sport in Barcelona  Barcelona, the capital of Catalonia, is the second largest city and metropolitan area in Spain and sixth-most populous urban area in the European Union. It has hosted many major international tournaments and has professional teams in different sports.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]  Sebastian Owuya (born 8 October 1991) is a Swedish ice hockey player, currently playing with Kongsvinger Knights of the Norwegian GET-ligaen. Owuya played one season in the Western Hockey League with the Medicine Hat Tigers. Owuya was drafted 169th overall by the Atlanta Thrashers in the 2010 NHL Entry Draft. Sebastian's brother Mark is a goaltender who played for the Toronto Marlies. The brothers were born to a Ugandan father and a Russian mother.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]  Morote started competing in athletics when he was 16 years old. Prior to taking up the sport, he was involved with football but switched to athletics after a teacher suggested his speed with the ball was better suited for athletics. He has competed in international competitions in Tunisia, Hungary, Sweden, Australia, France, Prague, Brazil and China. Locally, he participated in a number of workshops where he was coached by Camilo and Maxi. He is a member of Club Paralímpico de la Región athletic club in Castilla-La Mancha, where he is the only male participant. He has been funded by the 'Castilla-La Mancha Olímpica' program run by the Foundation for Culture and Sports of Castilla-La Mancha. When
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]  Sebastian Nicol Capozucchi Collant (born 23 December 1995) is a Chilean-American professional footballer who plays as a defender for USL League One club Chattanooga Red Wolves.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]  older than he was. He also played baseball in the New Westminster Minor Baseball Association and for the North Delta Blue Jays in the B.C. Premier Baseball League. Morneau attended Lord Tweedsmuir Elementary School in New Westminster, later transferring to Richard McBride Elementary School, where his mother was a teacher and coach and where he enrolled in a French immersion program. He played basketball and volleyball and ball hockey on the school teams. Growing up, Morneau was an avid sports fan, whose favourite athletes included hockey players Patrick Roy, Cam Neely (also a native of British Columbia), and Ray Bourque; and baseball
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]  José Martínez Morote (born 5 February 1984 in Hellín, Albacete) is a Paralympic athlete from Spain competing mainly in category T20 track and field events. He has an intellectual disability, attended school in Cruz de Mayo and serves as a mentor to local track and field athletes. While he originally started sport playing football, he switched to athletics by the age of 16 at the suggestion of a teacher who noticed his speed with the ball. He has gone on to compete at the 2007 World Games, the 2011 IPC World Athletics Championships in Christchurch, New Zealand and the 2012 Summer Paralympics. Martínez has held at least two athletics scholarships to continue his participation in the sport.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP] List of people with dwarfism  The following is a list of people who are known for their dwarfism and who have been open about it. While these people are not known for being the "shortest ever", they have been mentioned in sources describing how the condition has affected their lives. Dwarfism is caused by several different types of medical conditions, and is typically defined as an adult with a height of or less. Records or mentions of people with dwarfism have not always been kept well, resulting in estimated heights that were taken from eyewitnesses. In some given cases the height of the person is unknown except to say that they were mentioned as a "dwarf" in various media. This list does not include every prominent person with dwarfism, as others are already included on other linked Wikipedia lists.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP]
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP] 2009 Colo-Colo season  The 2009 season is Club Social y Deportivo Colo-Colo's 78th season at Chilean Primera División. This article shows player statistics and all matches (official and friendly) that the club have played during the 2009 season.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP] medal at Wroclaw (Poland) during the World's Games in 2017. The next year 2018, he won the Gold medal at Vantaa (Finland) during the European Championship. Sébastien Sejean Sébastien Sejean (born October 31, 1983) is a former American football safety. He played CIS football for the Université Laval Rouge et Or. Sebastian Sejean discovered American football through a supervisor from his college that invited him to attend training sessions for Molossian Asnieres-sur-Seine. In 2001, he went to Amiens where he joined the division, with hopes of joining the French Federation of American football, and eventually joined the Spartans club Amiens.
What sport does Sebastián Morquio play? [SEP] Sebastian Franco Sebastian Franco (born February 5, 1993) is a Colombian racquetball player. Franco is a former World Champion in Men's Doubles, winning the title in 2014 with Alejandro Herrera. In 2018, Franco became the first South American to win a tournament on the International Racquetball Tour (IRT), when he won the March Madness event in San Antonio. He finished the 2016-17 IRT season ranked 8th, which was his second consecutive year in the top 10. Franco won Men’s Doubles at the 2014 World Championships with Alejandro Herrera in Burlington, Ontario, Canada. They played the home country team of Canadians
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP]  Cho Keung-Yeon (, born on March 18, 1961) is a former South Korea football player. he was top scorer of K-League in 1989.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP]  During the 2014 Asia Games, Cho hit the game winner in South Korea's game against Iran putting South Korea on top, 79–77. Cho played for the South Korean squad which competed in the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup. He averaged 6.2 points, 2.0 rebounds and 2.0 assists per game.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP]  Cho Se-Kwon (born June 26, 1978) is a South Korean former professional football player. As a player he represented Chunnam Dragons, Ulsan Hyundai Horang-i, Goyang Kookmin Bank as well as Chinese clubs Liaoning Hongyun and Chongqing Lifan. While internationally he was a part of the South Korea U23 team that took part in the 2000 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP]  Cho began his professional career in 2002 with K-League club Suwon Samsung Bluewings. He moved to Chunnam Dragons at the end of the 2004 season in a swap deal which saw Kim Nam-Il move to Suwon. In August 2005, he joined Seongnam Ilhwa Chunma. He was part of the South Korea football team in 2004 Summer Olympics, who finished second in Group A, making it through to the next round, before being defeated by silver medal winners Paraguay. In May 2010, he left team to do military service. On 10 January 2014, Cho transferred to Chinese Super League side Shanghai Greenland Shenhua and becomes the first ever South Korean player in history of the Chinese club.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP]  While attending Sokcho Commerce High School in Gangwon-do, Cho was considered one of the top high school hitting pitchers nationwide along with Choo Shin-soo and Lee Dae-ho. As the team's ace and cleanup hitter Cho led Sokcho Commerce High School, considered underdogs, to the  quarterfinals at the Blue Dragon Flag National Championship and the President's Cup National Championship in 2000. In the same year Cho was selected for the South Korean Junior National Team. The team won the 2000 World Junior Baseball Championship in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, and Cho led the attack alongside Lee Dae-ho, Choo Shin-soo, Kim Tae-kyun and Jeong Keun-woo. Upon leaving high school, Cho was selected 19th overall by the Samsung Lions at the 2001 KBO Draft, but decided to play college baseball at Konkuk University. In his junior year at Konkuk University in 2003, Cho helped his team to win the Fall League of the National Collegiate Championship earning MVP honors with the batting title.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP] Kim Yeon-koung  Kim Yeon-Koung (, ; born 26 February 1988) is a South Korean former professional volleyball player and a former member of the FIVB Athletes' Commission. She is an outside hitter and the former captain of the South Korean National Team. She announced her retirement from the national team in August 2021.  Kim signed a three-year contract with Fenerbahçe in 2011 after playing for Heungkuk Life in South Korea for four seasons and JT Marvelous in Japan for two seasons. She signed another two-year extension with Fenerbahçe and extended it for another season in 2016. She spent the 2017–18 season in the Chinese Volleyball league and came back to Turkey in the following year with Eczacıbaşı VitrA.  Despite South Korea finishing in 4th place, Kim was the Most Valuable Player and Best Scorer at the 2012 London Olympics, where she set the Olympic record for most points scored (207), topping the previous record of 204 points by Yekaterina Gamova at the 2004 Olympics in Athens.  Kim is the first player in the history of Asian volleyball to receive an MVP award in the CEV Women's Champions League.  Kim is the first player to have four entries in the list of those to have scored 30 points or more in a single Olympic Games match in volleyball.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP] 2012 China League One  The 2012 China League One was the ninth season of the China League One, the second tier of the Chinese football league pyramid, since its establishment. It began on March 17, 2012 and ended on October 28, 2012. The size of the league has been expanded from 14 to 16 teams this season.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP] List of South Korean football champions  The South Korean football champions are the winners of the highest league in South Korean football, which is currently the K League 1.  Since the league turned professional in 1983, Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors has won nine titles, the record for most titles won. Seongnam FC has won the league seven times, followed by FC Seoul on six occasions, and Pohang Steelers with five titles. Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors is also the only team that won the title for four consecutive seasons.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP] Donghaean derby  Donghaean Derby (, lit. east sea coast Derby, the Korean local name for Sea of Japan coast Derby) is a oldest and fierce football rivalry between Pohang Steelers and Ulsan Hyundai, two professional football clubs based in Gyeongsang Province in South Korea.Pohang and Ulsan are geographically close east coast ports of Korea.
What sport does Cho Keung-yeon play? [SEP] Yanbian Funde F.C.  Yanbian Funde F.C. () was a Chinese football club. The team was based in Yanji, Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, Jilin province where their home stadium is the Yanji Nationwide Fitness Centre Stadium that has a seating capacity of 30,000.  The club's predecessor was originally called Jilin Football Team and they achieved one top tier domestic league title before 1994, when the club was reorganized to become a completely professional football unit. At the end of the 2000 league campaign, the club was relegated from the top tier of Chinese football, however, the club faced financial difficulties and sold the first team as well as the franchise to Zhejiang Green Town. After the sale, the club assembled the reserve team and joined the third tier before they eventually gained promotion to the second tier in 2004, and first tier in 2015. It was dissolved just before the 2019 season due to owing taxes.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP]  Francis Edward Allcock (7 September 1925 – June 2005) was a professional footballer, who played in The Football League for Bristol Rovers between 1952 and 1956. Allcock, who was born in Nottingham, played youth team football for Beeston Boys Club, before joining local League side Nottingham Forest at the end of World War II. He spent a year with Forest prior to the resumption of normal Football League matches, and joined Aston Villa in 1946, where he failed to make an impression on the first team. He had a spell playing non-League football with Cheltenham Town, until returning to the professional game in 1952, when he joined Bristol Rovers. In a four-year spell with The Pirates he played in 59 League games, before being forced to retire in 1956 with a serious knee injury.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP]  Clarence William Allcock (born 18 July 1907) was an English footballer who played in the Football League as a defender for Bradford Park Avenue and Barrow. He was born in Codnor.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP]  Frank Ernest Sandercock was born on August 16, 1887, in Woodstock, Ontario, to parents Francis Sandercock and Mary Ethel Powell. He had two brothers and two sisters. His father was a plasterer, and died while Sandercock was a teenager. Sandercock excelled at sprinting and track and field sports as a youth, and later served as an executive with the Ontario Hockey Association. After he moved to Calgary in 1913, he founded a hockey organization for the city which had no local leagues of its own at the time. He was later joined in Calgary by his brother Willard Sandercock who worked as a lawyer. Sandercock was married to Nettie Evelyn Cosford on January 1, 1915, in Woodstock. Both he and his wife were registered as Methodists.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP] Annette Allcock (born 1923), English artist ; Bill Allcock (1907–1971), English footballer ; Daniel Allcock, American mathematician, professor of mathematics at the University of Texas at Austin ; Frank Allcock (1925–2005), English footballer ; Harry R. Allcock (born 1932), American academic chemist ; Henry Allcock (1759–1808), English judge ; Maartin Allcock (1957–2018), English musician ; Terry Allcock (born 1935), English footballer ; Thomas Allcock (1815–1891), American inventor and businessman ; Tony Allcock (born 1955), English bowls player Allcock is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP]  Frank Ernest Sandercock (August 16, 1887October 27, 1942) was a Canadian ice hockey administrator. He served as president of both the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association and the Alberta Amateur Hockey Association, and had previously been an executive with the Ontario Hockey Association and founded a hockey organization to operate leagues in Calgary. He was an early proponent of junior ice hockey and senior ice hockey in Alberta, fostered growth in the game, and sought to reinvest profits into minor ice hockey for the younger generation. Sandercock had the Allan Cup championship format for senior hockey in Canada changed from a two-game series decided on total goals into a best-of-three games series which led to increased profits. The CAHA had become the largest amateur sport body in Canada by 1928, and control of the Allan Cup was transferred from its trustees to the association. He is the namesake of two trophies awarded for junior hockey competition in Alberta, and was made a life member of the Alberta Amateur Hockey Association.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP] Frank Sinclair  Frank Mohammed Sinclair (born 3 December 1971) is an English-born Jamaican former professional football player and manager and current coach at Doncaster Rovers.  He made 756 league and cup appearances in a 25-year playing career, scoring 27 goals. A defender, he began his career at Chelsea, turning professional in May 1990 and then making his debut in the Football League in April 1991. He played on loan at West Bromwich Albion between December 1991 and March 1992. He established himself in the first-team back at Chelsea during the 1992–93 Premier League campaign and went on to be named as the club's Player of the Year for 1993. He played on the losing side in the 1994 FA Cup final, before picking up a winners medal after Chelsea beat Middlesbrough 2–0 in the 1997 final. Chelsea also won the League Cup by beating Middlesbrough 2–0 in the final the following year, and Sinclair scored the opening goal in extra-time. Chelsea also won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup in 1998, though Sinclair was ruled out of the final due to injury.  He was sold on to Leicester City in August 1998 for a fee of £2 million. He won his second League Cup final in 2000, as Leicester defeated Tranmere Rovers 2–1. He spent a total of six seasons at Leicester, five of which were spent in the Premier League, the exception being the 2002–03 First Division promotion campaign. He joined Championship club Burnley on a free transfer in June 2004 and served as club captain from January 2005 to summer 2006. He joined League One side Huddersfield Town on an emergency loan in February 2007, which became a permanent transfer in the summer. He dropped into League Two to join Lincoln City in July 2008, who loaned him out to Wycombe Wanderers in March 2009; he helped Wycombe to win promotion out of League Two at the end of the 2008–09 season. He then spent the next two seasons in the Conference with Wrexham, before playing for Hendon in November 2011 and Colwyn Bay in January 2012.  Born in England, he was called up to represent Jamaica at the 1998 CONCACAF Gold Cup, and played five games as the team finished in fourth-place after losing to Brazil in the third-place play-off match. He also played all three of his country's games at the 1998 FIFA World Cup. He went on to feature twice in the 2000 CONCACAF Gold Cup and ended his international career in October 2003 after a total of 28 caps.  Sinclair was appointed as player-manager at Colwyn Bay in February 2013 and was named as Conference North Manager of the Month in April and December 2013. He went on to serve Brackley Town as caretaker-manager in October 2015 and served as Hednesford Town manager from December 2015 to April 2016. He later spent time as a coach at Stoke City, Radcliffe, Port Vale and Doncaster Rovers. He is the father of fellow professional footballer Tyrese Sinclair.  He was appointed assistant manager at Doncaster Rovers on 30th December 2021.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP]
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP] List of fatalities from aviation accidents  Many notable human fatalities have resulted from aviation accidents and incidents.  Those killed as part of a sporting, political or musical group who flew together when the accident took place are usually only listed under the group sections; however, some are also listed as individuals.
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP] List of Freemasons (A–D)   </ref>
What sport does Frank Allcock play? [SEP] To Serve Them All My Days (TV series)  To Serve Them All My Days is a British television drama series, adapted by Andrew Davies from R. F. Delderfield's 1972 novel "To Serve Them All My Days". It was first broadcast by the BBC over 13 episodes in 1980 and 1981. It was broadcast in Australia in 1981 by the Australian Broadcasting Commission, and in 1982 by PBS in the United States as part of their "Masterpiece Theatre" anthology series.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]   Radek Opršal  (born 9 May 1978, Ostrava, Czechoslovakia) is a retired Czech footballer.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]  Radek Havel (born May 30, 1994) is a Czech professional ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays with Piráti Chomutov in the Czech Extraliga. Havel made his Czech Extraliga debut playing with Piráti Chomutov debut during the 2012–13 Czech Extraliga season.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]  Radek Ťoupal (born August 16, 1966 in Písek, Czechoslovakia) is a former ice hockey player. His debut in Czechoslovak ice hockey league came in season 1982/1983, playing for HC České Budějovice, when he was only 16. During an army duty spent two years playing for Slovakian club HC Dukla Trenčín. He played on 1992 Bronze Medal winning Olympic ice hockey team for Czechoslovakia and also on Bronze Medal winning 1993 World Championships. Drafted 6th round draft choice of the Edmonton Oilers in 1987. Radek earned a university degree and is qualified to be a teacher. He left professional ice hockey in 2001.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]  Radek Koblížek (born 20 October 1997) is a Czech ice hockey forward currently playing for Oulun Kärpät of the Finnish Liiga. Radek Koblížek born in Ivančice (Brno-country district) of the Czech Republic. Radek Koblížek started with hockey, from about 4 years in Rosice u Brna HC Pike Rosice (HC Štika Rosice). After about 4 years, he moved into a big team, and then He joined to HC Kometa Brno's most successful ice hockey team in the Czech Republic. When it was Radek Koblizek 15 years, won with team HC Kometa Brno Club Junior and he moved to Finland to team of the Carpathians, where Koblížek has earned the Oulu in Finland and the 2018 Championship title in the year 2019, he became more a master of Finland (all for men Supreme Finnish ice-hockey competition). Was a member of the Czech Republic in the categories of U15, U16, U17, U18, U19, U20. By the year 2019 is also a member of the team and the team of men of the Czech ice hockey national team.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]  Radek Číp (born June 17, 1992) is a Czech professional ice hockey forward. He currently plays for Odense Bulldogs Číp made his Czech Extraliga debut playing with HC Pardubice during the 2013–14 Czech Extraliga season. At the conclusion of the season, Cip left Pardubice as a free agent and signed an optional two-year contract with Czech club, Orli Znojmo, who compete in the Austrian EBEL on May 29, 2014.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP] List of foreign Ekstraklasa players  The following list is a summary of foreign football players, who have played at least one game in the highest level in men's football league system in Poland (1948–2008 I liga, since 2009 Ekstraklasa). Up to now, 104 different federations associated with one of the following: AFC, CAF, CONCACAF, CONMEBOL, OFC or UEFA have been represented in Ekstraklasa.  Players must meet both of the following two criteria:  In bold: footballers that play in Ekstraklasa in 2022-23 season, and the clubs they play for.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP] List of foreign Liga I players  This is a list of foreign players in the Liga I, which commenced play in 1909. The following players must meet both of the following two criteria: More specifically,  Clubs listed are those that the player has played at least one Liga I game for.  Seasons listed are those that the player has played at least one Liga I game in. Note that seasons, not calendar years, are used. For example, "1992–1995" indicates that the player has played in every season from 1992–1993 to 1994–1995, but not necessarily every calendar year from 1992 to 1995.  In bold: players that have played at least one Liga I game in the current season (2022–2023) and the clubs they've played for. They include players that have subsequently left the club, but do not include current players of a Liga I club that have not played a Liga I game in the current season.
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP]
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP] Radek Matějovský Radek Matějovský (born November 17, 1977) is a Czech professional ice hockey player. He was selected by the New York Islanders in the 9th round (250th overall) of the 1998 NHL Entry Draft. Matejovsky played with HC Slavia Praha and HC Berounští Medvědi in the 1996/1997 Czech Extraliga season, HC Slavia Praha in the 1997/1998 Czech Extraliga season, HC Dukla Jihlava in the 1998/1999 Czech Extraliga season, HC Slavia Praha and HC IPB Pojišťovna Pardubice in the 1999/2000 Czech Extraliga season, HC Slavia Praha in the 2000/2001 Czech Extraliga season, HC Slavia Praha in the 2001/2002 Czech Extraliga
What sport does Radek Opršal play? [SEP] contract after their promorion to Gambrinus liga for the 2013–14 season and Sňozík became a free agent. Radek Sňozík Radek Sňozík (born 17 October 1975) is a Czech football goalkeeper. He last played for Bohemians 1905 and captained the team. Sňozík played most of his Gambrinus liga career for Marila Příbram, where he spent six seasons before moving to Bohemians 1905. A goalkeeper who had been taking penalties since his days in youth football, he scored his first penalty for Bohemians in a 2-1 loss to national league home match against FC Tescoma Zlín in November 2007. He was repeatedly
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]  In his sophomore year in high school, Homola was one of three centers on the Eveleth-Gilbert High School team who would go on to be stars in college hockey, the others being Dave Delich and Mark Pavelich. Homola graduated in 1977 and began attending the University of Vermont that fall. After a good freshman season, he took over as the leader on offense, pacing the Catamounts with 55 points as a sophomore. As a junior Homola gained wide recognition for his scoring prowess and he was invited to join the US national team a month before the 1980 Winter Olympics but he turned down the offer and watched as his former teammate Pavelich went on to win a gold medal. That season Homola was named as an All-American and ECAC Player of the Year while helping the Catamounts capture the ECAC West Division. After graduating in 1981, Homola signed
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]  with the Minnesota North Stars minor league system and played well. Unfortunately, short players were not in high demand for NHL teams. He bounced around in the Minnesota and Chicago Blackhawks organizations for a few years before heading to Scotland in 1986. In his first season with the Dundee Rockets, Homola produced astounding numbers, scoring 167 points in just 34 games (nearly 5 points per game), contributing on more than half of the team's goals that season. Dundee folded after the year but Homola stayed in the city when the Rockets were replaced by the Dundee Tigers. Homola was again the focus of the offense but didn't continue his torrid pace for much longer. After 7 games the following year, Homola retired for the game and returned home, eventually becoming a coach at his old high school. Homola was inducted into the Vermont Athletic Hall of Fame in 1991.
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]  David Jelínek (born September 7, 1990) is a Czech professional basketball player for MoraBanc Andorra of the Liga ACB. He is a 1.96 m (6'5") tall shooting guard-small forward. He also represents the senior Czech Republic national team.
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]  Born in Blainville, Quebec, David played junior hockey in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League for the Shawinigan Cataractes. After four seasons with the team, he briefly turned pro in 2002, playing eleven games in the ECHL for the Trenton Titans and six games in the AHL for the Bridgeport Sound Tigers before returning to the QMJHL for the Baie-Comeau Drakkar. He played his first full pro season during 2003–04, playing in the Central Hockey League for the Laredo Bucks where he won the Ray Miron President's Cup, the CHL championship trophy. In 2004, he signed for the Danbury Thrashers of the United Hockey League, scoring 41 points in 78 league games. He also played 2 games in the
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]  Homola played in his youth for Sokol Přerov nad Labem, SK Český Brod, Spartak Čelákovice, Slavia Prague and once more Spartak Čelákovice. In Čelákovice he joined the professional team during the 1998–99 season. After only one year the defender was acquired by Gambrinus Liga club FK Jablonec 97, where he played until the end of 2002 and appeared in 61 league matches scoring six goals. In January 2003, Homola was acquired by Sparta Prague. At first he played regularly, although he made only seven league appearances in the 2004–05 season. In summer 2005, he was removed from Sparta's first team and shortly thereafter transferred to the Turkish club Malatyaspor, where he spent one season. After one year Homola returned to Sparta Prague. In the beginning he often played, by the end of the second half of the season he was hardly used. In February 2007, he returned to his former club FK Jablonec. In summer of 2010, he left Jablonec and joined Karviná.
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP]
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP] competed in ice hockey at the 1972 Winter Olympics with the Czechoslovakia national ice hockey team. His mother, Andrea Holíková, was an accomplished tennis player. His brother, Adam, currently plays for the Red Deer Rebels of the Western Hockey League and was drafted by the St. Louis Blues in the 2015 NHL Entry Draft. David Musil David Musil (born April 9, 1993) a Canadian-Czech ice hockey player who is currently playing under contract to HC Oceláři Třinec in the Czech Extraliga (ELH). He was a second round selection of the Edmonton Oilers in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft. SKA Saint
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP] to a bronze medal at the World Championships. MacIsaac speaks 5 different languages: English, French, Russian, Icelandic, and Italian. Awards and accomplishments: Team captain: David MacIsaac David MacIsaac (born April 23, 1972) is a former professional ice hockey player from Cambridge, Massachusetts. He is now the head coach of the Icelandic National Men's Hockey team. MacIsaac established his footing in the ice hockey industry when he won the NCAA championship with the University of Maine in 1992–93. He was also selected for the Hockey East All-Rookie team that season. During his collegiate career, MacIsaac majored in physical education with a
What sport does David Homoláč play? [SEP] Andre David Andre Anter David (born May 18, 1958), is a retired Assyrian Major League Baseball outfielder who played during parts of the 1984 and 1986 seasons with the Minnesota Twins. He played in 38 games and had 13 hits with 1 home run and a .245 batting average during his career. His sole home run was hit during his first official at bat in the Major Leagues. He played high school ball at Chatsworth High School in Chatsworth, CA. He played college ball at Cal-State Fullerton and was drafted in the 8th round of the 1980 draft by the
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]  Source:
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]  Alex Crombie (born 1876) was an English footballer who played as a winger for Reading and Burslem Port Vale at the start of the 20th century.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]  Crombie played for Morpeth Harriers and Southern League side Reading, before joining Second Division club Burslem Port Vale in July 1905. He scored in a 4–3 win over Chesterfield at the Athletic Ground on 9 September, and was a regular first team player from September 1905 to February 1906, at which point he lost his first team place. He departed at the end of the 1905–06 season, having made 17 league and five cup appearances for the Vale.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]  Prior to taking up athletics, Crombie was involved with basketball from a young age and came up through the Junior representative levels with the Newcastle Hunters and eventually went on to play at a state level as a 16 year old. In 2015, Crombie was introduced to para-sport, and became a National para-rowing champion by winning the men's single scull, mixed double scull (with Kathleen Murdoch) and the mixed coxed four in the LTA category, and was provisionally selected to represent Australia in the 2015 World Rowing Championships. Unfortunately, ongoing debate around classification and eligibility within rowing meant he did not compete.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]  He won the Scottish Premiership with Boroughmuir. Crombie received the first ever U.A.E Player of the Year in 2014 after winning 6 championships in a row with the world-famous Jebel Ali Dragons of Dubai. This was the first of its kind in the country and was hosted by ex Scotland Captain Rory Lawson and guests included Steve Thomson and Jonah Lomu. He played for Aberdeen GSFP.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP] Alex Crombie  Alex Crombie (born 1876) was an English footballer who played as a winger for Reading and Burslem Port Vale at the start of the 20th century.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP] 1905–06 Burslem Port Vale F.C. season  The 1905–06 season was Burslem Port Vale's eighth consecutive season (12th overall) of football in the English Football League. It was another season spent struggling at the lower end of the league.  On the pitch the team allowed goals and narrowly avoided the re-election zone. A poor season on the pitch was more than matched by a hopeless financial season off the pitch, with low attendance figures suggesting that the club could not sustain league football for much longer.<ref name="Kent" />
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP] Alexander von Humboldt  Friedrich Wilhelm Heinrich Alexander von Humboldt (14 September 17696 May 1859) was a German polymath, geographer, naturalist, explorer, and proponent of Romantic philosophy and science. He was the younger brother of the Prussian minister, philosopher, and linguist Wilhelm von Humboldt (1767–1835). Humboldt's quantitative work on botanical geography laid the foundation for the field of biogeography. Humboldt's advocacy of long-term systematic geophysical measurement laid the foundation for modern geomagnetic and meteorological monitoring.  Between 1799 and 1804, Humboldt travelled extensively in the Americas, exploring and describing them for the first time from a modern Western scientific point of view. His description of the journey was written up and published in several volumes over 21 years. Humboldt was one of the first people to propose that the lands bordering the Atlantic Ocean were once joined (South America and Africa in particular).  Humboldt resurrected the use of the word "cosmos" from the ancient Greek and assigned it to his multivolume treatise, "Kosmos", in which he sought to unify diverse branches of scientific knowledge and culture. This important work also motivated a holistic perception of the universe as one interacting entity, which introduced concepts of ecology leading to ideas of environmentalism. In 1800, and again in 1831, he described scientifically, on the basis of observations generated during his travels, local impacts of development causing human-induced climate change.
What sport does Alex Crombie play? [SEP]
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP]  The 2013 Torneo di Viareggio is the 65th edition of Torneo di Viareggio (in English, the "Viareggio Tournament"; officially the "iareggio Cup World Football Tournament Coppa Carnevale"), the annual youth football tournament held in Viareggio, Tuscany.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP]  The Torneo di Viareggio (Viareggio Tournament), officially named the Viareggio Cup World Football Tournament Coppa Carnevale, is a youth association football tournament held annually in the commune of Viareggio, Italy and its surrounding areas. Established in 1949, the Torneo di Viareggio is considered one of the most important youth football tournaments in the world. It coincides with the Carnival of Viareggio, starting on the third Monday of Carneval. The tournament runs for a fortnight, and finishes on the last Monday of Carnival. For this reason, it is also known as Coppa Carnevale (English: Carnival Cup).
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP]  The 10 teams are organized in knockout rounds, all played single tie. Four teams have to play a preliminary knockout round to access quarter finals.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP]  This is the 66th edition of Torneo di Viareggio. The 2014 winners of the Torneo di Viareggio (in English, the Viareggio Tournament, officially the Viareggio Cup World Football Tournament Coppa Carnevale), the annual youth football tournament held in Viareggio, Tuscany, are listed below.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP]  The 16 teams are organized in knockout rounds, all played single tie.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP] Ciro Immobile  Ciro Immobile (born 20 February 1990) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a striker for Serie A club Lazio, which he captains, and the Italy national team.  Immobile began his career at Sorrento. In 2009, he was purchased by Juventus, and was later loaned out to three Serie B clubs, including Pescara, with whom he won the league title as the top scorer, before moving to Genoa in 2012. After a season with the club, he moved to Juventus' rivals Torino. At Torino, he won the "Capocannoniere" award for the top scorer in Serie A. After his breakout season at Torino, he was sold to German club Borussia Dortmund for around €18 million in 2014, where they won the DFL-Supercup, before moving to Spanish club Sevilla in 2015. In 2016, he returned to Torino on loan, and was later sold to Lazio in July of that year. In his second season at Lazio, he won the "Capocannoniere" for a second time, with 29 goals in 33 games. The 2019–20 season was the most prolific of Immobile's career; he equalled the record for most Serie A goals in a season with 36, and won a third "Capocannoniere" title and first European Golden Shoe, given to the top scorer in Europe. Immobile has also won a Coppa Italia and two Supercoppa Italiana titles with Lazio. He is currently Lazio's all-time highest goalscorer. In 2022, he won the "Capocannoniere" for a fourth time, with 27 goals in 31 games.  Immobile made his debut for the Italy national team in 2014, and was included in the squad for the 2014 FIFA World Cup and two UEFA European Championships (2016 and 2020) winning the latter tournament.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP] Fabrizio Tavano  Enrico Fabrizio Vincenzo Tavano Alonso (born 16 August 1993) is an Italo-Mexican professional footballer who plays as a forward. He also holds New Zealand citizenship.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP] Club Nacional  Club Nacional is a Paraguayan professional football club based in the neighbourhood of Obrero in Asunción. Founded in 1904, the club currently plays in the Paraguayan Primera División, and holds its home games at Estadio Arsenio Erico.  Internationally, the club is referred to as Nacional Asunción, in order to distinguish itself from Uruguay's Nacional and Colombia's Atlético Nacional.
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP] Torneo di Viareggio  The Torneo di Viareggio (), officially named the Viareggio Cup World Football Tournament Coppa Carnevale, is a youth association football tournament held annually in the commune of Viareggio, Italy and its surrounding areas. Established in 1949, the Torneo di Viareggio is considered one of the most important youth football tournaments in the world.  It coincides with the Carnival of Viareggio, starting on the third Monday of Carneval. The tournament runs for a fortnight, and finishes on the last Monday of Carnival. For this reason, it is also known as "Coppa Carnevale" (English: Carnival Cup).
What sport does 2013 Torneo di Viareggio play? [SEP] Bryan Cristante  Bryan Cristante (born 3 March 1995) is an Italian professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for Serie A club Roma and the Italy national team.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP]  Julián Lalinde (born 18 December 1985) is a Uruguayan retired footballer who played as a striker. On 12 December 2019, 34-year old Lalinde announced his retirement.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP]  Olinde's career began in the youth ranks of BC Hamburg. He joined the Piraten Hamburg organization in 2011 to compete in the JBBL, Germany's under 16 division. In 2014, he made the Piraten under 19 side which plays in the NBBL, Germany's highest youth league. Olinde earned a spot on the roster of SC Rist Wedel, a member of Germany's third-tier men's league ProB, for the 2014-15 season, but had to wait until the following campaign to see playing time. In accordance with an agreement of cooperation between SC Rist Wedel and Pro A side Hamburg Towers, Olinde was permitted to play for both clubs in the 2015-16 season, but primarily appeared in Pro
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP]  Louis Franklin Olinde (born March 19, 1998 in Hamburg) is a German professional basketball player for Alba Berlin of the Basketball Bundesliga. Standing at 205 cm (6 ft 9 in), Olinde plays as guard or forward. His father Wilbert Olinde won the 1975 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament with UCLA and took his game to Germany following his collegiate career.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP]  Julian Marc Jeanvier (born 31 March 1992) is a professional footballer who plays as a central defender for club Brentford and the Guinea national team. He rose to prominence with Reims, before joining Brentford in 2018.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP]  Jeanvier was born in France and is of Guinean and Guadeloupean descent. His father was also a footballer and played for Red Star. He is married to a Guinean woman and has a Guinean passport.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP] Montevideo City Torque  Montevideo City Torque is a Uruguayan football club based in Montevideo. The club currently plays in the Uruguayan Primera División, the first division of Uruguayan league system, having achieved promotion to the Primera División for the first time ahead of the 2018 season.  Founded in 2007 as Club Atlético Torque, the club has been owned by the City Football Group (CFG) since April 2017, which eventually resulted in the change to the club's name in 2020. Montevideo City Torque shares ties with teams such as Manchester City, New York City and Melbourne City, as clubs that are also owned by CFG.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP] List of people from Winnipeg  This list of people from Winnipeg includes who were born, raised, or who achieved fame in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP] National Hockey League  The National Hockey League (NHL; , ) is a professional ice hockey league in North America comprising 32 teams—25 in the United States and 7 in Canada. It is considered to be the top ranked professional ice hockey league in the world, and is one of the four major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada. The Stanley Cup, the oldest professional sports trophy in North America, is awarded annually to the league playoff champion at the end of each season. The NHL is the fifth-wealthiest professional sport league in the world by revenue, after the National Football League (NFL), Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), and the English Premier League (EPL).  The National Hockey League was organized at the Windsor Hotel in Montreal on November 26, 1917, after the suspension of operations of its predecessor organization, the National Hockey Association (NHA), which had been founded in 1909 in Renfrew, Ontario. The NHL immediately took the NHA's place as one of the leagues that contested for the Stanley Cup in an annual interleague competition before a series of league mergers and foldings left the NHL as the only league left competing for the Stanley Cup in 1926.  At its inception, the NHL had four teams, all in Canada, thus the adjective "National" in the league's name. The league expanded to the United States in 1924, when the Boston Bruins joined, and has since consisted of both American and Canadian teams. From 1942 to 1967, the league had only six teams, collectively (if not contemporaneously) nicknamed the "Original Six". The NHL added six new teams to double its size at the 1967 NHL expansion. The league then increased to 18 teams by 1974 and 21 teams in 1979. Between 1991 and 2000 the NHL further expanded to 30 teams. It added its 31st and 32nd teams in 2017 and 2021, respectively.  The league's headquarters have been in Midtown Manhattan since 1989, when the head office moved from Montreal. There have been four league-wide work stoppages in NHL history, all occurring after 1992. The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) considers the Stanley Cup to be one of the "most important championships available to the sport". The NHL draws many highly skilled players from all over the world and currently has players from approximately 20 countries. Canadians have historically constituted the majority of the players in the league, with an increasing percentage of American and European players in recent seasons.  The Montreal Canadiens have the most NHL titles with 24 (including 23 Stanley Cup championships since entering the league). Entering the 2022–23 season, the Colorado Avalanche, who defeated the Tampa Bay Lightning 4–2 in the 2022 Stanley Cup Finals, are the reigning league champions.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP] List of Montreal Canadiens head coaches  Officially known as "le Club de hockey Canadien", the Montreal Canadiens () are a Canadian professional ice hockey team based in Montreal, Quebec. They play in the Atlantic Division of the Eastern Conference in the National Hockey League (NHL). In 1909, the Canadiens were founded as a charter member of the National Hockey Association (NHA). In 1917, the franchise joined the NHL, and is one of the Original Six teams. In their 100-year history, the Canadiens have won 24 Stanley Cup championships, and are the last Canadian team to have won the Stanley Cup, having done so in 1993. The Canadiens are owned by the Molson Family. The general manager position is filled by Kent Hughes while their coaches consist of Martin St. Louis as their head coach, Alexandre Burrows, Trevor Letowski, and Stephane Robidas as assistant coaches, and Eric Raymond as the goaltender coach. The current captain of the Canadiens is Nick Suzuki.  There have been 28 head coaches for the Canadiens franchise in the NHL. The team's first head coach in the NHL was Newsy Lalonde, who coached the Canadiens for eight NHL seasons in two stints. Although Dick Irvin coached the team for 15 seasons, Toe Blake, who coached two fewer seasons, is the franchise's all-time leader for the most regular-season games coached (914), the most regular-season games won (500), the most regular-season points (1159), the most playoff games coached (119), and the most playoff games won (82). Blake has also won the most Stanley Cup championships with eight; Scotty Bowman has won five, Irvin has won three, Cecil Hart has won two, and Leo Dandurand, Claude Ruel, Al MacNeil, Jean Perron, and Jacques Demers have won one each. Lalonde won a Stanley Cup championship in 1915–16 while in the NHA.<ref name="cup"/> Bowman and Pat Burns have each been awarded the Jack Adams Award, in 1976–77 and 1988–89 respectively. Nine head coaches have spent their entire NHL head coaching careers with the Canadiens. Bowman and Dandurand have been elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame as builders. Dandurand is the only coach to have spent his entire NHL head coaching career with the Canadiens and to have been elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame as a builder.
What sport does Julián Lalinde play? [SEP] Wynonna Earp (TV series)  Wynonna Earp ( ) is a supernatural Western horror television series. Developed by Emily Andras, the Canadian-American program is based on the comic book series by Beau Smith. In the series, Wynonna returns to her hometown of Purgatory, near the Canadian Rockies, where she battles revenants, the reincarnated outlaws that Wyatt killed.  Syfy acquired United States rights for "Wynonna Earp" and ordered a 13-episode season in 2015"," premiering it on April 1, 2016. The series premiered in Canada on CHCH-DT on April 4. Viacom International Media Networks acquired the rights to broadcast "Wynonna Earp" on its multinational Spike channels in July 2016. On February 5, 2021, Syfy announced that the fourth season would be the last, with the remaining episodes starting on March 5, 2021.<ref name=HRSyFyend /><ref name=MitovichSyFyend /> The series, however, was not officially cancelled by CTV Sci-Fi Channel.<ref name=StoneSyfy4 />  Critical response to the series was positive. "E! Entertainment Television" named "Wynonna Earp" the "Best New Show" of 2016.<ref name=Piester /> It was chosen by "Variety" as one of the 20 best new series of 2016.<ref name=Ryan2016 /> In its annual "Best of TV" highlight, "Collider" named "Wynonna Earp" the "Best New Sci-Fi" show of 2016.<ref name=Radish /> Maureen Ryan of "Variety" named "Wynonna Earp" one of the best television shows of 2017.<ref name=Ryan2017 />
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]  Diego began his football career at his home town team Toluca in 2010. He progressed through the ranks having successful seasons with the affiliate teams until he was called up to the senior team in 2014. He made his first appearance with the first team August 6, 2014 in a Cup match against Mérida coming in as a substitute for Carlos Esquivel at half time, the match ended in a 1-1 draw, with Gama disputing 45' minutes of the game. Four days later he made his league debut with Toluca on August 10, 2014 under coach José Cardozo against Leones Negros coming in as a substitute for Lucas Lobos in the 74' minute of the game, the match ended in a 0-0 draw, with Gama participating in 16 minutes of the game.
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]  On January 2021, he announced his retirement from playing football at professional level due to a knee injury.
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]  On his under-20 world cup debut in the 2015 tournament, Diego Gama was sent off in the game for an off-the-ball incident. Mexico lost the match 2-0 to Mali.
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]  He was called up by Óscar Tabárez to the Uruguayan Olympic football team that finished ninth at the 2012 Summer Olympics, held in London, Great Britain.
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]  He is the twin brother of the professional footballer Luis Felipe Díaz. They have played for the same football club four times: Curicó Unido (2013–17), Palestino (2017), Deportes Recoleta (2019) and Independiente de Cauquenes (2021).
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP] List of people from the Dominican Republic  This is a list of famous or notable people from the Dominican Republic. The list also includes individuals of Dominican ancestry who reside overseas.
What sport does Diego Díaz Garrido play? [SEP]
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]  Vladislav Ivanovich Matviyenko (Владислав Иванович Матвиенко; born 27 September 1967) is a Russian professional football coach and a former player. As a player, he made his professional debut in the Soviet Second League in 1989 for FC Okean Nakhodka.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]  He played in the Russian Football National League for FC Zvezda Irkutsk in 2008.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]  Yaroslav Yuryevich Matviyenko (Ярослав Юрьевич Матвиенко; born 22 March 1998) is a Russian football player. He plays for Armenian club FC Noah.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]  Evgeny Yuryevich Matveev (Евгений Юрьевич Матвеев) (born Penza, 15 April 1984) is a Russian rugby union player. He plays as a hooker and as a flanker. He plays for VVA Saracens. He has 55 caps for Russia, since 2007, with 10 tries scored, 50 points on aggregate. He was called for the 2011 Rugby World Cup, playing in two games and without scoring. He was a regular player in the Russia side that qualified for the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]  Ihor Matviyenko (born May 17, 1971 in Dnipropetrovsk, Ukrainian SSR) is a Ukrainian sailor and Olympic champion. He won a gold medal in the 470 Class at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, together with Yevhen Braslavets. He also competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics and the 2004 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP]
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP] Ukrainians in Russia  Ukrainians in Russia make up the largest single diaspora group of the Ukrainian people. The 2010 Russian census identified 1.9 million Ukrainians living in Russia, representing over 1.4% of the total population of the Russian Federation and comprising the third-largest ethnic group after ethnic Russians and Tatars. An estimated 340,000 people born in Ukraine, mostly young people, permanently settled legally in Russia each year as of 2016.  In February 2014, there were 1.6 million Ukrainian citizens in the territory of Russia, two-thirds of the labour migrants; however, after Russia annexed Crimea and the start of the War in Donbas, the number was estimated to have risen to 2.5 million . Over 420,000 asylum-seekers from Ukraine had registered in Russia .<ref name=":1" /> An estimated 2.8 million Ukrainians had arrived in Russia as of September 2022 since the start of the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.<ref name="UNHCR-numbers"/>
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP] United Russia  United Russia () is a Russian conservative political party. As the largest party in Russia, it holds 325 (or 72.22%) of the 450 seats in the State Duma , having constituted the majority in the chamber since 2007. The party was formed in December 2001 through a merger of Unity, Fatherland – All Russia and the Agrarian Party of Russia.  United Russia supports the policies of incumbent president Vladimir Putin, who previously served as party leader during the presidency of Dmitry Medvedev; despite not currently being the official leader or a member of the party, Putin operates as its "de facto" leader. The party peaked in the 2007 Russian legislative election with 64.3% of the vote, while in recent years it has seen its popularity decline. The party's ideology has been inconsistent but embraces specific politicians and officials, who hold a variety of political views, who support Putin. The party appeals mainly to pro-Putin and non-ideological voters, and is often classified by political scientists as a "big-tent party", or as a "party of power". In 2009, it proclaimed Russian conservatism as its official ideology.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP] FC Dynamo Kyiv  Football Club Dynamo Kyiv (, ) is a Ukrainian professional football club based in Kyiv. Founded in 1927 as a Kyivan football team of republican branch of the bigger Soviet Dynamo Sports Society, the club as a separate business entity was officially formed only in 1989 and currently plays in the Ukrainian Premier League, and has never been relegated to a lower division. The club has secured brand rights from the Ukrainian Dynamo society and has no direct relations to the sports society since 1989. Their home is the 70,050 capacity Olimpiyskiy National Sports Complex.  Since 1936, Dynamo Kyiv has spent its entire history in the top league of Soviet and later Ukrainian football. Its most successful periods are associated with Valeriy Lobanovskyi, who coached the team during three stints, leading them to numerous domestic and European titles. In 1961, the club became first-ever in the history of Soviet football that managed to overcome the total hegemony of Moscow-based clubs in the Soviet Top League. The Spartak Moscow–Dynamo Kyiv rivalry that began in the mid-1970s, is widely considered to have been one of the most exciting football rivalries in the Soviet Union. Since becoming the first Soviet football club to participate in UEFA competition in 1965, Dynamo Kyiv has played in European competitions almost every season.  Over its history, Dynamo Kyiv have won 16 Ukrainian top-flight league titles, 13 Soviet top-flight league titles, 11 Ukrainian national cup competitions, 9 Soviet national cup competitions, and three continental titles (including two UEFA Cup Winners' Cups). Its two European Cup Winners' Cups make it one of the only two Soviet clubs to have won a UEFA trophy, the other being Dinamo Tbilisi. The Dynamo Kyiv first team became a base team for the Soviet Union national football team in the 1970–1980s and the Ukraine national football team in the 1990–2000s. The two stars on the club's crest each signify 10 top-flight seasons Dynamo Kyiv won.
What sport does Vladislav Matviyenko play? [SEP] List of people from Ukraine  This is a list of individuals who were born and lived in territories located in present-day Ukraine, including ethnic Ukrainians and those of other ethnicities.
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP]  Vyacheslav Yuryevich Chadov (Вячеслав Юрьевич Чадов; born 26 September 1986) is a Russian professional football player. He plays for FC TSK Simferopol.
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] Vyacheslav Atavin (born 1967), Soviet and Russian handball player who has won gold medals at European and World Championships and at the Olympic Games ; Vyacheslav Chukanov (born 1952), Olympic Gold Medalist in show jumping with the Soviet Union ; Vyacheslav Denisov (born 1983), Uzbek basketball player who is a member of the Uzbekistan national team and made his debut at the 2009 FIBA Asia Championships ; Vyacheslav Domani (born 1947), Russian Olympic volleyball player who won a bronze medal competing for the Soviet Union ; Vyacheslav Dryagin (born 1940), Russian Winter Olympic skier and World Championships bronze medalist who competed for the Soviet Union ; Vyacheslav Dubinin, runner up in the Individual Ice Racing World Championship in 1966 and 1967 ; Vyacheslav
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP]  ice hockey player ; Vyacheslav Fetisov (born 1958), Russian ice hockey player (1977–1998) and dual Winter Olympics Gold Medallist who was the inaugural Chairman of the WADA Athlete Committee ; Vyacheslav Kozlov (born 1972), Russian ice hockey player (since 1987) and two-time Stanley Cup champion (1997, 1998) with the Detroit Red Wings ; Vyacheslav Kulemin, Russian ice hockey player ; Vyacheslav Litovchenko, Russian ice hockey player ; Vyacheslav Starshinov (born 1940), Russian ice hockey player who played in the Soviet Hockey League and has been inducted into the International Ice Hockey Federation Hall of Fame ; Vyacheslav Voynov (born 1990), Russian ice hockey player
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP]  He played 8 seasons in the Russian Football National League for 6 different clubs. On 4 January 2016, Chadov left FC Yenisey Krasnoyarsk by mutual consent.
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] Vyacheslav Ambartsumyan (1940–2008), Russian football player (senior career 1959–1972) and coach (1973–1987) who played 2 matches for the USSR national team ; Vyacheslav Amin (born 1976), Kyrgyzstani football player (senior career from 1994) and member of the Kyrgyzstan national football team (from 2000) ; Vyacheslav Andreyuk (1945–2010), Russian-born Soviet football player (senior career 1963–1969) who twice played for the USSR national team ; Vyacheslav Bazylevych (born 1990), Ukrainian football player (senior career since 2007) ; Vyacheslav Chadov (born 1986), Russian football player (senior career since 2005) ; Vyacheslav Chanov (born 1951), Russian football player (senior career 1969–1993) and current coach ; Vyacheslav Checher (born 1980), Ukrainian football player (senior career since 2000)
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] Vyacheslav  Vyacheslav, also transliterated Viacheslav or Viatcheslav ( ; ), is a Russian and Ukrainian masculine given name. It is the equivalent of Belarusian Вячаслаў/Вацлаў (transliterated "Viačasłaŭ/Vacłaŭ", or "Viachaslau/Vaclau"), Croatian "Vjenceslav", Czech "Václav" and Polish "Wacław" and Wieńczysław, which is Latinised as "Wenceslaus".  It is a Slavic dithematic name (that is, composed of two lexemes) derived from the Slavic words "vyache", "great(er)", and "slava", "glory, fame". A common short form is "Slava".
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] On the Nameless Height  On the Nameless Height () also known in English as "On an Unnamed Hill" and "Unidentified Heights", is a Russian-Belarusian 2004 television film in four parts, set in 1944 in the Second World War.
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] List of reality television show franchises (A–G)  The following is a list of reality television show franchises that have become franchises with production of local versions around the world, from A through G.
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] his travel abroad. Upon his death, his father's body was repatriated to Vivnya, Lviv Oblast. Andrei Nikolishin Andrei Vasilievich Nikolishin (; born March 25, 1973) is a Russian former professional ice hockey player who last played for Sokil Kyiv of the Professional Hockey League of Ukraine. Over his National Hockey League career with the Hartford Whalers, Washington Capitals, Chicago Blackhawks and the Colorado Avalanche he played in 628 games, with 93 goals and 280 points. Nikolishin began his professional career with HC Dynamo Moscow. He played for four years domestically in Russia and was named Russian player of the Year
What sport does Vyacheslav Chadov play? [SEP] international level with Russia's under-18 Team at the 2012 IIHF World U18 Championships in the Czech Republic. He played in all 6 games for Russia on the blueline on way to a 5th-place finish. Mironov, represented Russia at the 2013 and 2014 World Junior Championships, helping his native country earn a bronze medal at both events while contributing six points in 14 contests. As a 20-year-old, Mironov was the youngest player selected to the Team Russia for the 2015 IIHF World Championship. Mironov made his senior debut in the third group stage game in a 4–2 defeat against the United
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP]  Koumiba Djossouvi (born November 2, 1982) is a French female rugby union player. She represented at the 2014 Women's Rugby World Cup. She was a member of the squad that won their fourth Six Nations title in 2014. Djossouvi played at the 2013 Rugby World Cup Sevens.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP]  Kousso is a youth exponent from 1860 Munich, who mainly played for the second team. After his contract was not extended in 2014 he signed with city rival Bayern Munich II. Only after a year, he left Bayern Munich II again. After one year without a club, he returned to 1860 Munich II again in 2016.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP]  Born in Domont, France, Djidonou has played club football for Racing Paris, L'Entente SSG, Red Star 93, Libourne, Racing Paris and Mulhouse. He most recently signed for Championnat National 2 side SO Romorantin in June 2013.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP]  Kouadio started playing basketball with CO Descartes. He also joined the Basketball Without Borders Africa camp in 2018. Kouadio later played for the LaBase Academy in Abidjan. In August 2020, Kouadio was announced to be part of the incoming class of the Daytona State College basketball team. In 2021, he returned to Ivory Coast to play for Abidjan Azur in the Ivorian Basketball Championship.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP]  He has played in 2001 for the Kansas Jayhawks, 2002 between 2004 for Newman Jets and from 2005 to 2008 for Hollywood Way (California State). His nickname is 'Denis American'.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP] Koumiba Djossouvi  Koumiba Djossouvi (born November 2, 1982) is a French female rugby union player. She represented at the 2014 Women's Rugby World Cup. She was a member of the squad that won their fourth Six Nations title in 2014.  Djossouvi played at the 2013 Rugby World Cup Sevens.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP] 2010 FIRA Women's European Trophy  The 2010 FIRA tournament included all the continent's major teams who did not qualify for the World Cup, plus Sweden (who did qualify) and a France "A" team. Prior to the tournament Jean-Claude Baqué, Chairman of the FIRA-AER, explained the philosophy of the European Trophy. "The European Trophy is an important tournament for the development of women 15's rugby within Europe. The European Championship takes place each four years (Note: next edition in 2012) but the FIRA-AER must propose games to emerging unions through a serious competition and with the help of the big nations" Unusually, and for no published reason, all games were only 35 minutes per half.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP] 2014 Women's Six Nations Championship  The 2014 Women's Six Nations Championship, also known as the 2014 RBS Women's Six Nations due to the tournament's sponsorship by the Royal Bank of Scotland, was the 13th series of the Women's Six Nations Championship, an annual women's rugby union competition between six European rugby union national teams. Matches were held in February and March 2014, on the same weekends as the men's tournament, if not always the same day.  The championship was contested by England, France, Ireland, Italy, Scotland and Wales.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP] 2014 Women's Rugby World Cup squads  This article lists the official squads for the 2014 Women's Rugby World Cup in France.
What sport does Koumiba Djossouvi play? [SEP] Mamadou Diarra Mamadou Diarra (born August 29, 1986) is a Malian basketball player who currently plays for Malabo Kings of the D-1 league of Equatorial Guinea. Standing at , he plays at the center position. Mamadou Diarra is a talented player with great athletic skills. Possessing a 7'6" wingspan and the size to make him a force in the middle, he also has a good shot from 4–5 meters, can run the floor, and has a variety of low-post moves. In 2006, Diarra moved to the United States, where he enrolled at Stoneridge Preparatory School in Simi Valley, California. Later,
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]  The 2010–11 South West Peninsula League season was the fourth in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One. The champions for the second season in succession were Buckland Athletic.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]  The 2009–10 South West Peninsula League season was the third in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One. The champions for the first time in their history were Buckland Athletic.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]  The 2011–12 South West Peninsula League season was the fifth in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One. Bodmin Town won the league for the third time, but did not apply for promotion. Buckland Athletic did apply, and were accepted into the Premier Division of the Western League.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]  The 2008–09 South West Peninsula League season was the second in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One. The champions for the second season running were Bodmin Town.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]  The Division One West featured 16 teams which had played in other leagues the previous season. Nine were from the South Western League: Callington Town, Goonhavern Athletic, Millbrook, Newquay, Penryn Athletic, Penzance, Porthleven, St Austell and Wadebridge Town. Three were from the Cornwall Combination: Hayle, Mousehole and Wendron CC United. Three were from the East Cornwall League: Camelford, Dobwalls and Foxhole Stars. One was from the Devon County League: Vospers Oak Villa.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP] 2010–11 South West Peninsula League  The 2010–11 South West Peninsula League season was the fourth in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One.  The champions for the second season in succession were Buckland Athletic.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP] 2011–12 South West Peninsula League  The 2011–12 South West Peninsula League season was the fifth in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One.  Bodmin Town won the league for the third time, but did not apply for promotion. Buckland Athletic did apply, and were accepted into the Premier Division of the Western League.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP]
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP] 2009–10 South West Peninsula League  The 2009–10 South West Peninsula League season was the third in the history of the South West Peninsula League, a football competition in England, that feeds the Premier Division of the Western Football League. The league had been formed in 2007 from the merger of the Devon County League and the South Western League, and is restricted to clubs based in Cornwall and Devon. The Premier Division of the South West Peninsula League is on the same level of the National League System as the Western League Division One.  The champions for the first time in their history were Buckland Athletic.
What sport does 2010–11 South West Peninsula League play? [SEP] List of football clubs in England  This is a list of football clubs that compete within the leagues and divisions of the (English football league system) as far down as Level 10, that is to say, six divisions below the English Football League. Also included are clubs from outside England that play within the English system (suitably highlighted). The relative levels of divisions can be compared on the English football league system page.  Below these are the Regional Feeders:
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]  Robert Braet (11 February 1912, in Bruges – 23 February 1987, in Bruges) was a tall Belgian goalkeeper. He never played for any other football team besides Cercle Brugge. Braet is seen as one of the biggest monuments in the team's history. He was also part of the Belgian national team that took part in the 1938 FIFA World Cup.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]  Robert Braber (born 9 November 1982) is a Dutch football manager and former player who played as a midfielder. He is the head coach of Tweede Klasse club RBC.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]  Robert Jan Havekotte (born January 25, 1967 in De Bilt) is a retired water polo player from the Netherlands, who finished in ninth position with the Dutch team at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. As of 2008 he is a board member at UNIBA Partners, an independent network of insurance brokers.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]  driver ; Robert Lewandowski, Polish football player who plays as a striker for Bayern Munich and is the captain of the Poland national team ; Roberto López Ufarte, Basque former footballer ; Roberto Mancini, Italian football manager and former player who is the manager of the Italy national team ; Robert "Bob" McNamara, American baseball player ; Robert Alexander Michel Melki (born 1992), Swedish-Lebanese footballer ; Robert Mühren, Dutch professional footballer ; Robert Person (born 1969), American baseball player ; Robert "Bobby" Orr, Canadian former professional ice hockey player, widely acknowledged as one of the greatest of all time ; Robert Remus, American professional wrestler known as Sgt. Slaughter ; Robert "Rob" Terry, Welsh professional wrestler and bodybuilder ; Robert Whittaker, New Zealand-born Australian professional mixed martial artist ; Robert Wickens, Canadian racing driver
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]  Robert Braknis (born January 8, 1973) is a Canadian former competition swimmer, who competed for his native country at the 1996 Summer Olympics. There he finished in 16th position in the 100-metre backstroke, and in twelfth place with the men's relay team in the 4x100-medley. Braknis set the Canadian and Commonwealth record in the 50-metre backstroke in 1994. Braknis is a graduate of Florida State University where he was a 7-time All-American and the Atlantic Coast Conference Swimmer of the Year in 1995. He was also a torch-bearer for the 2010 Winter Olympics torch relay. He is currently employed as a police officer for the Peel Regional Police in Brampton, Ontario.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP] Cercle Brugge K.S.V.  Cercle Brugge Koninklijke Sportvereniging () is a Belgian professional football club based in Bruges. Cercle have played in the Belgian Pro League since the 2003–04 season, having previously spent several years in the Belgian Second Division following relegation in 1997. Their matricule is the n°12. The club plays home games at the Jan Breydel Stadium, which they share with fierce rivals Club Brugge. Cercle Brugge won their first national title in 1911, and won two more titles (in 1927 and 1930) before the Second World War. The side also won the Belgian Cup in 1927 and in 1985, and have represented Belgium in European tournaments on several occasions. Since 2017, they have been owned by AS Monaco.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP] 2005–06 Iowa State Cyclones men's basketball team  The 2005–06 Iowa State Cyclones men's basketball team represents Iowa State University during the 2005–06 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Cyclones were coached by Wayne Morgan, who was in his 3rd season. They played their home games at Hilton Coliseum in Ames, Iowa and competed in the Big 12 Conference.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP] 2004–05 Iowa State Cyclones men's basketball team  The 2004–05 Iowa State Cyclones men's basketball team represents Iowa State University during the 2004–05 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Cyclones were coached by Wayne Morgan, who was in his 2nd season. They played their home games at Hilton Coliseum in Ames, Iowa, and competed in the Big 12 Conference.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP] 1938 FIFA World Cup squads  Below are the squads for the 1938 FIFA World Cup final tournament in France.  Hungary and Switzerland were the only teams who had players from foreign clubs. All the three such players represented French clubs.  Nine selected players by Germany came from the qualified but not participating Austria due to Anschluss.  Rosters include reserves, alternates, and preselected players that may have participated in qualifiers and/or pre-tournament friendlies but not in the finals themselves.
What sport does Robert Braet play? [SEP]
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]  Dr Siegfried Pfeiffer (19 October 188315 February 1959) was a Swiss international footballer. He played mainly as striker, but also as midfielder. Between the years 1899 und 1908 Pfeiffer played a total of 72 games for FC Basel scoring a total of 28 goals. He was also member of the FC Basel board of directors. He presided the club's board during the 1907–08 season. He also played for the Swiss national team. On 5 April 1908 Pfeiffer scored two goals in the legendary 5–3 victory over Germany at the Landhof in Basel. This was the first national team game for the Germans.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]  he assisted with the development of the Lions Club Learn-to-Swim Program at the Municipal Pool. A steady defender in his own end, blueliner Walter Kalbfleish played in four cities during his brief NHL career in the 1930s. He was a part of history because he played on three defunct teams—the original Ottawa Senators, the St. Louis Eagles, and the New York Americans. Born in New Hamburg, Ontario, the man known as "Jake" played two years each with the Niagara Falls Cataracts junior and senior clubs. He was signed as a free agent with the Ottawa Senators and played 22 games in 1933-34. The next
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]  Waldemar Herbert "Walter" Pfeiffer (15 May 1892 – 11 May 1950), listed by one source as William Pfeiffer, was a South Australian rower. He was a three-time national champion who represented Australia at the 1924 Summer Olympics in the men's eight.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]  While playing high school ball at Masten Park High, now City Honors School, in Buffalo, New York, he led his team to three consecutive Harvard Cup championships, which denoted Buffalo city champions. Upon graduation, Koppisch went on to star at Columbia University, where he captained the Lions for three seasons. While playing Columbia's backfield, Koppisch was teammates with, future New York Yankee, Lou Gehrig. In 1924 he was received All-American honors by Walter Camp.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]  Walter Dürst (born June 4, 1950) is a retired Swiss professional ice hockey forward who last played for HC Davos in the National League A. He also represented the Swiss national team at the 1976 Winter Olympics.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP] Walter M. Williams High School  Walter M. Williams High School, the flagship school of the Alamance-Burlington School System, is a high school (grades 9–12) in Burlington, North Carolina, United States. It was named in honor of philanthropist, industrialist, and former Burlington City Schools chairman Walter M. Williams. The school entered its eighth decade of operation in the 2022 school year.  It has been recognized by the United States Department of Education as one of the top six high schools in North Carolina, and received the Blue Ribbon School designation in 1993. As of 2008, 30% of the staff held advanced degrees, and eleven staff members held national board teacher certification.  The school has been recognized by the nearby Ramada Inn Convention Center, where a meeting room is named for the high school (the only high school in the district to be so honored) while all other meeting rooms are named for prominent North Carolina colleges and universities. In addition, the popular Mayberry restaurant across the street is a favorite student hangout and has several items on its menu named in honor of the school's mascot. Artwork by Williams students hangs in the McDonald's on Huffman Mill Road.  The campus is bordered on the north by Sunset Drive and Parkview Drive, to the east by Arlington Avenue, to the southeast by South Church Street (on which street the campus actually has its address), to the south by Country Club Drive (an homage to the property being the former site of a country club), and to the west by Tarleton Avenue. Bulldog Alley, a north–south private campus street, intersects the campus with athletic facilities to the west and academic facilities to the east.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP]
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP] List of German Argentines  German Argentines (in Spanish referred as "germano argentinos") are made up of Argentines of German descent, as well as Germans who became Argentine citizens.  Please, note that ethnic Germans not only lived within the German borders of their time, but there were many communities of ethnic Germans living in other parts of Europe, especially before WWII. The German language and culture have traditionally been more important than the country of origin, as the basis of the ethnic and national consciousness of the Germans (Germany as a political entity was founded as late as 1871). Therefore, the political places from which these people or their ascendants emigrated to Argentina may vary. For example, Volga Germans arrived from the Russian Empire, most of Danube Swabians did it from the Austro-Hungarian Empire (today Hungary, Romania, etc.), etc. Likewise, there are multi-ethnic European states such as Switzerland, which has a German Swiss population with their own German language, while French and Italian-speaking citizens inhabit other regions of the country, retaining their differences even today. Austrians, on the other hand, were historically regarded as ethnic Germans and viewed themselves as such. As can be seen, the large population of German ethnicity occupied an area of several present-day countries. Citizenship is the mere legal condition of belonging to one state or another, while nationality or ethnicity is related to anthropological and sociological aspects and thus has an extraterritorial character.  The following is a non-exhaustive list of some notable German Argentines. In it, German surnames abound. However, an amount several times this number is estimated for notable Argentines of partial German descent who do not have German surnames.
What sport does Walter Pfeiffer play? [SEP] Sleepless in Seattle  Sleepless in Seattle is a 1993 American romantic comedy-drama film directed by Nora Ephron, from a screenplay she wrote with David S. Ward and Jeff Arch. Starring Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan, the film follows a journalist (Ryan) who, despite being newly engaged, becomes enamored with a recently widowed architect (Hanks), when the latter's son calls in to a talk radio program requesting a new partner for his grieving father. In addition to Bill Pullman, Ross Malinger, and Rob Reiner, the film features an ensemble supporting cast also consisting of Rosie O'Donnell, Gaby Hoffman, Victor Garber, Rita Wilson, Barbara Garrick, and Carey Lowell.  Inspired by the romance film "An Affair to Remember" (1957), "Sleepless in Seattle" was conceived as a romantic drama by Arch in 1989. Several studios rejected his script, deterred by the idea that its main couple does not meet for nearly the entire film. Arch submitted his script to producer Gary Foster in 1990. Foster strongly believed in the film's potential but struggled to get it made by TriStar Pictures for several years, finding its emotional script promising but unsophisticated. Ward and Ephron were among several writers hired to re-write the script into a funnier film, with Ephron eventually being promoted to director once Nick Castle departed over disagreeing with her comedic approach. Although both Hanks and Ryan had been favored for the lead roles from the beginning, several other actors expressed interest in both parts, while Hanks often disagreed with Ephron over his character's material. The film was shot mostly in Seattle during the summer of 1992. Several of its most pivotal scenes were filmed on a former naval base due to the city's lack of sound stages, including a recreation of the Empire State Building's observation deck when the New York skyscraper was not available.  "Sleepless in Seattle" was released on June 25, 1993, to positive reviews, receiving praise for Ephron's writing and direction, as well as Hanks and Ryan's performances. The film was nominated for two Academy Awards at the 1994 ceremony: Best Original Screenplay and Best Original Song. Despite competition from several blockbusters released around that same summer, the film was a surprise commercial success, earning $17 million during its opening weekend (the highest opening for a romantic comedy at the time), and ultimately grossing over $227 million worldwide.<ref name="mojo" /> It was one of the highest-grossing films of 1993, and remains one of the most successful romantic comedies in box office history. The soundtrack was also successful, peaking at number one on the "Billboard" 200.  Several critics and media publications agree that "Sleepless in Seattle" is one of the greatest romantic comedy films of all-time. The film is also credited with establishing Ephron as a celebrated romantic comedy filmmaker.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP]  Archibald Needham (2 August 1881 – 1950) was an English footballer, who played for Crystal Palace in a variety of positions.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP]  Born in Sheffield, Needham played professionally for Sheffield United but unlike his namesake (relative?) Ernest Needham he was not a regular first team player. In 1905 he joined new club Crystal Palace, and was the club's top scorer in their first season, playing in the Southern League Division Two. Needham was a versatile player, and played in almost every position save for goalkeeper whilst at Palace. On 21 January 1909, he scored a memorable goal against Football League side Wolves in an FA Cup first round replay. In the dying minutes of extra time, Fred Fountain wrote of the goal in the Croydon Advertiser in 1946: "...he simply weaved his way through all the players and dribbled it right up to the Wolves' goal, putting in an unstoppable shot." Writing in The Penny Illustrated Paper, John Cameron called Needham "The brilliant Crystal Palace 'utility man'."
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP]  Archibald "Archie" Stinchcombe (17 November 1912 – 3 November 1994) was an English ice hockey player from Cudworth near Barnsley, Yorkshire. The right-winger is best known for representing Britain at the international level, including at the 1936 and 1948 Winter Olympics. Stinchcombe was somewhat of a novelty among hockey players in that his vision was limited - he could only see out of one eye, and yet was able to enjoy an extremely successful career.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP]  Needham has played for the following minor league teams during his career: Grand Rapids Rockets, Valleyfield Braves, Glace Bay Miners, New Westminster Royals, North Bay Trappers, Toledo Hornets and Cleveland Barons. He holds the franchise record of most games played for the Cleveland Barons, a total of 981, where he spent 15 seasons of his career. In this span, Needham scored 62 goals and 246 assists.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP]  Eric Laurence Needham (7 June 1913 – 8 May 2000) was an Australian rules footballer who played with St Kilda in the Victorian Football League (VFL).
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP] Jackie Gleason  John Herbert Gleason (February 26, 1916June 24, 1987) was an American actor, comedian, writer, composer, and conductor known affectionately as "The Great One."<ref name="great"/> Developing a style and characters from growing up in Brooklyn, New York, he was known for his brash visual and verbal comedy, exemplified by his city-bus-driver character Ralph Kramden in the television series "The Honeymooners". He also developed "The Jackie Gleason Show," which maintained high ratings from the mid 1950s through 1970. After originating in New York City, filming moved to Miami Beach, Florida, in 1964 after Gleason took up permanent residence there.  Among his notable film roles were Minnesota Fats in 1961's "The Hustler" (co-starring with Paul Newman) and Buford T. Justice in the "Smokey and the Bandit" series from 1977 to 1983 (co-starring Burt Reynolds).  Gleason enjoyed a prominent secondary music career during the 1950s and 1960s, producing a series of best-selling "mood music" albums. His first album, "Music for Lovers Only", still holds the record for the longest stay on the Billboard Top Ten Charts (153 weeks), and his first 10 albums sold over a million copies each. His output spans some 20-plus singles, nearly 60 long-playing record albums, and over 40 CDs.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP] Needham Market F.C.  Needham Market Football Club is a football club based in Needham Market, Suffolk, England. They are currently members of the and play at Bloomfields.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP] Parade All-America Boys Basketball Team  The "Parade" All-America Boys Basketball Team was an annual selection by "Parade" that nationally honored the top high school boys' basketball players in the United States. It was part of the "Parade" All-American series that originated with boys basketball before branching to other sports. Started by the Sunday magazine in 1957, it had been the longest ongoing selection of high school basketball All-Americans in the country at the time of its final selections in 2015. Many of the honorees went on to star as college and professional basketball players.  At its onset, the selections were handled by a New York-based public relations firm, Publicity Enterprises, which was led by Haskell Cohen, who was a former sportswriter as well as the publicity director for the NBA at the time (1950–1969). The first All-America team in 1957 consisted of three five-player teams, and the first-team selections appeared on television on "The Steve Allen Show". The following year, 20 players were selected and participated in the first annual "Parade" All-American high school game. Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, known then as Lew Alcindor, became the first sophomore in 1963 to be named a "Parade" All-American. Fifteen years later, Earl Jones became the next sophomore to earn first-team honors, and subsequently joined Abdul-Jabbar as the first two players to be named to the first team on three occasions. "It was a real thrill for me to make it on the "Parade" list early, when I was just a sophomore. The recognition is a great thing for kids to shoot for," said Abdul-Jabbar as part of the announcement for the 2000 team.  Starting in 2011, the selections were compiled in conjunction with "Sporting News" and their writer, Brian McLaughlin. Candidates also began to be limited to players in their senior year. McLaughlin described the selections as mostly Division I college-bound players that had a stellar senior year in high school. Additionally, "Parade" differentiated itself from most other All-American teams by not focusing solely on a player's standing among college recruiters. For example, some selectors might choose top recruits that had been injured much of their senior year. "Parade" discontinued its boys' basketball All-America selections after 2015.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP] Newcastle United F.C. 0–1 Crystal Palace F.C. (1907)  Newcastle United v Crystal Palace was a football match played on 12 January 1907 at St James' Park, Newcastle. The match was an FA Cup First Round match. The result, a 1–0 victory for Crystal Palace, is notable for being one of the greatest shocks of all time in the history of the FA Cup.  The home team, Newcastle United, played in the Football League First Division, the highest level of English football at that time. They had been in the FA Cup final for the previous two seasons and had won the First Division title as recently as 1904–05. They had also maintained an unbeaten at home record which had started on 25 November 1905. Crystal Palace were a non-league side formed the previous year who were playing in the Southern League.
What sport does Archie Needham play? [SEP] List of gay characters in television  This is a list of live action gay characters in television (includes TV movies and web series). The orientation can be portrayed on-screen, described in the dialogue or mentioned. Roles include lead, main, recurring, supporting, and guest.  The names are organized in alphabetical order by the surname (i.e. last name), or by a single name if the character does not have a surname. Some naming customs write the family name first followed by the given name; in these cases, the names in the list appear under the family name (e.g. the name Jung Seo-hyun [Korean] is organized alphabetically under "J").
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP]  The 2010–2011 season was the 24th campaign of the British Basketball League since the league's establishment in 1987. This season saw the league reduced to 12 teams with the withdrawal of London Capital during the summer and was the first campaign ever to not feature a club from the capital city London. Unlike previous seasons the Trophy schedule usually played in January/February was brought forward, with the reintroduced group stage being played before the start of the regular season. The campaign tipped-off on 17 September 2010 with Plymouth Raiders beating Worthing Thunder 79–77 in the opening game of the Trophy. The regular league season commenced on 10 October, whilst the season closed with the showpiece Play-off Final on 30 April 2011 at the National Indoor Arena in Birmingham. Newly rebranded Mersey Tigers won three out of the four domestic titles on offer, finishing victorious in the Franklin & Marshall Trophy, Championship and post-season Play-offs, whilst missing out on the BBL Cup following a 93–66 loss to Sheffield Sharks in the Final. Mersey's Tony Garbelotto was named as BBL Coach of the Year, whilst Cheshire Jets' Jeremy Bell was awarded the BBL's MVP award.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP]  The 1995–1996 BBL season was known as the Budweiser League for sponsorship reasons. The league featured a total of 13 teams, playing 36 games each. The division retained the same thirteen teams as the previous year after the BBL rejected an application from Crystal Palace who had sealed the National League Division One (the second tier) title. The main change saw the Sunderland Scorpions renamed the Newcastle Comets due to a change of franchise and venue, their new home would be in Gateshead until the newly built Newcastle Arena opened on 18 November. The Manchester Giants also had a new home at the Nynex Arena and the sport was boosted by the return of TV coverage by Sky Sports. London Towers clinched a treble, winning the National Cup, 7 Up Trophy and finishing top of the regular season standings. They were defeated in the Championship Play-off final by Birmingham Bullets.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP]  The 1990–91 English Hockey League season took place from October 1990 until May 1991. The Men's National League was sponsored by Poundstretcher and was won by Havant. The top four teams qualified to take part in the Poundstretcher League Cup tournament which was won by Hounslow. The Women's National League was sponsored by Typhoo and was won by Slough. The Men's Hockey Association Cup was won by Hounslow and the Women's Cup (National Club Championship finals) was won by Sutton Coldfield.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP]  The title sponsored by Sunbrite was won by the Arena Essex Hammers. Hackney withdrew in July, ten matches into the season.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP]  The 2009–2010 season of the British Basketball League (BBL) was the 23rd season since the league's establishment in 1987. The regular season commenced on 25 September 2009, when Milton Keynes Lions claimed the first win of the season with a 94–81 victory in the opening game against Worcester Wolves. A total of 13 teams took to the court including new start-up franchise Essex Pirates, which was founded by Great Britain Under 20s coach Tim Lewis, and a newly rebranded Rocks team carrying the name of the city of Glasgow instead of their previous Scottish Rocks title. The League Championship came down to the final game of the season and was only claimed by Newcastle Eagles after Sheffield Sharks lost their last game, 97–95, to Worthing Thunder. Thunder's Evaldas Zabas' basket four seconds from the end meant that Newcastle had won the League even before taking to the court the following day. Everton Tigers concluded the season with victory in the Play-offs despite being the lowest seed in all of their Play-off encounters. An 80–72 win against Glasgow in the final gave Tigers their first ever Play-off title, only two years after its foundation in 2007.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP] 1990–91 British Basketball League season  The 1990–91 BBL season was the 4th season of the British Basketball League (known as the Carlsberg League for sponsorship reasons) since its establishment in 1987. The season featured a total of nine teams, playing 24 games each. Following a new £1.3 million sponsorship deal with Carlsberg, the sport was unified once more as three divisions of the Carlsberg League were created.<br> Solent Stars dropped out of the top tier and would play their basketball in Division Four. Hemel Hempstead Royals and Worthing Bears returned to top tier action and the Bracknell Tigers became the Thames Valley Tigers.  Kingston claimed the Division One title and Play-off crown, as well as the League Trophy, earning their coach Kevin Cadle and star player Alton Byrd the award's for Coach and Player of the Year respectively. Sunderland claimed the National Cup preventing another Kingston clean sweep.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP] 1989–90 British Basketball League season  The 1989–90 BBL season was the third season of the British Basketball League (known as the Carlsberg League for sponsorship reasons) since its establishment in 1987. The season featured a total of just eight teams, playing 28 games each. Due to the low number of teams, the post-season play-offs featured only the top four teams from the regular season instead of the usual top eight finishers. The future of the league was in the balance due to the waning number of teams. Livingston folded, Crystal Palace and Hemel Hempstead Watford Royals both dropped to the National League and Glasgow Rangers moved back to Kingston. There was small consolation in the formation of a new club called London Docklands (formerly Tower Hamlets) which joined the league.  Kingston completed a clean sweep of all four trophies claiming the title and Play-off crown, as well as the National Cup and NatWest League Trophy. <br> Oldham Celtics secured the second tier league title for a second consecutive year.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP] 1990–91 NBA season  The 1990–91 NBA season was the 45th season of the National Basketball Association. The season ended with the Chicago Bulls winning their first NBA Championship, eliminating the Los Angeles Lakers 4 games to 1 in the NBA Finals.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP] 1991–92 British Basketball League season  The 1991–92 BBL season was the 5th season of the British Basketball League (known as the Carlsberg League for sponsorship reasons) since its establishment in 1987. The season featured an increased number of teams with the additions of the Birmingham Bullets and Cheshire Jets. London Docklands changed their name to London Towers.  Kingston, coached by Kevin Cadle, stormed to success in every domestic competition they entered and completed a clean sweep of the four major competitions, which they had previously accomplished two years earlier. They claimed the Division One title and Play-off crown, were victorious in the League Trophy and the National Cup, whilst Coach Cadle and star player Alton Byrd were awarded as Coach and Player of the Year respectively.
What sport does 1990–91 British Basketball League season play? [SEP] Nick Nurse  Nicholas David Nurse (born July 24, 1967) is an American professional basketball coach, author and former college basketball player. He is the head coach of the Toronto Raptors of the National Basketball Association (NBA) and the Canadian men's national team.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]  Ozren Perić (Serbian Cyrillic: Озрен Перић; born 4 April 1987) is a Bosnian-Herzegovinian footballer who plays for Borac Šamac.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]  Ozren Bonačić (born 5 January 1942 in Zagreb, Croatia) is a former Croatian water polo player and Olympic medalist with the Yugoslavia men's national water polo team. During his club career he played for HAVK Mladost, with which he won four European championship titles. Since 1978 he has been a water polo coach, and he also coached Mladost for many seasons, winning the European championship in 1996. He was most recently the coach of Mladost in the 2008/09 season.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]  Yurtdagülen began her sports career at the age of eleven in Yeşilyurt, and played there in all age categories. In June 2012, she transferred to Galatasaray.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]  Ozren made 4 appearances for Bosnia and Herzegovina (2 unofficial), all of them at the January 2001 Millenium Cup: the match against Bangladesh there marked his international debut and his final international was against Serbia and Montenegro. He was the first player from the autonomous Republika Srpska to wear the colors of the "united" national team of Bosnia and Herzegovina and was deemed a traitor by the Borac fans ons his return.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]  In July 2017, Perić joined FK Tekstilac Derventa. Two years later, he joined FK Alfa Modriča ahead of the 2019/20 season.
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP] List of Serbs  List of Serbs is a list of notable people who are Serbs or of Serb ancestry. The list includes all notable Serbs sorted by occupation and year of birth, regardless of any political, territorial or other divisions, historical or modern.   Igor Paspalj the Best Guitarist in the World for 2020 | The Srpska Times Section::::Artists. Section::::Musicians. Section::::Music performers. Your Electric Guitarist of the Year 2020 winner is Igor Paspalj
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP]
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP] List of foreign football players in Serbia  This is a list of foreign players that play or have played in the top league in football clubs from the territory of Serbia.  In this list are included the foreign players that:  Notes:
What sport does Ozren Perić play? [SEP] List of people by city in Croatia  This is a list of notable people who were born or have lived in various cities in Croatia.
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]  The sport of football in the country of Zanzibar is run by the Zanzibar Football Association. The association administers the national football team, as well as the Zanzibar Premier League.
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]  The Tanzania national under-20 football team is the under-20 youth team for national football in Tanzania. The team is controlled by the Tanzania Football Federation.
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]  In March 2017, Zanzibar were admitted to the Confederation of African Football, becoming eligible for the Africa Cup of Nations. The invitation was rescinded in July when FIFA rules forbade two national teams from one country.
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]  The Zanzibar national football team represents Zanzibar in international football and is controlled by the Zanzibar Football Association.
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]  Zanzibar competed in the Gossage Cup from 1949 to 1967, when the competition was renamed to the East and Central African Senior Challenge Cup:
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP]
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP] Rwanda women's national football team  The Rwanda women's national football team represents Rwanda in women's association football and is controlled by the Rwandese Association Football Federation. It had to date been scheduled to compete in one major tournament, the inaugural Women's Challenge Cup held in Zanzibar in October 2007, but the event was ultimately canceled. It has finally debuted in February 2014 against Kenya. The team is nicknamed "The She-Amavubi" (Kinyarwanda for "The She-Wasps").
What sport does Zanzibar national under-20 football team play? [SEP] Zanzibar  Zanzibar (; ; ) is an insular semi-autonomous province which united with Tanganyika in 1964 to form the United Republic of Tanzania. It is an archipelago in the Indian Ocean, off the coast of the mainland, and consists of many small islands and two large ones: Unguja (the main island, referred to informally as Zanzibar) and Pemba Island. The capital is Zanzibar City, located on the island of Unguja. Its historic centre, Stone Town, is a World Heritage Site.  Zanzibar's main industries are spices, raffia and tourism. In particular, the islands produce cloves, nutmeg, cinnamon, and black pepper. For this reason, the Zanzibar Archipelago, together with Tanzania's Mafia Island, are sometimes referred to locally as the "Spice Islands". Tourism in Zanzibar is a more recent activity, driven by government promotion that caused an increase from 19,000 tourists in 1985, to 376,000 in 2016. The islands are accessible via 5 ports and the Abeid Amani Karume International Airport, which can serve up to 1.5 million passengers per year.<ref name=":0" />  Zanzibar's marine ecosystem is an important part of the economy for fishing and algaculture and contains important marine ecosystems that act as fish nurseries for Indian Ocean fish populations. Moreover, the land ecosystem is the home of the endemic Zanzibar red colobus, the Zanzibar servaline genet, and the extinct or rare Zanzibar leopard. Pressure from the tourist industry and fishing as well as larger threats such as sea level rise caused by climate change are creating increasing environmental concerns throughout the region.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP]  Fanello began playing football with local side Polisportiva Pizzo. He turned professional with U.S. Catanzaro, and was the leading goalscorer of Serie C as he helped the club gain promotion to Serie B during the 1958–59 season. After playing for Italy at the 1960 Summer Olympics, Fanello signed with Serie A side A.C. Milan. However, his opportunities with the first team were limited, and he was loaned to U.S. Alessandria. He would appear for several other Italian clubs, including S.S.C. Napoli, and scored 17 goals in 80 Serie A appearances and 71 goals in 218 Serie B appearances. In 1973, he played abroad in the National Soccer League with Toronto Italia. He also served as a player-coach for Toronto Italia in 1973.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP]  Giovanni Fanello (born 21 February 1939 in Pizzo) is an Italian former footballer who played as a forward.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP]  Piero Betello (born January 11, 1935 in Rome) is a retired Italian professional football player. He played for 4 seasons (29 games, 1 goal) in the Serie A for A.S. Roma, U.S. Città di Palermo and S.S.C. Napoli.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP] Alessandria ; Italian Football Championship / Serie B ; Top goalscorer for the 1960–61 season - 26 goals in 38 games (Italian record)
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP] Catanzaro ; Italian Football Championship / Serie C1 ; Winner: 1958–59 Napoli ; Italian Football Championship / Serie B ; Runner-up: 1961–62, 1964–65 Catania ; Coppa delle Alpi ; Finalist: 1963–64 Napoli ; Coppa Italia ; Winner: 1961–62
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP] Giovanni Fanello  Giovanni Fanello (born 21 February 1939 in Pizzo) is an Italian former footballer who played as a forward.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP] Italy at the 1960 Summer Olympics  Italy was the host nation for the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. It was the first time that the nation had hosted the Summer Games, and the second time overall (after the 1956 Winter Olympics in Cortina d'Ampezzo). It also hosted the 1960 Summer Paralympics in Rome – the inaugural Paralympic Games.  280 competitors, 246 men and 34 women, took part in 138 events in 19 sports.
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP]
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP] 1973 National Soccer League season  The 1973 National Soccer League season was the fiftieth season under the National Soccer League (NSL) name. The season began in May and concluded in late October with Toronto Hungaria defeating Toronto Croatia for the NSL Championship. Toronto Hungaria repeated their success by defeating Croatia for the NSL Cup, which marked the organization's first league double. Although Toronto Croatia was defeated in the postseason, they still managed to secure the regular-season title and qualified for the Canadian Open Cup. In the Canadian Open Cup final Toronto successfully defended the title for the third consecutive season by defeating Challenge Trophy finalists Toronto West Indies United.   Toronto Croatia was scheduled to participate in the 1973 CONCACAF Champions' Cup against Club América, but the series of matches failed to materialize.<ref name=":10" /> Stanley Park Stadium was employed for the final time as the Toronto clubs transferred their home venue to the CNE Stadium in 1974.<ref name=":5" /> The league experienced a further increase in match attendance.<ref name=":7" />
What sport does Giovanni Fanello play? [SEP]
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP]  The 2001–02 National Division One (previously known as the Allied Dunbar Premiership Two and renamed as the Jewson National Division One for sponsorship reasons) was the fourteenth full season of rugby union within the second tier of the English league system, currently known as the RFU Championship. New teams to the division included Bedford Blues who had been relegated from the Allied Dunbar Premiership 1999-00 while Otley and Birmingham & Solihull had been promoted from National League Two. This season also saw the introduction of the bonus points scoring system. The season would also herald a new change in venue for Moseley who moved from their traditional home at The Reddings to share the University of Birmingham rugby pitch at Bournbrook, with The Reddings being sold to property developers in order to generate funds to keep the club in existence. Leeds Tykes, the champions, were promoted to the Allied Dunbar Premiership for season 2001–02. There was only one promotion place available and the runners–up Worcester remained in National League 1 while Orrell and Waterloo were relegated to the 2001–02 National Division Two.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP]  The 2001–02 National Division One (known as the Jewson National Division One for sponsorship reasons) was the 15th full season of rugby union within the second tier of the English league system, currently known as the RFU Championship. New teams to the division included Rotherham who had been relegated from the Zurich Premiership 2000–01 while Bracknell and Rugby Lions had been promoted from the 2000–01 National Division Two. For the first time the team finishing first, Rotherham, were denied promotion to the Zurich Premiership for season 2002–03 because their ground was not of the required standard - this was the first time a team had been denied entry to the top flight of English rugby since the leagues started in 1987 due to the introduction of the controversial 'minimum standards' rule for clubs seeking to join the Premiership. Worcester were runners-up for the second consecutive season, and Henley Hawks and Bracknell were relegated to the 2002–03 National Division Two with Bracknell spending just one season in the division.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] Game brought forward from 1 March 2003.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP]  The 2002–03 National Division One (for sponsorship reasons known as the Jewson National Division One) was the 16th full season of rugby union within the second tier of the English league system, currently known as the RFU Championship. New teams to the division included Orrell and Plymouth Albion who were promoted from 2001–02 National Division Two while no team was relegated from the 2001-02 Zurich Premiership as Rotherham's ground was not deemed suitable for top flight games. For the second year in a row Rotherham, were champions, and this year they were promoted to the Zurich Premiership for season 2003–04 with Worcester finishing as runners–up for the third consecutive season. Moseley and Rugby were relegated to the 2003–04 National Division Two.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] Game brought forward to 2 March 2002.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] 2001–02 Football League  The 2001–02 Football League (known as the Nationwide Football League for sponsorship reasons) was the 103rd completed season of The Football League.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] 2001–02 NBA season  The 2001–02 NBA season was the 56th season of the National Basketball Association. The season ended with the Los Angeles Lakers winning their third straight championship, beating the New Jersey Nets 4–0 in the 2002 NBA Finals.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] 2001–02 FA Premier League  The 2001–02 FA Premier League (known as the FA Barclaycard Premiership for sponsorship reasons) was the tenth season of the competition. It began with a new sponsor, Barclaycard, and was titled the FA Barclaycard Premiership, replacing the previous sponsor, Carling. The title race turned into a battle among four sides – Arsenal, Manchester United, Liverpool and Newcastle United.  Arsenal clinched the title on 8 May 2002 after a convincing win against Manchester United at Old Trafford, in the penultimate game of the season. This new attacking Arsenal side had won the FA Cup five days before and made history by accomplishing their third double, their second under the reign of Arsène Wenger, who showed his commitment by signing a new four-year deal with Arsenal.  The season started on 18 August 2001 and ended on 11 May 2002.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] 2001–02 NHL season  The 2001–02 NHL season was the 85th regular season of the National Hockey League. Thirty teams competed in an 82-game regular season. The regular season began on October 3, and the playoffs concluded on June 13, with the Detroit Red Wings defeating the Carolina Hurricanes in the Stanley Cup Finals in five games, winning their tenth Stanley Cup in franchise history. Section::::League business. The cash-strapped Pittsburgh Penguins, desperate to dump payroll, could no longer afford perennial superstar Jaromir Jagr. He would be traded, along with Frantisek Kucera, to the Washington Capitals in exchange for Kris Beech, Ross Lupaschuk, Michal Sivek, and $4.9 million. Despite Mario Lemieux's return the previous season, the absence of Jagr proved devastating to the Penguins, and they missed the playoffs for the first time since 1990. The Penguins did not return to the playoffs until they drafted Sidney Crosby in 2005.  The Dallas Stars moved their home games from Reunion Arena to American Airlines Center.  The NHL honored the victims of 9/11 by having all players wear a patch on their jerseys, a ribbon sticker on the back of their helmet, as well as a red, white and blue ribbon painted on the ice behind each net, (with the Canadian teams having a red and white ribbon painted on the ice behind either net). On September 20, 2001, in the middle of a pre-season game between the Philadelphia Flyers and New York Rangers with both teams tied up 2–2, nine days after the attacks, the game was stopped. A message from United States President George W. Bush about the 9/11 attacks was broadcast on the arena video screen. After the message, the game did not resume and was declared a 2–2 tie.
What sport does 2001–02 Division 1 season play? [SEP] 2001–02 Arsenal F.C. season  The 2001–02 season was the 104th season of competitive football played by Arsenal. Having ended the previous season as FA Cup finalists and league runners-up to Manchester United, the club went one better in this campaign, by completing the domestic double – their second in four years and third overall. Arsenal won the Premier League by a seven-point margin, were unbeaten away from home and managed the unique feat of scoring in every league game. They lost only three times in the division, all of which at home. At the Millennium Stadium, Arsenal beat Chelsea 2–0 to win the 2002 FA Cup Final. In Europe however, they fared poorly as they were eliminated in the second group stage of the UEFA Champions League.  In the transfer window, Arsenal sold several fringe players, notably Nelson Vivas to Internazionale and Sylvinho to Celta Vigo; goalkeeper John Lukic was released following his decision to retire. Goalkeeper Richard Wright was signed as an earmarked understudy to David Seaman, while midfielder Giovanni van Bronckhorst and striker Francis Jeffers were purchased in big money moves from Rangers and Everton respectively. Perhaps the marked signing for Arsenal was the acquisition of defender Sol Campbell, who moved from local rivals Tottenham Hotspur on a free transfer.  Manager Arsène Wenger was named Barclaycard Manager of the Year and midfielder Freddie Ljungberg received the player equivalent – the Barclaycard Player of the Year, in recognition of the team's achievement. Winger Robert Pires was given the accolade of being the Football Writers' Association Footballer of the Year, while Thierry Henry ended the campaign as club and the league's top goalscorer, the latter for which he was awarded the Premier League Golden Boot. At the end of the season, club captain Tony Adams announced his retirement from football; he was followed by fellow defender Lee Dixon and club goalkeeping coach Bob Wilson.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]  Robert B. Priddy (born March 24, 1930) is an American former professional basketball player. Priddy was selected in the 1952 NBA draft by the Baltimore Bullets after a collegiate career at New Mexico A&M. He played for the Bullets in just 16 games during the 1952–53 season.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]  Robert Simpson Priddy (born December 10, 1939) is a retired American professional baseball player. He was a right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball from 1962 to 1971, with the exception of the 1963 season. Priddy batted right-handed, stood 6 ft tall and weighed 200 lb. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, San Francisco Giants, Washington Senators, Chicago White Sox, California Angels and Atlanta Braves.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]  Stanton Bliss Priddy (February 26, 1921 – May 12, 1996) is an American ice hockey defenseman who competed in ice hockey at the 1948 Winter Olympics. Priddy was a member of the American ice hockey team which played eight games, but was disqualified, at the 1948 Winter Olympics hosted by St. Moritz, Switzerland.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]  Priddy played with the national team at the Pan American Games in 1999. In 2000 he also debuted playing in Italy, for Volley Forlì. In 2001 Priddy led the team in kills (258) and digs (184), and was second on the team in blocks (41) and tied for third in service aces (14), participating in the Japan Tour, Volleyball World League, World Championship Qualifier, NORCECA Zone Championships, and the Jeep America's Cup. That year he also played for the Vienna Hotvolleys club in Austria. Priddy rejoined the US team in late July 2002. He led the team in total points (70), kills (60) and blocks (eight) in six matches
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]  the FIVB Volleyball Men's World Championship, and finished the season first on the team in points per game (2.98) and sixth in total points (173), had 92 kills, 66 digs, 21 blocks and 10 service aces. He also participated for the national team in the Bulgaria Tour, Greece Tour, and Florida Tour. Priddy served as the team captain at the 2003 Pan American Games where the team placed fourth. Although battling an abdominal injury for much of the season, he still finished third on the team in kills (224) and fourth on the squad in service aces (17). He also participated in the Colorado/Nebraska Tour, Canada Tour, NORCECA Zone
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP] Bob Priddy  Robert Simpson Priddy (born December 10, 1939) is a retired American professional baseball player. He was a right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball from 1962 to 1971, with the exception of the 1963 season. Priddy batted right-handed, stood tall and weighed . He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  He played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, San Francisco Giants, Washington Senators, Chicago White Sox, California Angels and Atlanta Braves.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP] North Dallas Forty  North Dallas Forty is a 1979 American sports film starring Nick Nolte, Mac Davis, and G. D. Spradlin set in the decadent world of American professional football in the late 1970s. It was directed by Ted Kotcheff and based on the best-selling 1973 novel by Peter Gent. The screenplay was by Kotcheff, Gent, Frank Yablans, and Nancy Dowd (uncredited). This was the first film role for Davis, a popular country music recording artist.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP]
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP] Baltimore Bullets (1944–1954)  The Baltimore Bullets were a professional basketball team based in Baltimore. The Bullets competed in the American Basketball League (1944–1947), the Basketball Association of America (1947–1949), and (following the BAA's absorption of the National Basketball League) the National Basketball Association (1949–1954). On November 27, 1954, the team folded with a 3–11 record, making the Bullets the last NBA franchise to fold. Out of all defunct NBA teams, the Bullets were members of the association for the longest time and the only defunct team to win a championship.  The Bullets name was revived in 1963, when the former Chicago Zephyrs relocated to Baltimore; even after these Bullets relocated to Washington in 1973, they kept their name for 24 more years until they were renamed to the Wizards.
What sport does Bob Priddy play? [SEP] Jerry Priddy  Gerald Edward Priddy (November 9, 1919 – March 3, 1980) was an American professional baseball player and a second baseman in Major League Baseball for 11 years. He played for the New York Yankees (1941–1942), Washington Senators (1943, 1946–1947), St. Louis Browns (1948–1949), and Detroit Tigers (1950–1953).
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP]  Jin Zhiyang started his playing career with the Beijing youth team and subsequently the senior Beijing team. His greatest achievement came when he won the national league title in 1973 with the Beijing team. He would retire shortly afterwards to begin his management career.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP]  Jin Zhiyang (Simplified Chinese: 金志扬, born January 10, 1944) is a Chinese football coach and a former player. He is mainly noted within China for his loyal service towards Beijing as both a successful player and then later as a coach for the team where his greatest achievements was when he managed the team to two Chinese FA Cup titles in the 1996 and then 1997 league seasons. He has also managed several other teams such as Tibet, Tianjin Teda and China on a caretaker basis, while his last senior coaching position was with Beijing Institute of Technology FC.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Chinese Jia-A League: 1973 Beijing
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP]  Liu Zhixin (born 25 April 1993) is a Chinese ice hockey player and member of the Chinese national team, currently with the KRS Vanke Rays Shenzhen of the Zhenskaya Hockey League (ZhHL). She was the youngest member of the Chinese delegation at the 2010 Winter Olympics, where she represented the country in the women's ice hockey tournament. Liu previously played in the Canadian Women's Hockey League (CWHL) with Kunlun Red Star WIH during the 2017–18 season and with the Shenzhen KRS Vanke Rays during the 2018–19 season.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP]  He Jin (born 3 May 1987 in Tianjin) is a Chinese water polo player who was part of the silver medal winning team at the 2007 World Junior Championship. She competed at the 2008 and 2012 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Jin Zhiyang  Jin Zhiyang (Simplified Chinese: 金志扬, born January 10, 1944) is a Chinese football coach and a former player. He is mainly noted within China for his loyal service towards Beijing as both a successful player and then later as a coach for the team where his greatest achievements was when he managed the team to two Chinese FA Cup titles in the 1996 and then 1997 league seasons. He has also managed several other teams such as Tibet, Tianjin Teda and China on a caretaker basis, while his last senior coaching position was with Beijing Institute of Technology FC.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Beijing Guoan F.C.  Beijing Guoan Football Club () is a professional football club that currently participates in the Chinese Super League under licence from the Chinese Football Association (CFA). The team is based in the Chaoyang District in Beijing and their home stadium is the Workers' Stadium with a seating capacity of 66,161. In early 2021, the shareholders changed from the real estate company Sinobo Group (64%) and CITIC Limited (36%) of CITIC Group to solely Sinobo Group (100%). The club is one of the four teams to have never been relegated from the league since its debut in 2004.  The club's predecessor was called Beijing Football Club and they predominantly played in the top tier, where they won several domestic league and cup titles. On December 29, 1992 the club was recognized to become a completely professional football club making them one of the founding members of the first fully professional top tier league in China. Since then they have gone on to win their first ever professional league title in the 2009 league season as well as the 1996, 1997, 2003 and 2018 Chinese FA Cup.  According to "Forbes", Guoan was the second most valuable football team in China, with a team value of US$167 million, and an estimated revenue of US$30 million in 2015. According to the disclosure of CITIC Pacific, the club revenue was in 2013 season. In 2015 season, the sponsorship from CITIC Securities was .
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Shen Xiangfu  Shen Xiangfu (; ; born May 27, 1957 in Beijing) is a Chinese football coach who is the joint manager of The Regional Preferente de la Comunitat Valenciana side Atlético Museros as well as also being a former international football player. As a player, he was associated with the Beijing Team and Fujitsu before moving into management where he went back to manage both his previous clubs before joining the Chinese national team set-up for several years. When he returned to club management he would guide Guangzhou Pharmaceutical to the 2007 China League One title before having spells at Changchun Yatai and Henan Jianye.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Beijing Institute of Technology F.C.  Beijing Institute of Technology Football Club (Simplified Chinese: 北京理工大学足球俱乐部) or simply BIT is a professional Chinese football club that currently participates in the China League One division under licence from the Chinese Football Association (CFA). The team is based in Haidian, Beijing and their home stadium is the 5,000 capacity BIT Eastern Athletic Field. Their current majority shareholders are Beijing Institute of Technology (BIT) and Joan Oliver, who acquired a 29% stake on 5 December 2016.<ref name="diarimes"/><ref name="elespanol"/>  The club was founded in 2000 by the Beijing Institute of Technology initially as a college football team, where they experienced significant success by winning four Chinese Collegiate Championships before deciding to enter the 2006 league campaign at the bottom of the professional Chinese football league pyramid in the third tier. After winning the 2006 division championship the club complied with the requirements of full professionalism by having their full-time students register as professionals, increasing player wages and gaining sponsorship. On 11 April 2017, the club announced a permanent separation between their University team and professional team.
What sport does Jin Zhiyang play? [SEP] Jin (Chinese surname)  Jin is the Hanyu pinyin transliteration of a number of Chinese surnames. The most common one, Jīn , literally means "gold" and is 29th in the list of "Hundred Family Surnames". As of 2006, it is ranked the 64th most common Chinese surname and is sometimes transliterated as Chin.  The other, less common, surnames that are "Jin" in pinyin include Jìn (/) and Jìn ().
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP]  Israel Machado Campelo Andrade (born January 17, 1960 in Salvador), commonly known as Israel Andrade or simply Israel, is a former professional basketball player from Brazil.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP]  Andrade played with the senior Brazilian national basketball team at three consecutive Summer Olympic Games, at the 1984 Summer Olympic Games, the 1988 Summer Olympic games, and the 1992 Summer Olympic Games. Andrade was also a member of the Brazilian national team that won the gold medal at the 1987 Pan American Games, where he scored 78 points in seven games during the tournament. He also played at the 1982 FIBA World Cup, the 1986 FIBA World Cup, and the 1990 FIBA World Cup.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP]  During his pro club career, Andrade won 4 Brazilian Championships, in the seasons 1982, 1985, 1986 (I), and 1986 (II), while a member of C.A. Monte Líbano.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP]  Israel national men's curling team has been competing as part of the European playdowns since 2014. Israel has sent teams to the world mixed, world mixed doubles and world men's seniors competitions as well.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Ryan Adeleye, US/Israel, defender (Hapoel Be'er Sheva) ; Dudu Aouate, Israel, goalkeeper (RCD Mallorca & national team) ; Jonathan Assous, France/Israel, defensive midfielder (Hapoel Ramat Gan) ; Gai Assulin, Israel, winger/attacking midfielder (Manchester City & national team) ; Pini Balili, Israel, striker (Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv & national team) ; Orr Barouch, Israel, striker (Chicago Fire & Israeli national team) ; David "Dedi" Ben Dayan, Israel, left defender (Hapoel Tel Aviv & national team) ; Tal Ben Haim, Israel, center back/right back (QPR & national team) ; Yossi Benayoun, Israel, attacking midfielder (Chelsea, Liverpool, West Ham & national team captain) ; Eyal Berkovic, Israel, midfielder (national team) ; Daniel Brailovski, Argentina/Uruguay, midfielder (Argentina, Uruguay, & Israel national teams) ;
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Israel Andrade  Israel Machado Campelo Andrade (born January 17, 1960 in Salvador), commonly known as Israel Andrade or simply Israel, is a former professional basketball player from Brazil.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Brazil men's national basketball team  The Brazil national basketball team is governed by the Brazilian Basketball Confederation (), abbreviated as CBB.<br> They have been a member of the International Federation of Basketball (FIBA), since 1935. Brazil's national basketball team remains among the most successful in the Americas. It is the only team besides the United States, that has appeared at every FIBA Basketball World Cup, since it was first held in 1950.  Throughout its history, the Brazilian national team has won two FIBA World Cup gold medals (1959 and 1963), three Summer Olympic Games bronze medals (in 1948, 1960 and 1964), four FIBA AmeriCup gold medals (1984, 1988, 2005 and 2009), and six Pan American Games gold medals (1971, 1987, 1999, 2003, 2007, and 2015).
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Charlotte Flair  Ashley Elizabeth Fliehr (born April 5, 1986) is an American professional wrestler. She is currently signed to WWE, where she performs on the SmackDown brand under the ring name Charlotte Flair. She is the current SmackDown Women's Champion in her record-setting seventh reign.  She is a second-generation professional wrestler, being the daughter of Ric Flair. Flair made her first appearance in professional wrestling alongside her father in World Championship Wrestling in 1993. In 2012, she began training with WWE, and debuted in NXT the following year. and was promoted to WWE's main roster in 2015. In 2016, "PWI" readers voted Flair Woman of the Year and Top Female Professional Wrestler.  Flair is a 14-time women's world champion, having held the WWE Divas Championship once, the Raw Women's Championship a record six times, and the SmackDown Women's Championship a record seven times. She has also held the NXT Women's Championship twice and the WWE Women's Tag Team Championship once, making her a Triple Crown Champion and Grand Slam Champion. Flair also won the Royal Rumble match in 2020. In October 2016, she became the first woman (alongside Sasha Banks) to headline a WWE pay-per-view event. Her match with Becky Lynch and Ronda Rousey at 2019's WrestleMania 35 was the first time that a women's match had headlined WWE's flagship event.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Ricardo Quaresma  Ricardo Andrade Quaresma Bernardo (; born 26 September 1983) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as a winger.  He began his career at Sporting CP and went on to play for Barcelona, Inter Milan, Porto (twice), Chelsea, Beşiktaş (twice), Al-Ahli Dubai, Kasımpaşa and Vitória de Guimarães. Regarded as a mercurial talent, his tricks, including the "rabona" and "trivela" (a bending shot with the outside of his right foot) made him a popular figure among fans around the world.  A Portugal international for 15 years, Quaresma won 80 caps and played at three European Championships, including the victorious Euro 2016 campaign, and the 2018 World Cup.
What sport does Israel Andrade play? [SEP] Bruno Andrade (footballer, born 1989)  Bruno Fernandes Andrade de Brito (born 2 March 1989) is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a forward for Hoofdklasse club Halsteren.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP]  Patrick Lechi Edema (born 27 August 1992) is a Ugandan professional footballer who plays for Eléctrico.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP]  He made his professional debut in the Segunda Liga for Beira-Mar on 31 August 2014 in a game against [[Sporting Clube de Portugal B|Sporting B].
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP]  He represented the Uganda U20s at the 2010 CECAFA U-20 Championship.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP]  Patrick Beljaards (born 4 March 1978, in Haarlem) is a Dutch baseball player. Beljaards represented the Netherlands at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney where he and his team became fifth. Four years later at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens they were sixth. Beljaards played his last full season in 2011, then retired.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP]  Natrez Deshun Patrick (born July 9, 1997) is an American football linebacker for the Denver Broncos of the National Football League (NFL). Originally from Atlanta, Georgia, Patrick played college football for four seasons for the University of Georgia Bulldogs.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP] Patrick Edema  Patrick Lechi Edema (born 27 August 1992) is a Ugandan professional footballer who plays for Eléctrico.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP] Joe Mauer  Joseph Patrick Mauer (born April 19, 1983) is an American former professional baseball catcher and first baseman, who spent his entire 15-year Major League Baseball (MLB) career with the Minnesota Twins. A six-time All-Star, Mauer is the only catcher in MLB history to win three batting titles, and the only catcher to ever win a batting title in the American League (AL).   He also won three consecutive Gold Glove Awards (2008–2010), five Silver Slugger Awards (including three in a row) and the 2009 AL Most Valuable Player (MVP) Award. , he is the most recent catcher to win (or even place in the top three in the voting) the MVP award in the American League. Mauer was selected by the Twins as the first overall pick of the 2001 Major League Baseball draft and was a fan-favorite during his career as he was a Minnesota native.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP] Adama Sanogo  Adama Sanogo (born 12 February 2002) is a Malian college basketball player for the UConn Huskies of the Big East Conference.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP] Tom Welling  Thomas "Tom" John Patrick Welling (born April 26, 1977) is an American actor, director, producer, and model best known for his role as Clark Kent in The WB/The CW superhero drama "Smallville" (2001–2011). He also co-starred in the third season of Fox fantasy comedy-drama "Lucifer" as Lt. Marcus Pierce/Cain (2017–2018).  A high school athlete, Welling initially worked in construction and, in 1998, he successfully modeled men's clothing for several popular brands. In 2000, he made a successful transition to television. He has been nominated and received several awards for his role as Clark Kent. In 2001, he had a recurring role as Rob "Karate Rob" Meltzer in the second season of the CBS legal drama "Judging Amy". His films include "Cheaper by the Dozen" (2003), "Cheaper by the Dozen 2" (2005), "The Fog" (2005), "Draft Day" (2014) and "The Choice" (2016). He has been cast as Samuel Campbell in the TV series "The Winchesters". He has also been involved behind the camera as an executive producer and a director.
What sport does Patrick Edema play? [SEP] Pat Swilling  Patrick Travis Swilling (born October 25, 1964) is an American former professional football player who was a linebacker in the National Football League (NFL). He played for the New Orleans Saints, Detroit Lions, and the Oakland Raiders. He had five Pro Bowl appearances in his NFL career and was the Associated Press (AP) NFL Defensive Player of the Year in 1991. He served from 2001 to 2004 as a member of the Louisiana House of Representatives.
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]  He studied high school in the "5 de Agosto" College of the province´s capital, an institution that granted him a scholarship to finish his studies at the "Eloy Alfaro" School, in the city of Guayaquil, where he developed an intense sports activity in basketball and athletics. He was selected from basketball by the province of Esmeraldas, in the College "Eloy Alfaro" developed his physical qualities with great success in the athletic activity. Represented to the Province of Guayas by several occasions. He won the gold medal in triple jump, javelin and discus throw, 110 meters hurdles and 1,500 meters flat. As a basketball player, he joined the Atlétic and Emelec clubs.
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]  Gómez started to play football in Spain, but at the age of 15 he was exiled to the USSR where he played for Torpedo Moscow in 1947–1956, being the team captain in 1951–1953. He was called up to represent the Soviet Union at the 1952 Summer Olympics; however, as a reserve he did not come into action at the tournament.
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]  Agustín Alejandro Mazzilli (born 20 June 1989) is an Argentine field hockey player who plays as a midfielder or forward for Belgian club Braxgata and the Argentine national team.
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]  Agustín Eizaguirre Ostolaza (7 October 1897 – 28 November 1961) was a Spanish football player who competed in the 1920 Summer Olympics. He was a member of the Spanish team that won the silver medal in the football tournament, though he did not make an appearance. Eizaguirre was born in Zarautz. His son Ignacio also played for the Spain national team, as goalkeeper.
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]  Caidic is from Paete, Laguna and started playing basketball when he was in his fifth grade at Roosevelt College and in the Inter Subdivision Leagues at Brookside in Cainta before trying out for college teams such as the Ateneo Blue Eagles and the Mapua Cardinals but was unsuccessful. He then tried out for the Letran Knights and was accepted. But after realizing that Letran does not have an engineering program, he left. Allan was then taking up Mechanical Engineering. He was later accepted in University of the East (UE) but had to sit out on the reserve list as UE's lineup was already complete. Finally
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP]
What sport does Agustín Elduayen play? [SEP] Real Burgos CF  Real Burgos Club de Fútbol is a Spanish football team based in Burgos, in the autonomous community of Castile and León. Founded in 1983, it ceased to compete in 1996 and returned in 2011, holding home games at "Complejo Deportivo San Amaro", with a capacity of 1,000 spectators.  The team's greatest success in its short history came in 1990, when they managed to promote to La Liga for the first time. Their spell in the top tier lasted three seasons, ending with relegation in 1993.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]  Sébastien Chevallier (born 14 July 1987) is a Swiss beach volleyball player. He partnered with Sascha Heyer at the 2012 Summer Olympics tournament where they lost in the round of 16.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]  Sébastien Dockier (born 28 December 1989) is a Belgian field hockey player who plays for Dutch club Pinoké and the Belgium national team as a forward. Dockier comes from a real hockey family; not only his father and sister but even aunts and cousins have been playing field hockey.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]  Sebastien Chaule (born 14 December 1976 in Agen) is a German international rugby union player, playing for the TSV Handschuhsheim until 2012 in the Rugby-Bundesliga and the German national rugby union team. His greatest success as a national team player was the promotion to Division 1 of the European Nations Cup in 2008. He plays rugby since 1981 and originally hails from France. His usual position is outside-centre. His last game for Germany was against Russia on 2 May 2009 in Hannover, his 15th international. He retired from international rugby after a controversial red card he received in a Bundesliga match in October 2009. Since 2012 his now playing for the Team Allgäu Rugby Kempten in the Bavarian division. Chaule is a Sportphysical Therapist by profession. Sebastien Chaule is married and has three children.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]  Sébastien Descons (born 13 May 1983) is a French rugby union player. His position is Scrum-half and he currently plays for Racing Métro 92 in the Top 14. He began his career with USA Perpignan, playing just seven games in two seasons before dropping down to Section Paloise in the Pro D2. He joined Racing Métro in 2011.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]  The hurler played for the Under-19 French team in the 2009 Open International de Rouen. He played for France in the 2010 World Junior Baseball Championship and the 2011 European Junior Baseball Championship. He pitched for the French team in the 2012 European Under-21 Baseball Championship, winning a gold medal. He represented France in the 2015 Summer Universiade.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP] Sascha Heyer  Sascha Heyer (born 21 July 1972 in Zürich) is a beach volleyball player from Switzerland, who won the silver medal in the men's beach team competition at the 2005 Beach Volleyball World Championships in Berlin, Germany, with partner Paul Laciga. As of 2011, his current partner is Sébastien Chevallier. The pair participated in the 2012 Summer Olympics tournament where they lost in the round of 16.
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP]
What sport does Sébastien Chevallier play? [SEP] List of Haitians  This is a list of notable Haitian people. It includes people who were born in Haiti or possess Haitian citizenship, who are notable in Haiti and abroad. Due to Haitian nationality laws, dual citizenship is now permitted by the Constitution of Haiti, therefore people of Haitian ancestry born outside of the country are not included in this list, unless they have renounced their foreign citizenship or have resided extensively in Haiti and made significant contributions to Haitian government or society. The list includes both native-born and naturalized Haitians, as well as permanent foreign residents who have been recognized internationally for artistic, cultural, economic, historical, criminal, or political reasons, among others. If not indicated here, their birth in Haiti and notability are mentioned in their main article. This list does not include fictional characters or Haitian associations and organizations.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]  João Gabriel Schlittler (born February 10, 1985 in Rio de Janeiro) is a Brazilian judoka, who played for the heavyweight category. In 2007, he won a silver medal for his designated category at the Pan American Games, and bronze at the World Championships, coincidentally in his home city. Schlitter stands 1.97 metres (6 ft 5.5 in) tall and weighs 110 kilograms (243 lb). He is also currently a member of Clube de Regatas do Flamengo, a famous sport club in Rio de Janeiro. Schlittler represented Brazil at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where he competed for the men's heavyweight class (+100
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]  João Pedro Ferreiro Geraldo (born 29 September 1995) is a Portuguese table tennis player from Mirandela, who currently plays for German club TTF Liebherr Ochsenhausen. Together with Tiago Apolónia and Marcos Freitas, he won the gold medal in the men's team competition at the 2014 European Table Tennis Championships and at the inaugural European Games with Tiago Apolonia and Marcos Freitas.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]  João Pedro Andrade Selgas Monteiro (born 29 August 1983) is a Portuguese table tennis player. At the 2015 European Championships, he won the gold medal in the Doubles competition. He also competed at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the Men's singles, but was defeated in the second round. This was a round further than he managed at the 2008 Summer Olympics. João Monteiro practices at the Werner Schlager Academy in Schwechat, Austria since the opening in 2011.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]  He reached only into the quarterfinal round, where he lost by an automatic ippon to Cuba's Óscar Brayson, who also defeated him in the gold medal match at the Pan American Games. Because his opponent advanced further into the final match, Schlittler offered another shot for the bronze medal by defeating Lebanon's Rudy Hachache, with a tate shiho gatame (seven mat holds) and an ippon, in the repechage bout. Unfortunately, he finished only in seventh place, after losing out the final repechage bout to six-foot and eight-inch tall French judoka Teddy Riner, who successfully scored an ippon in more than a minute.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]  quarterfinals in the team event with Tiago Apolónia and João Monteiro. In June 2015, he competed in the inaugural European Games, for Portugal in table tennis, more specifically, Men's team with João Geraldo and Tiago Apolonia. He earned a gold medal. At the European Championships 2015 he won Silver in the Singles Event. He reached the quarterfinals of the 2016 Olympics in the individual event. Although he won his match, Portugal lost in the first round of the team event. As of August 2016, he is ranked the number eleven player in the world. Since 2012, Freitas lives in Schwechat and practices at the Werner Schlager Academy.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP]
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP] 2007 World Judo Championships  The 2007 World Judo Championships are the 25th edition of the Judo World Championships, and were held at the Rio Olympic Arena, usually called "Arena Multiuso", that was built for the 2007 Pan-American Games, in Jacarepaguá, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil from September 13 to September 16, 2007.  The competition gathered the sport's top athletes in Rio de Janeiro, with only a few exceptions, due to injuries. Among the high-profile injured judokas that were unable to participate were Brazil's Flávio Canto, bronze medallist in the -81 kg category at the 2004 Summer Olympic Games, who tore a ligament in his right elbow during the 2007 Pan American Games (during the event, Canto participated as a commentator for the Brazilian paid sports channel, SporTV); and Japan's Tadahiro Nomura, the three-time Olympic champion and heavy favorite in the -60 kg category was forced to withdraw only a few weeks before the event due to injury (his replacement was able to place 7th in the competition).  In the leadup to the event, Rio de Janeiro also hosted the IJF's International Congress, congregating the heads of all the national confederations affiliated to the IJF. The meeting took place on September 12, eve of the first day of competition, and in it, some important decisions were made. The first was the election of the new IJF president. Marius Vizer was elected by the attending representatives to replace Yung Sang Park, the current president. In addition, the Congress voted and approved unanimously, the extension of the IJF's president term from 2 years to 6 years. Another decision made in the meeting was the selection of the city that would host the 2011 World Championship. The contenders were the cities of Paris, France and Hamburg, Germany, and the French capital was selected as the host city for the 2011 event. Finally, the Congress also voted on the new presidency of the European Judo Union, with Russia's Sergei Soloveychik being elected president and Jean-Luc Rougé and Vladimír Bárta being elected as first vice president and vice president respectively. Newly appointed IJF president, Marius Vizer, was made honorary president of the European Judo Federation as well.  After the conclusion of competition in the last day of the event, the IJF members voted on the best athletes of the World Championship. In the men's side, Brazil's Tiago Camilo, who won in the -81 kg category by defeating all opponents by ippon (the perfect score, which ends the match automatically), was selected; and in the women's side, North Korea's Kye Sun-hui, who won in the -57 kg category, was chosen as best female athlete in the competition. Both athletes were presented with an obelisk-shaped, acrylic trophy for the achievement.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP] Teddy Riner  Teddy Pierre-Marie Riner (, ; born 7 April 1989) is a French judoka. He has won ten World Championships gold medals, the first and only judoka (male or female) to do so, and three Olympic gold medals (two individual, one team). He has also won five gold medals at the European Championships. He was a member of the Levallois Sporting Club before joining Paris Saint-Germain in August 2017.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP] List of World Judo Championships medalists  The following is the list of World Judo Championships medalists in the sport of judo.
What sport does João Schlittler play? [SEP] Brazil at the 2008 Summer Olympics  Brazil sent a delegation to compete at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China, in August 2008. Brazilian athletes have competed in every Summer Olympic Games since 1920, except the 1928 Summer Olympics. The country is represented by the Brazilian Olympic Committee (COB – Comitê Olímpico Brasileiro). Brazil headed to the Beijing Games with its largest Olympic delegation at the time, 277 athletes, including 132 women.<ref name="Delegation"/>  The 17 medals won by Brazil topped the previous medal count record set in 1996, and included the first individual medal and the first individual gold earned by women, by judoka Ketleyn Quadros and jumper Maurren Maggi, respectively. Three of the medals were gold, by Maggi, swimmer César Cielo and the female volleyball team.  Brazil won the first medal ever in taekwondo, when Natália Falavigna won the bronze medal in women's +67 kg. Brazil also won its first gold medal ever in swimming, achieved by César Cielo in men's 50 m freestyle.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP]  Andrew Tucker (born 25 December 1968) is a South African former footballer who played at both professional and international levels as a defender. Tucker played club football for Hellenic and SuperSport United; he also earned nine caps for the South African national side between 1994 and 1995. He was part of the squad that won the 1996 African Cup of Nations.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP]  Tucker was first named in the squad for the 2014 ITM Cup, however due to knee and shoulder injuries, he didn't get any game time during the season and had to wait until the following year for his provincial debut. He played 9 times for Waikato in a season in which they claimed the Ranfurly Shield and he was named as Waikato Supporters Club forward of the year. 2016 proved to be another tough year for him, with an ACL knee injury sustained in week 2 against ruling him out for the rest of the year.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP]  In addition to being a fine rugby player in high school, Tucker also played cricket, representing Canterbury at age group level and New Zealand at under-19 level.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP]  Carson Wesley Tucker (born January 24, 2002) is an American professional baseball shortstop in the Cleveland Guardians organization. He was selected 23rd overall by the Cleveland Indians in the 2020 Major League Baseball draft. Tucker attended Mountain Pointe High School in Phoenix, Arizona, where he played baseball. In 92 games at Mountain Pointe during his high school career, he hit .390 with five home runs and 68 RBIs. In 2013 and 2014, he was selected for U-12 United States national baseball team. He committed to play college baseball at the University of Texas. Tucker was selected by the Cleveland Indians with the 23rd overall pick in the 2020 Major League Baseball draft. Tucker signed with the Indians on June 26 for a $2 million bonus. He did not play a minor league game in 2020 due to the cancellation of the minor league season caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. For the 2021 season, he was assigned to the Rookie-level Arizona Complex League Indians, but appeared in only six games due to a hand injury. Tucker's brother, Cole, plays for the Pittsburgh Pirates.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP]  Brad Tucker (born 9 October 1992 in Christchurch, New Zealand) is a New Zealand rugby union player. He plays lock and flanker for the Seattle Seawolves in Major League Rugby (MLR). Tucker previously played for a number of New Zealand provincial sides in the Mitre 10 Cup but was unable to secure a Super Rugby contract. Tucker had a successful season with Seattle, winning the championship and earning a place in the all MLR team and being named player of the season.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP] List of NFL on CBS announcers  This article is a list of announcers for CBS coverage of the National Football League (NFL).
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP] Bob Feller  Robert William Andrew Feller (November 3, 1918 – December 15, 2010), nicknamed "the Heater from Van Meter", "Bullet Bob", and "Rapid Robert", was an American baseball pitcher who played 18 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cleveland Indians between 1936 and 1956. In a career spanning 570 games, Feller pitched 3,827 innings and posted a win–loss record of 266–162, with 279 complete games, 44 shutouts, and a 3.25 earned run average (ERA). His career 2,581 strikeouts were third all-time upon his retirement.  A prodigy who bypassed baseball's minor leagues, Feller made his debut with the Indians at the age of 17. His career was interrupted by four years of military service (1942–1945) as a United States Navy Chief Petty Officer aboard during World War II. Feller became the first pitcher to win 24 games in a season before the age of 21. He threw no-hitters in 1940, 1946, and 1951, and 12 one-hitters, both records at his retirement. He helped the Indians win a World Series title in 1948 and an American League-record 111 wins and the pennant in 1954. Feller led the American League in wins six times and in strikeouts seven times. In 1946 he recorded 348 strikeouts, the most since 1904 and then believed to be a record.   An eight-time All-Star, Feller was ranked 36th on "Sporting News"s 1999 list of the 100 Greatest Baseball Players and was named the publication's "greatest pitcher of his time". He was a finalist for the Major League Baseball All-Century Team in 1999. Baseball Hall of Fame member Ted Williams called Feller "the fastest and best pitcher I ever saw during my career." Hall of Famer Stan Musial believed he was "probably the greatest pitcher of our era."<ref name="Globe"/> He was elected into the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1962 on his first ballot with the then fourth highest percentage of votes. He was elected the inaugural President of the Major League Baseball Players' Association and both organized and participated in barnstorm exhibition games which featured players from both the Major and Negro leagues. Feller died at the age of 92 in 2010.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP] Tucker Carlson  Tucker Swanson McNear Carlson (born May 16, 1969) is an American television host, conservative political commentator and writer who has hosted the nightly political talk show "Tucker Carlson Tonight" on Fox News since 2016.  Carlson began his media career in the 1990s, writing for "The Weekly Standard" and other publications. He was a CNN commentator from 2000 to 2005 and a co-host of the network's prime-time news debate program "Crossfire" from 2001 to 2005. From 2005 to 2008, he hosted the nightly program "Tucker" on MSNBC. He has been a political analyst for Fox News since 2009, appearing as guest or guest host on various programs before the launch of his current show. In 2010, Carlson co-founded and served as the initial editor-in-chief of the right-wing news and opinion website "The Daily Caller", until selling his ownership stake and leaving in 2020. He has written three books: "Politicians, Partisans, and Parasites" (2003), "Ship of Fools" (2018), and "The Long Slide" (2021).  An advocate of former U.S. president Donald Trump, Carlson was described by "Politico" as "perhaps the highest-profile proponent of 'Trumpism'" and as willing to criticize Trump when he believed that the former president was straying from that ideology. He was said to have influenced some of Trump's decisions as president, including the cancellation of a military strike against Iran in 2019, the firing of John Bolton, and the commutation of Roger Stone's prison sentence in 2020. Carlson has been described as a leading voice of white grievance politics. He is known for circulating far-right ideas into mainstream politics and discourse. It is one of the most watched cable news shows in the United States.  Carlson is a vocal opponent of progressivism and critic of immigration, and has been described as a nationalist. Formerly an economic libertarian, he now supports protectionism. In 2004, he renounced his initial support for the Iraq War, and has since been skeptical of U.S. foreign interventions. and the January 6 United States Capitol attack;<ref name="theory" /><ref name="politifact" /> and has been noted for false and misleading statements about those topics and a number of others.<ref name=":5" /><ref name="Confessore1_4/30/2022" /><ref name="politifact" /><ref name=":14" /><ref name="britannica" />
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP] Howard Hughes  Howard Robard Hughes Jr. (December 24, 1905 – April 5, 1976) was an American business magnate, record-setting pilot, engineer, film producer, and philanthropist, known during his lifetime as one of the most influential and richest people in the world. He first became prominent as a film producer, and then as an important figure in the aviation industry. Later in life, he became known for his eccentric behavior and reclusive lifestyle—oddities that were caused in part by his worsening obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), chronic pain from a near-fatal plane crash, and increasing deafness.  As a film tycoon, Hughes gained fame in Hollywood beginning in the late 1920s, when he produced big-budget and often controversial films such as "The Racket" (1928), "Hell's Angels" (1930), and "Scarface" (1932). He later acquired the RKO Pictures film studio in 1948, recognized then as one of the Big Five studios of Hollywood's Golden Age, although the production company struggled under his control and ultimately ceased operations in 1957.  Through his interest in aviation and aerospace travel, Hughes formed the Hughes Aircraft Company in 1932, hiring numerous engineers, designers, and defense contractors.  During his final years, Hughes extended his financial empire to include several major businesses in Las Vegas, such as real estate, hotels, casinos, and media outlets. Known at the time as one of the most powerful men in the state of Nevada, he is largely credited with transforming Vegas into a more refined cosmopolitan city. After years of mental and physical decline, Hughes died of kidney failure in 1976. His legacy is maintained through the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and the Howard Hughes Corporation.
What sport does Andrew Tucker play? [SEP] Any Given Sunday  Any Given Sunday is a 1999 American sports drama film directed by Oliver Stone depicting a fictional professional American football team. The film features an ensemble cast, including Al Pacino, Cameron Diaz, Dennis Quaid, Jamie Foxx, James Woods, LL Cool J, Ann-Margret, Lauren Holly, Matthew Modine, John C. McGinley, Charlton Heston, Bill Bellamy, Lela Rochon, Aaron Eckhart, Elizabeth Berkley, and NFL players Jim Brown and Lawrence Taylor. It is partly based on the 1984 novel "On Any Given Sunday" by NFL defensive end Pat Toomay; the title is derived from a line in the book (also used in the film) that a team can win or lose on "any given Sunday", said by the fictitious coach Tony D'Amato.  Cameo roles also featured many former American football players including Dick Butkus, Y. A. Tittle, Pat Toomay, Warren Moon, Johnny Unitas, Ricky Watters, Emmitt Smith and Terrell Owens, as well as coach Barry Switzer.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]  Indonesia Education League (in Indonesian : Liga Pendidikan Indonesia) is a football competition between junior and senior high schools and universities all over Indonesia. It is organized in stages, from the regency / city, provincial, regional, and national levels. Implementation of activities outside school hours or on school holidays on major educational element. Organized by the principle of the sports industry. Cooperation of the Ministry of National Education and Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Football Association of Indonesia. The President Cup tournament is gaining.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]  Is a registered student or students who are actively studying in high school / University and has an average rating of academic seven for students in high school and college students who have a cumulative IP of 2.5. For players from junior high and equivalent levels should be a maximum of 15 years old, for players from high school and should equal a maximum of 18 years old and for players from the university should be a maximum of 23 years old. Players who are registered, are required to have a Community Card Indonesia Education League.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]  Basketball is one of the most popular sports especially among Indonesian youth. Liga Bola Basket Nasional is the pre-eminent men's basketball league in Indonesia, competed by 10 clubs across the country. The competition started as Indonesian Basketball League (IBL) in 2003. In 2010, Perbasi appointed DBL Indonesia to handle the competition and changed the league's name to National Basketball League (NBL). Today, Indonesia and the Philippines are the major basketball powerhouses in Southeast Asia. The Indonesia national basketball team's biggest success has been gold at the 1996 Southeast Asian Basketball Championship. Indonesia will host the official 2021 Asian Basketball Championship and most notably, the country will co-host the 2023 Basketball World Cup, together with the Philippines and Japan. Although lately basketball has been proven as the most famous sport. Even their national team were able to be invited to several competitions. Several matches will be played in Jakarta. Additionally, a whole basketball league is dedicated to junior and senior students throughout Indonesia. This league is called DBL, which stands for Development Basketball League.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]  SIS Kelapa Gading is the current record holder for the overall champion school in the annual SIS Olympics, a competition including all eight branches of SIS across Indonesia. As of the 2017/18 academic year, SIS-KG had won each of the last nine SIS Olympics. Competition includes track and field, swimming, tennis, table tennis, badminton, volleyball, basketball and futsal. The futsal competition involving teams from all age groups is called the Governors Cup. SIS-KG has won this cup for the most recent six years. SIS-KG enters its own teams in the Greenfield's Cup of the Jakarta Schools Football League each year (boys and girls teams and contributes the majority of the players to a SIS United team comprising players from among the four SIS schools in Jakarta. SIS-KG has very successful girls volleyball and football teams.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]  of Indonesia (PSSI). The Indonesian football league started around 1930 in the Dutch colonial era. In 1993, PSSI combined the existing 2 amateur competitions to be a single professional competition for football clubs, known as the Indonesian Football League (Liga Indonesia). Starting from 2008-09 season onwards, the competition format changed into a more common system that also being used in most European football leagues. The name also changed into Indonesia Super League. On the international stage, Indonesia experienced limited success despite being the first Asian team to qualify for the FIFA World Cup in 1938 as Dutch East Indies. In 1956, the
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP] Sport in Indonesia  Sports in Indonesia are popular from both the participation and spectating aspect. Some popular sports in Indonesia are football, volleyball, basketball, badminton, and the native Indonesian martial art pencak silat. Badminton is arguably Indonesia's most successful sport. Indonesia has won gold medals in badminton in every Olympic Games since the sport was first introduced to the Olympics in 1992, with the exception of the 2012 Summer Olympics. Indonesia became the first grand winner in Badminton Olympics back then 1992. Indonesia regularly participates in the Thomas Cup, Uber Cup, and Sudirman Cup badminton championships, then became the first nation in history to complete those three titles. Indonesia also regularly participates in regional multi-events sport, such as the Southeast Asian Games, Asian Games, and Olympic Games. Indonesia is one of the major sport powerhouses in the Southeast Asian region, winning the Southeast Asian Games 10 times since 1977.  Sporting events in Indonesia are organised by the Indonesian National Sport Committee ("Komite Olahraga Nasional Indonesia" or "KONI"). The organisation, along with the Indonesian government, have set the National Sports Day on 9 September.<ref name="pcca"/> Indonesia hosts the Pekan Olahraga Nasional multi-sport event every four years. Athletes from all provinces of Indonesia participate in this event, with hosting tally are distributed among Indonesian provinces.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP]
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP] Ivy League  The Ivy League is an American collegiate athletic conference comprising eight private research universities in the Northeastern United States. The term "Ivy League" is typically used beyond the sports context to refer to the eight schools as a group of elite colleges with connotations of academic excellence, selectivity in admissions, and social elitism. Its members are Brown University, Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Harvard University, Princeton University, University of Pennsylvania, and Yale University.  While the term was in use as early as 1933, it became official only after the formation of the athletic conference in 1954. All of the "Ivies" except Cornell were founded during the colonial period; they thus account for seven of the nine colonial colleges chartered before the American Revolution. The other two colonial colleges, Rutgers University and the College of William & Mary, became public institutions.  Ivy League schools are viewed as some of the most prestigious universities in the world. All eight universities place in the top 18 of the 2023 "U.S. News & World Report" National Universities ranking, including three Ivies in the top five (Yale, Harvard, and Princeton). "U.S. News" has named a member of the Ivy League as the best national university every year since 2001: , Princeton eleven times, Harvard twice, and the two schools tied for first five times. In the 2021 "U.S. News & World Report" Best Global University Ranking, two Ivies rank in the top 10 internationally (Harvard first and Columbia sixth). All eight Ivy League schools are members of the Association of American Universities, the most prestigious alliance of American research universities.  Undergraduate enrollments range from about 4,500 to about 15,000, larger than most liberal arts colleges and smaller than most state universities. Total enrollment, which includes graduate students, ranges from approximately 6,600 at Dartmouth to over 20,000 at Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, and Penn. Ivy League financial endowments range from Brown's $6.9 billion to Harvard's $53.2 billion, the largest financial endowment of any academic institution in the world.  The Ivy League is similar to other groups of universities in other countries, such as the "Grandes écoles" in France, Oxbridge in the United Kingdom, the C9 League in China, the Imperial Universities in Japan, and the Group of Eight in Australia.
What sport does Indonesia Education League play? [SEP] American football  American football (referred to simply as football in the United States and Canada), also known as gridiron, is a team sport played by two teams of eleven players on a rectangular field with goalposts at each end. The offense, the team with possession of the oval-shaped football, attempts to advance down the field by running with the ball or passing it, while the defense, the team without possession of the ball, aims to stop the offense's advance and to take control of the ball for themselves. The offense must advance at least ten yards in four downs or plays; if they fail, they turn over the football to the defense, but if they succeed, they are given a new set of four downs to continue the drive. Points are scored primarily by advancing the ball into the opposing team's end zone for a touchdown or kicking the ball through the opponent's goalposts for a field goal. The team with the most points at the end of a game wins.  American football evolved in the United States, originating from the sports of soccer and rugby. The first American football match was played on November 6, 1869, between two college teams, Rutgers and Princeton, using rules based on the rules of soccer at the time. A set of rule changes drawn up from 1880 onward by Walter Camp, the "Father of American Football", established the snap, the line of scrimmage, eleven-player teams, and the concept of downs. Later rule changes legalized the forward pass, created the neutral zone and specified the size and shape of the football. The sport is closely related to Canadian football, which evolved in parallel with and at the same time as the American game, although its rules were developed independently from those of Camp. Most of the features that distinguish American football from rugby and soccer are also present in Canadian football. The two sports are considered the primary variants of gridiron football.  American football is the most popular sport in the United States in terms of broadcast viewership audience. The most popular forms of the game are professional and college football, with the other major levels being high-school and youth football. , nearly 1.1 million high-school athletes and 70,000 college athletes play the sport in the United States annually. The National Football League, the most popular American professional football league, has the highest average attendance of any professional sports league in the world. Its championship game, the Super Bowl, ranks among the most-watched club sporting events in the world. The league has an annual revenue of around US$15 billion, making it the most valuable sports league in the world. Other professional leagues exist worldwide, but the sport does not have the international popularity of other American sports like baseball or basketball.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]  Ramón Rodríguez del Solar (born 8 September 1977 in Pilcopata, Cuzco) is a Peruvian footballer who plays as a striker for Santa Rosa in the Torneo Descentralizado. In his long career, Rodríguez has played for the likes of Cienciano, FBC Melgar, Total Clean, Deportivo Municipal, Sport Boys, Alianza Atlético, Inti Gas Deportes, and Cobresol and Real Garcilaso. His nicknamed is El Ratón (The Mouse)
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]  Rodríguez made his senior international debut in 2008, at the South American Championship in Montevideo. Since his debut, Rodríguez has been a constant fixture in the Los Diablos team. During his career, Rodríguez has medalled twice at the Pan American Games, winning bronze at both the 2011 and 2015 games, in Guadalajara and Toronto respectively. He also won silver at the 2014 and 2018 South American Games, in Santiago and Cochabamba respectively. In 2019, he represented Chile at the Pan American Games in Lima and the 2018–19 FIH Series Finals in Le Touquet.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]  Ralph Rodríguez (born 29 July 1941) is a Puerto Rican former sport shooter who competed in the Summer Olympics of 1968, 1976, 1992, 1996 and 2000. He was one of the torch lighters of the 2010 Central American and Caribbean Games.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]  Rodriguez has played for the Mexico national baseball team at the 2008 Summer Olympics and the 2017 World Baseball Classic.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]  Ronny Rodríguez Martinez (born April 17, 1992) is a Dominican professional baseball infielder for the Hokkaido Nippon-Ham Fighters of Nippon Professional Baseball (NPB). He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Detroit Tigers. Rodríguez has also played for the Dominican Republic national baseball team.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP]
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP] Monchi  Ramón Rodríguez Verdejo (born 20 September 1968), commonly known as Monchi, is a Spanish retired footballer who played as a goalkeeper, currently director of football of Sevilla FC.
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP] Michelle Rodriguez  Mayte Michelle Rodriguez (born July 12, 1978) is an American actress.  Rodriguez began her career in 2000, playing a troubled boxer in the independent sports drama film "Girlfight" (2000), where she won the Independent Spirit Award and Gotham Award for Best Debut Performance. Rodriguez then began starring as Letty Ortiz in the "Fast & Furious" franchise, and portrayed Rain Ocampo in the "Resident Evil" franchise. She appeared in the crime thriller "S.W.A.T." (2003), and later starred in James Cameron's science fiction epic "Avatar" (2009) and in the action film "" (2011).  After portraying Minerva Mirabal in the biopic "Trópico de Sangre" (2010), Rodriguez headlined the exploitation films "Machete" (2010) and "Machete Kills" (2013), and starred in the computer animated comedy films "Turbo" (2013) and "" (2017), while her performance in the heist film "Widows" (2018) was critically praised.  Outside of film, Rodriguez played Ana Lucia Cortez in the drama television series "Lost" (2005–2006; 2009–2010), and voiced Liz Ricarro in the English-language translation of the anime "Immortal Grand Prix" (2005–2006). She reprised her roles in video game spin-offs of "Avatar" and "Fast & Furious", and also appeared in "" (2003), "Driver 3" (2004), and "Halo 2" (2004) and "".
What sport does Ramón Rodríguez play? [SEP] Daddy Yankee  Ramón Luis Ayala Rodríguez (born February 3, 1976), known professionally as Daddy Yankee, is a Puerto Rican rapper, singer, composer, and actor. Known as the "King of Reggaetón" by music critics and fans alike, he is the artist who coined the word "reggaeton" in 1991 in the mixtape Playero 34 in the song "So persigueme, no te detengas" to describe the new music genre that was emerging from Puerto Rico that synthesized American hip-hop, Hispanic Caribbean music, and Jamaican reggae rhythms with Spanish rapping and singing. He is often cited as an influence by other Hispanic urban performers.  Ayala was born in Río Piedras and was raised in the Villa Kennedy Housing Projects neighborhood. He aspired to be a professional baseball player and tried out for the Seattle Mariners of Major League Baseball.<ref name="shot"/> Before he could be officially signed, he was hit by a stray round from an AK-47 rifle while taking a break from a studio recording session with reggaeton artist DJ Playero.<ref name="shot"/> Ayala spent roughly a year and a half recovering from the wound; the bullet was never removed from his hip, and he credits the shooting incident with allowing him to focus entirely on a music career.<ref name="shot"/>   In 2004, Daddy Yankee released his international hit single "Gasolina", which is credited with introducing reggaeton to audiences worldwide, and making the music genre a global phenomenon. Since then, he has sold around 30 million records, making him one of the best-selling Latin music artists. Daddy Yankee's album "Barrio Fino" made history when it became the top-selling Latin music album of the decade between 2000 and 2009.   In 2017, Daddy Yankee, in collaboration with Latin pop singer Luis Fonsi, released the hit single "Despacito". It became the first Spanish-language song to hit number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 since "Macarena" in 1996. The single gained global success. The video for "Despacito" on YouTube received its billionth view on April 20, 2017, and became the most-watched video on the platform. Its success led Daddy Yankee to become the most-listened artist worldwide on the streaming service Spotify in June 2017, the first Latin artist to do so. In March 2022, Daddy Yankee announced that he would be retiring from music after the release of his upcoming seventh studio album "Legendaddy" and its supporting tour.  As of March 2022, Daddy Yankee has won 184 awards from 484 nominations (see List of awards and nominations received by Daddy Yankee). He has won five Latin Grammy Awards, two "Billboard" Music Awards, 14 "Billboard" Latin Music Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, eight Lo Nuestro Awards, an MTV Video Music Award, and six ASCAP Awards. He also received a Puerto Rican Walk of Fame star, special awards by "People en Español" magazine, and the Presencia Latina at Harvard University. He was named by CNN as the "Most Influential Hispanic Artist" of 2009, and included in "Time" 100 in 2006.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]  Torres began his career with Belgrano de Córdoba and has played for several clubs in Argentina including Racing Club de Avellaneda and Unión de Santa Fe. Torres also had a brief stint playing with Jeonbuk Hyundai Motors in South Korea.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]  Leonardo Bedolla Torres (born July 31, 1993 in Ayutla, Jalisco), known as Leonardo Torres, is a professional Mexican football.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]  Leonardo Sottani (born 1 November 1973 in Figline Valdarno) is a retired water polo player from Italy, who represented his native country at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. There the attacking forward (1m97) was a member of the men's national team that claimed the bronze medal. He participated at the 1996, 2000, and 2008 Summer Olympics representing the Italian National Waterpolo team. He played for the most successful waterpolo team in the world, Pro Recco, and helped the team win the Italian League and Coppa Italia in 2006 and 2007. He also played for RN Florentia.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]   César Leonardo Torres  (born 27 October 1975 in Córdoba) is an Argentine retired football midfielder.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]  Torres became the first Venezuelan-born player in National Basketball Association (NBA) history, when he signed with the Houston Rockets, for the 2001–02 NBA season. Torres averaged 6.0 points over the course of the season, and scored an NBA career-high 28 points against the Cleveland Cavaliers, on December 11, 2001. He spent the next season with the Golden State Warriors, and averaged 3.1 points per game. Torres led the Russian team Khimki Moscow Region to the 2006 EuroCup finals, before losing to DKV Joventut. Torres was transferred CSKA Moscow, from Khimki, in February 2007, and with them, he won the Russian Championship and the Russian Cup. He was released from CSKA in June that year. On August 21, 2007, he signed with the Italian League team Climamio Bologna.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP] List of premature professional wrestling deaths  According to a 2014 study by Eastern Michigan University examining professional wrestlers who were active between 1985 and 2011, mortality rates for professional wrestlers are up to 2.9 times greater than the rate for men in the wider United States population. A 2014 report by John Moriarty of the University of Manchester and Benjamin Morris of "FiveThirtyEight" also found that the mortality rate for professional wrestlers was significantly higher than that of athletes in other sports. Experts suggest that a combination of the physical nature of the business, no off-season, and potentially high work load (with some wrestlers fighting more than 100 and even 200 matches per year), along with the drug culture in wrestling during the 1970s, 1980s, and early 1990s contributes to high mortality rates among wrestlers. Another study ascribes the higher death rate largely to higher rates of cardiovascular disease compared to the general population with morbidly obese wrestlers being especially at risk. For the purposes of this list, wrestlers listed are those who died before age 65.  Many promotions employ performers as "independent contractors" and do not offer company-sponsored group health insurance coverage in most instances. This is said to have a causal connection to their longevity, morbidity and mortality. WWE performers' status as independent contractors was spotlighted by John Oliver on an episode of his show "Last Week Tonight with John Oliver" in March 2019, with Oliver calling on WWE fans to protest at WrestleMania 35.  The concept of the untimely deaths of professional wrestlers was a frequent topic of discussion on the "Opie & Anthony" show. After Scott Hall's death in 2022, Bret Hart and Kevin Nash talked about the premature death of several wrestlers, mentioning the mental and body damage as possible causes.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP] Robotics  Robotics is an interdisciplinary branch of computer science and engineering. Robotics involves design, construction, operation, and use of robots. The goal of robotics is to design machines that can help and assist humans. Robotics integrates fields of mechanical engineering, electrical engineering, information engineering, mechatronics, electronics, bioengineering, computer engineering, control engineering, software engineering, mathematics, etc.  Robotics develops machines that can substitute for humans and replicate human actions. Robots can be used in many situations for many purposes, but today many are used in dangerous environments (including inspection of radioactive materials, bomb detection and deactivation), manufacturing processes, or where humans cannot survive (e.g. in space, underwater, in high heat, and clean up and containment of hazardous materials and radiation). Robots can take any form, but some are made to resemble humans in appearance. This is claimed to help in the acceptance of robots in certain replicative behaviors which are usually performed by people. Such robots attempt to replicate walking, lifting, speech, cognition, or any other human activity. Many of today's robots are inspired by nature, contributing to the field of bio-inspired robotics.  Certain robots require user input to operate while other robots function autonomously. The concept of creating robots that can operate autonomously dates back to classical times, but research into the functionality and potential uses of robots did not grow substantially until the 20th century. Throughout history, it has been frequently assumed by various scholars, inventors, engineers, and technicians that robots will one day be able to mimic human behavior and manage tasks in a human-like fashion. Today, robotics is a rapidly growing field, as technological advances continue; researching, designing, and building new robots serve various practical purposes, whether domestically, commercially, or militarily. Many robots are built to do jobs that are hazardous to people, such as defusing bombs, finding survivors in unstable ruins, and exploring mines and shipwrecks. Robotics is also used in STEM (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) as a teaching aid.
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]
What sport does Leonardo Torres play? [SEP]
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP]  Oleg Yevgenyevich Imrekov (Олег Евгеньевич Имреков; 10 July 1962 – 26 January 2014 ) was a Russian professional footballer. His twin sons Arkadi Imrekov and Viktor Imrekov are professional footballers.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP]  His twin brother Arkadi Imrekov and father Oleg Imrekov are also professional footballers.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP]  Viktor Olegovich Imrekov (Виктор Олегович Имреков; born 14 December 1985) is a former Russian professional football player.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP]  His twin brother Viktor Imrekov and father Oleg Imrekov are also professional footballers.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP] Soviet Top League runner-up: 1991. ; USSR Federation Cup winner: 1990.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP] List of people from Omsk  This is a list of notable people who were born or have lived in Omsk, Russia.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP] 1991 Soviet Top League  The 1991 Soviet Top League season was the 54th since its establishment and the last one. Dynamo Kyiv were the defending 13-times champions. A total of sixteen teams participated in the league, twelve of them have contested in the 1990 season while the remaining four were promoted from the Soviet First League due to withdrawals. The representatives of the Baltic states as well as Georgia chose not to take part in the competition.  The season began on 10 March and lasted until 2 November 1991. The season was won by PFC CSKA Moscow that returned to the top league prior to the last season while winning the Soviet Cup competition as well. The season's culmination occurred in its final rounds, when the army team managed to overtake Spartak, while with four rounds left in the season, Spartak was leading the table a point ahead of CSKA and a recent thrashing of Dynamo Moscow 7 to 1.  Due to participants withdrawal in the preceding season four new teams entered the league. Upon the conclusion of the season no clubs were relegated and 12 out of its 16 participants formed a base for either the Russian or the Ukrainian competitions, while other four participants joined their own newly formed national leagues. If the Soviet Union had remained intact, Metalist Kharkiv and Lokomotiv Moscow would have been relegated to the Soviet First League for the next season, while FC Rotor Volgograd and FC Tiligul Tiraspol would have been promoted to the Top League for 1992.  The top six clubs of the league later entered European competitions for their respective nations. The Ukrainian clubs chose to qualify through a separate national competition.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP]
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP] 2017–18 FC Ararat Moscow season  The 2017–18 season is FC Ararat Moscow's first season of existing, during which they will play in the Russian Professional Football League and Russian Cup.
What sport does Oleg Imrekov play? [SEP] 2014–15 Russian Cup  The 2014–15 Russian Cup, known as the 2014–15 Pirelli–Russian Football Cup for sponsorship reasons, was the 23rd season of the Russian football knockout tournament since the dissolution of Soviet Union.  The competition started on 8 July 2014. The cup champion won a spot in the 2015–16 UEFA Europa League group stage.  The final match was played on 21 May 2015 at the Central Stadium in Astrakhan.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP]  Ali Sami Yachir (born January 2, 1985) is an Algerian football player who plays for ASO Chlef in the Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 2. In September 2013, a video of a miss by Yachir in a league match against CR Belouizdad went viral. The striker failed to score into an empty net after the goalkeeper had tripped over the ball.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP]  Born in Niamey, Yacouba began playing as a striker with local side AS Police and the Niger youth national teams. At age 18, he moved to Côte d'Ivoire to join Africa Sports National. At age 20, he moved to Algeria to join USM Alger
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP]  Ali was instrumental in Iraq winning the Bronze medal in the 2016 AFC U-23 Championship and their subsequent qualification to the 2016 Rio Olympics. Ali scored 2 goals in the U-23 Championship, including the equalizer against the UAE in the quarterfinal which took Iraq to extra time and gave them a 3-1 win. He also got an assist, and positive attacking play made him one of the stars of the tournament.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP]  Muhammad Yasir bin Hanapi (born 21 June 1989) is a Singaporean professional footballer who plays as a right midfielder for Singapore Premier League club Tampines Rovers FC and the Singapore national team. Yasir was part of the Singapore national under-23 team that took part in the 2007 Southeast Asian Games in Korat, Thailand that won a bronze medal. He was also part of the team which repeated their bronze medal success in Vientiane, Laos in 2009. Yasir originally played as a right-back but was converted to a right winger when he played for LionsXII in 2012.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP]  In his homeland, he played for CO Les Ulis (twice), Mende, US Saint-Georges and Sainte-Geneviève Sports at the beginning of his career, between the years of 2005 and 2010. He combined playing part-time with coaching children in the community.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP] List of Algerian football players in foreign leagues  This is a complete List of Algerian football players in foreign leagues, i.e. association football players who have played in foreign leagues.  For most of the twentieth century, most Algerian internationals played in the native Algerian Ligue Professionnelle 1; however, the national team has included some players based abroad from the beginning. While some in the 1960s and 1970s played for Algerian clubs, for example Hacène Lalmas and Mokhtar Khalem at CR Belcourt, others played in France, such as Sadek Boukhalfa with Nantes or Mustapha Zitouni with AS Monaco. Seven players of the squad for the 1982 FIFA World Cup came from a foreign club: Abdelmajid Bourebbou (Stade Lavallois), Mustapha Dahleb (Paris SG), Djamel Tlemcani (Stade de Reims), Djamel Zidane (KV Kortrijk), Karim Maroc (FC Tours), Faouzi Mansouri (Montpellier HSC) and Nourredine Kourichi (Girondins Bordeaux). By the time of the 1986 World Cup that number had increased to 11 (50% of the squad), and at the 2010 and 2014 tournaments almost all were playing abroad (there were three and two home-based players respectively in the 23-man squads).
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP] 2014–15 MC Alger season  In the 2014–15 season, MC Alger competed in the Ligue 1 for the 44th season, as well as the Algerian Cup. It is their 12th consecutive season in the top flight of Algerian football.
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP] List of foreign Ligue 1 players: A
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP] Ali Haidar (basketball) Ali Haidar (, born in Lebanon on 20 July 1990) is a Canadian basketball player of Lebanese origin. The 6'7" forward plays in Michigan Technological University's (MTU) Michigan Tech Huskies Men's basketball program in NCAA Division II. Haidar born in South Lebanon to Mohammad and Mona Haidar. He has four brothers and two sisters. He immigrated with his family to Canada in 2006, where he studied at J.L. Forster Secondary School in Windsor, Ontario, playing starting 2006–2007 season in the high school's Forster Spartans basketball team. While in Forster, he was named "most improved player" of his
What sport does Ali Sami Yachir play? [SEP] Nasri grew an attraction to the sport of football at a young age. He regularly played the sport on the streets where he learned many of his skills. Upon noticing his prodigious talent, his parents signed him up to play with the local club in his hometown. Nasri spent one year playing with the club in La Gavotte Peyret before moving to Pennes Mirabeau in nearby Mirabeau at age seven. While playing with Pennes, Nasri was discovered by Marseille scout Freddy Assolen, who had been informed of the player's talent through local word of mouth. After noticing Nasri's skill in
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]  Dr. Gergely "Gergő" Kiss (born 21 September 1977) is a Hungarian former water polo player. He was considered to be one of the best left-handed water polo players of his time. Kiss is one of ten male athletes who won three Olympic gold medals in water polo. He played on the right side, but moved to 2-meters on offense sometimes. Kiss dominated internationally in the 2004 Olympics in Athens, especially in final match against Serbia and Montenegro. The Hungarian team was not at its best in the first quarter, but Kiss was able to score thrice, helping them to keep up with their opponent. After the Hungarian side came back to tie the game in the fourth quarter, Kiss put in the game-winning goal on a 'power play' opportunity. He was voted to be in the all-star team along with teammate Tamás Kásás. Kiss first became known internationally at Olympic level during the 2000 Olympics in Sydney helping Hungary win gold in the finals. Kiss, nicknamed Geri, was greatly influenced by his coach Dénes Kemény. He finished studying law in 2005.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]  Gergő Kocsis (born 7 March 1994) is a Hungarian football player who plays for Mezőkövesd-Zsóry SE. He previously also played in Slovakia, Czechia, Germany and Poland.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]  Born in Budapest, Beliczky has played in Hungary and the Netherlands for Vasas SC, Zwolle, Ferencváros and Pápa.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]  Gergo Nagy (born October 10, 1989) is a Hungarian professional ice hockey forward. He is currently playing with Hungarian club, Ferencvárosi TC who compete in the Erste Liga. Nagy returned to Alba Volan on July 1, 2015, after two North American seasons within the Chicago Wolves organization of the American Hockey League (AHL). Nagy competed at the 2009 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships and 2016 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships as a member of the Hungary men's national ice hockey team.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]  István Kovács (born 28 February 1957 in Budapest, Hungary ) is a Hungarian water polo player and coach. He was the head coach of the Romania men's national water polo team at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, where his team finished tenth in the end.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP] Hungary at the 2008 Summer Olympics  Hungary competed at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, China. The country sent 131 individual competitors (77 men and 54 women) plus the men's and women's water polo teams and the women's handball team (13+13 + 14 athletes, respectively) for a total of 171 athletes taking part in the 2008 Summer Olympics. Hungary's gold medal count of 3 was the lowest in the nation's Summer Olympic history since the 1924 Paris Summer Olympics. Its total medal count of 10 was the lowest since the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam.
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]
What sport does Gergő Kovács play? [SEP]
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP]  Daigo Watanabe (渡邉 大剛) is a Japanese footballer who plays as a midfielder. His younger brothers Kazuma Watanabe and Mitsuki Watanabe are also footballers.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Daigo Watanabe (渡邉 大剛), Japanese footballer ; Daisuke Watanabe (disambiguation), multiple people
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP]  Watanabe was born in Hokkaido, and joined the team Toshiba Brave Lupus in Tokyo in 1997 after graduating from Nippon Sport Science University. He played 32 times for the national team and in Brave Lupus's hat-trick of Japanese domestic league titles between 2004 and 2006.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP]  Katsumi Watanabe (渡部 勝美) is a Japanese baseball player. He was awarded the bronze medal, along with the rest of the Japanese team, during baseball's first ever appearance as an official Olympic sport, during the 1992 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP]  In 2019, Watanabe was signed to the Adelaide Fire hockey team to compete in the inaugural tournament of the Sultana Bran Hockey One League, Australia's new premier domestic competition.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Daigo Watanabe
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Kazuma Watanabe  His older brother Daigo Watanabe was also a professional soccer player with Kyoto Sanga FC, Omiya Ardija, Busan IPark and Kamatamare Sanuki.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Watanabe  Watanabe ( and other variants) is a Japanese surname derived from the noble and samurai Watanabe clan, a branch of the Minamoto clan, descending from the Emperor Saga (786-842), the 52nd Emperor of Japan, and refers to a location called 'Watanabe no tsu' which was settled by the Watanabe clan, who took the name of the place. It was located in the medieval period near the mouth of the Yodogawa River in Settsu Province, in present-day city of Osaka.
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Takamitsu Tomiyama
What sport does Daigo Watanabe play? [SEP] Attack No. 1  The anime is an adaptation of Urano's 1968 volleyball manga serialized in Weekly Margaret Magazine under the same name. Urano was considered one of the founders of shōjo anime. and the series was introduced not only to push the older female manga fan base (as opposed to the significantly younger audience for magical girl series such as "Sally the Witch") into the anime mainstream, but also capitalizes on the boom of the gold medal Japanese women's volleyball team in the 1964 Olympics. The show did stand out in an era dominated by shōnen adventures and sci-fi anime, and was well received in the anime-friendly television markets of France (as ""Les Attaquantes""), Italy, (where it was originally retitled ""Quella magnifica dozzina"" and later ""Mimì e la nazionale di pallavolo"", where Kozue was renamed Mimì) and Germany (where it was retitled as ""Mila Superstar"", where Kozue was renamed Mila). The name Mila came from the immensely popular Italian version of 1984's "Attacker You!", in which the main character, You Hazuki, was renamed Mila.  A direct sequel was also released in manga format called "Shin Attack No.1 (New Attack No.1)" in 1976, but it was short-lived. The sequel was later redrawn between 2004 and 2005 in a new style by Kanon Ozawa.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]  The South Orange Open, formerly known as the Eastern Grass Court Championships, is a defunct Grand Prix affiliated tennis tournament played from 1970 to 1983. It was held in South Orange, New Jersey in the United States and played on outdoor grass courts from 1970-1974, and then played on outdoor clay courts from 1975 to 1983. There were men's and women's singles tournaments, as well as men's, women's, and mixed doubles. Ilie Năstase was the most successful player at the tournament, winning the singles competition three times on two different surfaces and the doubles competition twice with American Jimmy Connors.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]  The 1975 South Orange Open, also known as the Tennis Week Open, was a men's tennis tournament played on outdoor clay courts at the Orange Lawn Tennis Club in South Orange, New Jersey, USA. It was classified as a Group B category tournament and was part of the 1975 Grand Prix circuit. It was the sixth edition of the tournament on the Grand Prix circuit and was held from August 18 through August 24, 1975. Ilie Năstase won the singles title. The final was delayed for two days due to rain.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]  The WTA South Carolina is a defunct WTA Tour affiliated tennis tournament played from 1985 to 1987. It was held in two locations; once on Seabrook Island, in 1985, and the final two times at the Wild Dunes on the Isle of Palms. The competition was played on outdoor clay courts.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]  The Orange Lawn Tennis Club is the second oldest tennis club in New Jersey. Located in South Orange, it was established after the Seabright Lawn Tennis and Cricket Club. In 1887, Orange Lawn hosted the first men's doubles event of the US Open, then called the U.S. National Championship. The club also hosted the 1946 Davis Cup and the Eastern Lawn Championship.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]  having endured frequent injuries since 2011. ; 🇬🇧 Melanie South (born 3 May 1986 in Kingston upon Thames, United Kingdom), turned professional in 2004. South reached a career high ranking of number 99 in February 2009 in singles and number 120 in March 2009 in doubles. South won no titles on the WTA tour during her career, but won six titles on the ITF tour. South progressed to the second round of Grand Slam events on one occasion and scored wins over several top players including Francesca Schiavone, Alicia Molik, Sybille Bammer and Petra Kvitová. South announced her retirement from tennis in December
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP] Clay court  A clay court is one of the types of tennis court on which the sport of tennis, originally known as "lawn tennis", is played. Clay courts are made of crushed stone, brick, shale, or other unbound mineral aggregate depending on the tournament.   The French Open uses clay courts, the only Grand Slam tournament to do so. Clay courts are more common in Continental Europe and Latin America than in North America, Asia-Pacific or Britain.  Two main types exist: red clay, the more common variety, and green clay, also known as "rubico", which is a harder surface. Although less expensive to construct than other types of tennis courts, the maintenance costs of clay are high as the surface must be rolled to preserve flatness.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP] Gabriela Sabatini  Gabriela Beatriz Sabatini (; born 16 May 1970) is an Argentine-Italian former professional tennis player. A former world No. 3 in both singles and doubles, Sabatini was one of the leading players from the mid-1980s to the mid-1990s, amassing 41 titles. In singles, Sabatini won the 1990 US Open, the Tour Finals in 1988 and 1994, and was runner-up at Wimbledon 1991, the 1988 US Open, and the silver medalist at the 1988 Olympics. In doubles, Sabatini won Wimbledon in 1988 partnering Steffi Graf, and reached three French Open finals. Among Open era players who did not reach the world No. 1 ranking, Sabatini has the most wins over reigning world No. 1 ranked players. In 2006, she was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame and in 2018 "Tennis" Magazine ranked her as the 20th-greatest female player of the preceding 50 years.
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP]
What sport does WTA South Orange play? [SEP] Women's Tennis Association  The Women's Tennis Association (WTA) is the principal organizing body of women's professional tennis. It governs the WTA Tour which is the worldwide professional tennis tour for women and was founded to create a better future for women's tennis. The WTA's corporate headquarters is in St. Petersburg, Florida, with its European headquarters in London and its Asia-Pacific headquarters in Beijing.  The Women's Tennis Association was founded in June 1973 by Billie Jean King, and traces its origins to the inaugural Virginia Slims tournament, arranged by Gladys Heldman, sponsored by Joe Cullman, CEO of Philip Morris, and held on 23 September 1970 at the Houston Racquet Club in Houston, Texas. Rosie Casals won this first event.  When the Women's Tennis Association was founded, Billie Jean King was one of nine players that comprised the WTA, also referred to as the Original 9, that included Julie Heldman, Valerie Ziegenfuss, Judy Dalton, Kristy Pigeon, Peaches Bartkowicz, Kerry Melville Reid, Nancy Richey, and Rosie Casals. Today, the WTA has more than 2,500 players from nearly 100 countries competing for $146 million in prize money.  In December 2021, following Peng Shuai's endangerment by the Chinese government, the WTA suspended its operations in China and Hong Kong.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP]  Shuto Suzuki (鈴木 修人) is a former Japanese football player. In February 2015, Suzuki announced his retirement from football.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP]  Shuto Ando (安藤 周人) is a Japanese professional basketball player who plays for Nagoya Diamond Dolphins of the B.League in Japan. He represented the country in basketball. He is a native of the Mie Prefecture.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP]  On October 26, 2017, Shuto was drafted as a developmental squad player (:ja:育成選手制度 (日本プロ野球)) by the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks in the 2017 Nippon Professional Baseball draft. In 2018 season, he played in informal matches against Shikoku Island League Plus's teams and amateur baseball teams, and played in the Western League of NPB's minor leagues. On October 3, despite being a developmental squad player, he was selected as the Japan national baseball team for the 2018 U-23 Baseball World Cup because of his speed and defense. On March 26, 2019, Shuto signed a 6 million yen contract with the Fukuoka SoftBank Hawks
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP]  Shuto was born in Oita Prefecture on June 8, 1983. He joined J1 League club Kashima Antlers from youth team in 2002. Although he played only 1 match in 2005 Emperor's Cup, he could only play this match behind Hitoshi Sogahata until 2006. In October 2006, he was loaned to Regional Leagues club Japan Soccer College with teammate Ryuta Sasaki. In 2007, he returned to Antlers. In 2008, he moved to J2 League club Mito HollyHock. However he could hardly play in the match behind Koji Homma. In 2010, he moved to J2 club Sagan Tosu. However he could not play at all in the match behind Taku Akahoshi and Takuya Muro. He retired end of 2010 season.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP]  Shuto participated three times in the Japan National Collegiate Baseball Championship and once in the Meiji Shrine Baseball Championship while studying at the Tokyo University of Agriculture Hokkaido Okhotsk. In 2017, he was selected most valuable player in the Hokkaido Universities Baseball League.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP] Suzuki (surname)  Suzuki (written: lit. "bell wood", "bell tree" or "bud tree") is a Japanese surname. As of 2008, it is the second most common surname in Japan, after Satō, with 1.9 million people registered. It is said to have been named by the Hozumi clan (穂積氏) in the Heian period (794-1185), after suzuki, which means "the ears of rice piled up" in the dialect of southern Wakayama and Mie prefectures (also known as Kumano). 鈴木 are "ateji".
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP] 2021 All Japan High School Soccer Tournament  The 2021 All Japan High School Soccer Tournament (All Japan JFA 100th High School Soccer Tournament (Japanese: 第100回全国高等学校サッカー選手権大会)) marked the 100th edition of the referred annually contested cup for High Schools over Japan. As usual, the tournament was contested by 48 High Schools, with 1 High School per Prefecture being qualified for the tournament, with an exception made for the Tokyo, which have 2 High School representing their Prefecture. The final was played at the Japan National Stadium, in Tokyo.  The Yamanashi Gakuin High School were the defending champions, after winning the 2020 edition, winning over Aomori Yamada by 4–2 on a penalty shoot-out. However, they were eliminated in their first match on the 2021 tournament, losing 2–0 to Saga Higashi. In the end, Aomori Yamada won their 3rd title, with a 4–0 win in the final against Kumamoto Ozu, who qualified for the final over Kanto Daiichi's withdrawal on the semi-finals, due to coronavirus-related issues that prevented their participation on the semi-finals.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP] List of J3 League transfers winter 2016–17  This is a list of Japanese football J3 League transfers in the winter transfer window 2016–17 by club.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP] 2012 FC Machida Zelvia season  The 2012 FC Machida Zelvia season saw FC Machida Zelvia compete in J.League Division 2 for the first time after being promoted from the 2011 Japan Football League. Machida Zelvia were relegated back to the Japan Football League on the last day of the season after a 0-3 defeat to Shonan Bellmare. They are also competing in the 2012 Emperor's Cup.
What sport does Shuto Suzuki play? [SEP] Japan national baseball team  The is the national team representing Japan in international baseball competitions. It won the World Baseball Classic in 2006 and 2009, as well as WBSC Premier12 in 2019. The team is currently ranked 1st in the world by the World Baseball Softball Confederation.<ref name="WBSC World Rankings"/>  The team has participated in every Summer Olympic Games since the first demonstration tournament in 1984, through when baseball was discontinued following the 2008 Beijing Games. Until 2000, the team was made up exclusively of amateur players. Since the 2000 Summer Olympics, the team has been composed of players from Nippon Professional Baseball. The team that played in the 2006 World Baseball Classic included Japanese players from Major League Baseball as well.  The team won the 2006 Classic. It played at the Beijing Olympics in 2008, as it had qualified through the Asian Baseball Championship in 2007. Unlike the WBC roster, the Olympic team was composed exclusively of NPB players (though it included one amateur player, who was drafted during the tournament's progress). Japan participated in the 2017 World Baseball Classic, finishing third.  Team Japan won the 2019 WBSC Premier12 Tournament. At the Olympics in 2021 it faced Israel, Mexico, South Korea, the United States, and the Dominican Republic.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP]  Hans Cornelis (born 13 October 1982) is a Belgian former professional footballer who played as a right-back.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP]  Johannes Cornelis "Hans" Tetzner (9 June 1898 – 17 February 1987) was a Dutch association football defender and medical doctor. He was part of the Dutch team that finished fourth at the 1924 Summer Olympics. Between 1915 and 1926 he played for Be Quick 1887, winning nine Northern Dutch titles and one national title in 1920. Hans Tetzner had an elder brother Max; they competed alongside both in football and speed skating. Hans also played tennis, once reaching the semifinals of the Dutch national doubles championships. He later became a prominent surgeon and served as a doctor for the football club AFC Ajax and for the 1936 Dutch Olympic cycling team. In the 1960s he was a regular guest at the television show Wie van de Drie?
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP]   Hans Karel Daniël Smits (born January 24, 1956 in Den Helder, North Holland) is a former water polo player from The Netherlands, who won the bronze medal with the Dutch Men's Team at the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP]  Hans Tjebbe Kruize (born 23 May 1954) is a former field hockey player from the Netherlands. He participated in the 1976 and 1984 Olympic Games and ended up in fourth and in sixth place, respectively. Just like his brothers Ties and Hidde, and his father Roepie, he played club hockey for HC Klein Zwitserland from The Hague. The midfielder earned a total number of 99 caps, scoring fourteen goals, in the years 1974–1984. He won a European title in 1974.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP]  Jean Cornelis (2 August 1941 – 21 March 2016) was a Belgian football player. He was born in Lot. He played for R.S.C. Anderlecht and the Belgium national team. Cornelis played in the match Belgium-Netherlands in 1964 with 10 fellows from the Anderlecht team after the substitution of goalkeeper Delhasse by Jean-Marie Trappeniers. He worked for R.S.C. Anderlecht.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP] Hans Tetzner  Johannes Cornelis "Hans" Tetzner (9 June 1898 – 17 February 1987) was a Dutch association football defender and medical doctor. He was part of the Dutch team that finished fourth at the 1924 Summer Olympics. Between 1915 and 1926 he played for Be Quick 1887, winning nine Northern Dutch titles and one national title in 1920.<ref name=r1/>  Hans Tetzner had an elder brother Max; they competed alongside both in football and speed skating. Hans also played tennis, once reaching the semifinals of the Dutch national doubles championships. He later became a prominent surgeon and served as a doctor for the football club AFC Ajax and for the 1936 Dutch Olympic cycling team. In the 1960s he was a regular guest at the television show "Wie van de Drie?"<ref name=r1/>
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP] K.S.C. Lokeren-Temse  Koninklijke Sporting Club Lokeren Temse often simply called Lokeren-Temse or Lokeren) is a Belgian professional football club based in the city of Lokeren, in the province of East Flanders. The club was originally founded in 1945 as KSV Temse in the neighbouring town of Temse but following the bankruptcy of K.S.C. Lokeren Oost-Vlaanderen in 2020 both clubs merged to form K.S.C. Lokeren-Temse.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP] Gregory Mertens  Gregory Mertens (2 February 1991 – 30 April 2015) was a Belgian professional football player. His usual position was central defender. He last played for Lokeren.
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP] Cornelius (name)  Cornelius is an originally Roman masculine name. Its derivation is uncertain but is suspected to be from the Latin "cornu", "horn".
What sport does Hans Cornelis play? [SEP] Thomas Buffel  Thomas Buffel (, born 19 February 1981) is a Belgian former professional footballer who played as an attacking midfielder or forward. He represented the Belgium national team at international level.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP]  Masahito Noto (能登 正人) is a Japanese footballer.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP]  Noto was born in Osaka, Japan, and has played for SV Gonsenheim, the Hannover 96 reserve team, Buriram United, and Chainat F.C..
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP]  Kentaro used to play Baseball before and he aimed to be professional baseball player. But at 15 years old, he broke his elbow so he had to quit playing baseball. After that, he attended at Yonezawa Chuo High School, he started to play volleyball and had an initiation about his future career as a volleyball player. In 2012, He had selected as a Japan men's national under-19 volleyball team for the first time and received the bronze medal from the 2012 Asian Youth Boys Volleyball Championship. In 2014, Kentaro had registered in Japan men's national volleyball team for the first time and entered University of Tsukuba respectively. Then, he was dubbed by the then national team coach Masashi Nanbu as one of "NEXT4", the word that referred to 4 players who would be the future of Japanese men's national team, alongside Masahiro Yanagida, Yūki Ishikawa and Akihiro Yamauchi. In 2016, Kentaro decided to join Toray Arrows volleyball club in V.League and started playing for the team in 2016-17 season.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP]  Noto attended St. Peter's Boys High School and played college baseball at John Jay.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP]  Yanagida started playing volleyball at 7 years old under the influence of his parents. While attending Toyo High School in 2010, his school participated in the 41st Spring High Tournament. He led his team to win the championships as the captain. In 2011, he entered Keio University in the Faculty of Environment and Information studies. He was registered as a member of Japan men's national volleyball team in 2013. In October of the same year, it was announced he would debut in the V.League (Japanese Volleyball League) with Suntory Sunbirds. He made his debut on 14 March 2015 by participating in the final 6 match against Panasonic Panthers. On 24 April 2017 Suntory Sunbirds announced that Yanagita would leave the team at the Kurowashiki All Japan Volleyball Tournament and transfer overseas as a professional contract player. On 21 June 2017 he announced that he would play overseas in Deutsche
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP] Masahito Noto
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP] 2014 Thai Division 1 League  2014 Thai League Division 1 (known as Yamaha League 1 for sponsorship reasons) is the 17th season of the League since its establishment in 1997. It is the feeder league for the Thai Premier League. A total of 18 teams will compete in the league this season.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP] Persiba Balikpapan  Persatuan Sepakbola Indonesia Balikpapan, commonly known as Persiba Balikpapan, is an professional football club based in Balikpapan, East Kalimantan, Indonesia. The club plays in Liga 2, after relegation from Liga 1 in 2017 season.  The club is nicknamed "Beruang Madu" (The Sun Bear), taken from the city mascot of Balikpapan. Founded in 1950 and the club play their home games at the Batakan Stadium, which has a capacity of 40,000. In media, the tautology is often used and to distinguish the club with another club with the same acronym, Persiba Bantul. Another nickname given is "Selicin Minyak" (slippery as oil) because Balikpapan is the center for oil and gas industry of Indonesia.  Persiba play in all-blue kits at home matches. They rivals are Borneo an Mitra Kukar, two clubs also based in the East Kalimantan province.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP] 2013 Thai Premier League  The 2013 Thai Premier League (also known as "Toyota Thai Premier League" due to the sponsorship from Toyota) is the 17th season of the Thai Premier League since its establishment in 1996. A total of 18 teams are competing in the league. It will begin in 2 March 2013 to 3 November 2013.  Muangthong United are the defending champions, having won their Thai Premier League title the previous season. they win the Thai Premier League is a third of the club and Muangthong United became the first team in Thai Premier League to go the season unbeaten in the current 34-game format.
What sport does Masahito Noto play? [SEP] 2017 Liga 1 (Indonesia)  The 2017 Liga 1, also known as Go-Jek Traveloka Liga 1 for sponsorship reasons, was the inaugural season of Liga 1 under its current name and the eighth season of the top-flight Indonesian professional league for association football clubs since its establishment in 2008. The season started on 15 April 2017 and ended on 12 November 2017. Fixtures for the 2017 season were announced on 11 April 2017.  2014 Indonesia Super League winners Persib were the defending champions, as the 2015 Indonesia Super League was abandoned midway due to FIFA suspension while the 2016 Indonesia Soccer Championship A was not counted as an official league.  Bhayangkara won their first Liga 1 title with one match to spare.  The season was marred by the death of Persela goalkeeper Choirul Huda.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]  MacDonald was born in Beswick, Manchester and played his early football for Ancoats Lads Club, as well as representing Manchester Schools. After leaving school, he was employed by Rolls-Royce at Derby from where he joined Derby County in 1920, although he made no first-team appearances. The following year, he joined Burton All Saints where he was spotted by a scout from Southampton. Described as a "fine winger", he joined Southampton in May 1923, making his first-team debut in a Second Division match at home to Barnsley on 19 January 1924, when he replaced the injured Jimmy Carr. MacDonald retained his place on the
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]  MacDonald was drafted in the sixth round, 160th overall, by the New York Islanders in the 2006 NHL Entry Draft. He played junior hockey for the Moncton Wildcats of the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League where he was, along with Keith Yandle, a star defenceman on the team's 2005–06 championship team. He has also played for the Bridgeport Sound Tigers, the Islander's AHL affiliate. In the 2009–10 season, MacDonald scored his first NHL goal on December 17, 2009, in a 5-2 loss to the New York Rangers. On February 25, 2010, MacDonald was re-signed by the Islanders to a four-year contract extension.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]  Andrew MacDonald (born September 7, 1986) is a Canadian professional ice hockey defenceman who is currently an unrestricted free agent. He most recently played with SC Bern in the National League (NL). He has previously played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the New York Islanders and the Philadelphia Flyers, serving as an alternate captain for both franchises.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]  Elias MacDonald (11 April 1898 – 4 April 1978) was an English footballer who played at outside left for various clubs in the 1920s.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]  MacDonald played one game of professional roller hockey when he suited up for the Ottawa Loggers (RHI) in 1996.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP]
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP] Elias (wrestler)  Jeffrey Daniel Sciullo (born November 22, 1987) is an American professional wrestler and musician. He is currently signed to WWE, where he performs on the Raw brand under the ring name Elias.  Under the name Elias, shortened from Elias Samson, he portrays a musician who often uses music to mock his opponents or the fans in attendance. Sciullo began his WWE career on the NXT brand, appearing there from 2014 to 2017 where he developed his "Drifter" ring character. Prior to joining WWE, he worked for various companies on the independent circuit under the ring name Logan Shulo. In 2018, the album "" was released by the WWE Music Group featuring Sciullo followed by "Universal Truth" in 2020.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP] Bo Diddley  Ellas McDaniel (born Ellas Otha Bates; December 30, 1928 – June 2, 2008), known professionally as Bo Diddley, was an American guitarist who played a key role in the transition from the blues to rock and roll. He influenced many artists, including Buddy Holly, Elvis Presley, The Beatles, The Rolling Stones, The Animals, George Thorogood, and The Clash.  His use of African rhythms and a signature beat, a simple five-accent hambone rhythm, is a cornerstone of hip hop, rock, and pop music. In recognition of his achievements, he was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 1987, the Blues Hall of Fame in 2003, and the Rhythm and Blues Music Hall of Fame in 2017. Diddley is also recognized for his technical innovations, including his use of tremolo and reverb effects to enhance the sound of his distinctive rectangular-shaped guitars.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP] Sagesse SC (basketball)  Sagesse Sports Club (), known as Hekmeh () in Arabic, is a Lebanese sports club based in Beirut.  The basketball team was established in 1992, as part of the Club Sagesse established in 1943 with mainly the football (soccer) team.
What sport does Elias MacDonald play? [SEP] Taylor McDonald  Taylor Rae McDonald (born May 12, 1993) is a Canadian curler from Edmonton. She currently plays lead on Team Casey Scheidegger. McDonald previously played second for Team Laura Walker and Team Kelsey Rocque, with whom she won gold at the 2014 World Junior Curling Championships and the 2017 Winter Universiade.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]  Mikhail Vitalyevich Petrusyov (Михаил Витальевич Петрусёв; born 21 November 1994) is a Russian football player who plays for FC SKA Rostov-on-Don.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]  He made his debut in the Russian Second Division for FC Dnepr Smolensk on 18 April 2011 in a game against FC Dynamo Kostroma. He made his Russian Football National League debut for FC Khimki on 11 July 2016 in a game against FC Tosno.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]  Aleksey Petrovich Rastvortsev (Алексей Петрович Растворцев; born August 8, 1978) is a Russian handball player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics (bronze winner) and in the 2008 Summer Olympics. He played for the Russian National Handball Team 251 match and scored over 900 goals. In his career he played for HC Neva (St. Peterburg), HC Energija (Voronez), HC Chekhovskie Medvedi (Chekhov, Moskovskaja oblast), RK Vardar (Skopje) and RK Vojvodina (Novi Sad). He finished his active sports career in 2016 and since then he is deputy sport director in RK Vardar; they won the EHF Champions League in 2017.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]  Natalya Petrusyova trained at Burevestnik. Competing for the Soviet Union, Petrusyova was a very successful skater &ndash; once Olympic Champion (on the 1,000 m), twice World Allround Champion, once World Sprint Champion, twice European Allround Champion, three times Soviet Allround Champion, twice Soviet Sprint Champion, and ten-time world record holder. Petrusyova was awarded the Order of Friendship of Peoples in 1980. After her speed skating career had ended, Petrusyova became the senior speed skating coach at the Committee for Physical Culture and Sports in Moscow. At the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin, she was the senior coach of the Russian speed skating team. She married Vladimir Komarov, a Soviet Olympic speed skater.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]  Alexandr Borisovich Zinchenko (Александр Борисович Зинченко; born 6 February 1995) is a Russian badminton player. Zinchenko started playing badminton at the Solntsevo Sports School in Moscow, at the age of eight. His mother took Zinchenko there, because she was fond of badminton and played as an amateur. He made a debut in the international senior tournament in 2012. In 2014, he won the Turkey International tournament partnered with Konstantin Abramov. In 2016, he won the Estonian International tournament in the mixed doubles event partnered with Olga Morozova. In 2017, he and Abramov won the Swedish International Series tournament.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP] Mikhail Petrusyov  Mikhail Vitalyevich Petrusyov (; born 21 November 1994) is a Russian football player.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP]
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP] 2011–12 FC Lokomotiv Moscow season  The 2011–12 Lokomotiv Moscow season involved the club competing in Russian Premier League, Russian Cup and Europa League.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP] 2012–13 FC Lokomotiv Moscow season  The 2012–13 Lokomotiv Moscow season involved the club competing in the Russian Premier League and Russian Cup. It was Slaven Bilić's first season as manager and ended with the worst league result of the team (9th, the lower part of the table) since establishing of Russian Championship in 1992. As a result, the contract of Bilić was terminated by mutual agreement on 17 June 2013.
What sport does Mikhail Petrusyov play? [SEP] 2016–17 FC Anzhi Makhachkala season  The 2016–17 FC Anzhi Makhachkala season was the club's second season back in the Russian Premier League, the highest tier of football in Russia, since their relegation at the end of the 2013–14 season. Anzhi finished the season in twelfth, narrowly avoiding a Relegation play-off thanks to their head-to-head record against FC Orenburg, whilst also reaching the Quarterfinals of the Russian Cup, where they were knocked out by FC Ufa.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP]  Kwak Hee-Ju (born 5 October 1981) is a South Korean footballer who plays as a defender who last played for Suwon Samsung Bluewings. At first, he did not enjoy much success with the team, but since early of 2004, he has become one of the key players of defence of Suwon Samsung Bluewings. He was member of South Korea that parted East Asian Cup 2008 and World Cup qualifier of 2006 and 2010.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] South Korea ; EAFF East Asian Cup: 2008
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP]  Kwak Chang-Hee (born July 26, 1987) is a former South Korean football player. On 17 June 2011, his football career was rescinded by the Korea Professional Football League with other accomplices.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] 2004 K-League Yearly Best 11 (Defender) ; 2008 Windsor Awards Korean Football Best 11 (Defender)
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP]  Ju Kwon (also known as Joo Kwan, born May 31, 1995) is a Chinese-Korean baseball pitcher who plays with the KT Wiz in the KBO League. On May 27, 2016, he recorded nine scoreless innings, four hits, and four strikeouts against Nexen, recording his first complete victory in his debut. Ju represented China at the 2017 World Baseball Classic.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] Kwak Hee-ju  Kwak Hee-Ju (born 5 October 1981) is a South Korean footballer who plays as a defender who last played for Suwon Samsung Bluewings.  At first, he did not enjoy much success with the team, but since early of 2004, he has become one of the key players of defence of Suwon Samsung Bluewings.  He was member of South Korea that parted East Asian Cup 2008 and World Cup qualifier of 2006 and 2010.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] Cho Won-hee  Cho Won-hee (, ; born 17 April 1983) is a South Korean former professional footballer, who played as a right-back or a defensive midfielder. Aside of his considerably long playing time with several teams of the K League, he also experienced spells in England, China and Japan.  In his home-country, he's also known as an Internet sensation, as he runs a YouTube channel hosting special training sessions (sometimes in collaboration with fellow footballer and YouTuber Lee Min-a) and covering national and international football, as well as his own experiences as a player.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] Kwak (Korean surname)  Kwak () is a Korean surname.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] Super Match  The Super Match () is a name for a football rivalry between two South Korean football teams from the Seoul Capital Area, FC Seoul and Suwon Samsung Bluewings. The match and the rivalry between the two teams is regarded as the biggest in South Korean K League.  The first match was played in 1996. The rivalry became more fierce in 2004, after Anyang LG Cheetahs relocated to Seoul and changed the club's name to FC Seoul.
What sport does Kwak Hee-ju play? [SEP] Suwon Samsung Bluewings  The Suwon Samsung Bluewings () are a South Korean football club based in Suwon that competes in the K League 1, the top tier of South Korean football. Founded in December 1995, they have won the national championship on four occasions (1998, 1999, 2004 and 2008), as well as the Asian Club Championship (the predecessor to the AFC Champions League) twice, in 2000–01 and 2001–02.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP]  Daniel James Parkinson is an English footballer who plays as a Midfielder. He currently plays for Barrow in the Conference North.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP]  Parkinson came through the Morecambe youth academy to sign a one-year contract for the 2011–12 season. He made his first team debut as an 89th-minute substitute for Kevin Ellison in a 2–0 win over Aldershot Town at the Globe Arena on 20 August 2011. Three days later he was again a late replacement for Ellison in a 2–0 defeat to Millwall in a League Cup Second Round clash at The Den. Parkinson was released by Morecambe at the end of the 2012–13 season. He subsequently signed for Barrow of the Conference North.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP]  Andrew Parkinson (born 21 September 1967) is a former Australian former professional basketball player in the National Basketball League. Known as "Parky", he played for the Geelong Supercats (1988–1990), Southern Melbourne Saints (1991, when he was included in the NBL All-Star Southern team), and the South East Melbourne Magic (1992–1998). He won two NBL championships in 1992 & 1996 with the Magic. Other accolades include Most Improved Player in 1991 and Free Throw Percentage Leader in 1992. Following his basketball career, Parkinson was a media personality, hosting an early incarnation of World Sport Overnight on SEN 1116 in early 2004 and working with South Dragons NBL basketball team during their short reign. Parky now plays at MSAC and is regarded as the dirtiest player in K-grade. Parky plays in the Balwyn Championship league where his team were runners up to the Valhalla Vikings 37-40 who have been the dominate team in the league for many years.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP]  Dan first made the New Zealand team in 2001, playing a 5 test series against Australia for the Chris Handy Cup, held in Christchurch. He has competed in four World Championships: Gothenburg 2002, Christchurch 2006, Vancouver 2010 and Odense 2014. He was part of the team that won Silver at the Christchurch 2006 World Championships; the Wheel Blacks lost to the USA in the final. He competed as part of the Wheel Blacks in the Athens 2004 Paralympic Games where they won the gold medal, as well as the Beijing 2008 Paralympic Games where they finished 5th. Dan captained the Wheel Blacks from 2007 - 2013, and again from 2015 - 2016. Dan has also competed for domestic clubs internationally, including Victoria in Australia, Denver and Lakeshore in the USA, and Quebec in Canada.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP]  Parkinson was an All-American player for the USAO Drovers men's soccer team.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP] Dan Parkinson (footballer)  Daniel James Parkinson is an English footballer who plays as a midfielder. He played in the Football League for Morecambe.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP] Phil Parkinson  Philip John Parkinson (born 1 December 1967) is an English professional football manager and former player who played as a midfielder. He is currently manager of National League side Wrexham.  Parkinson is the only manager to take an English fourth-tier league club to the final of a major cup competition at Wembley Stadium, leading Bradford City of League Two to the 2013 League Cup final.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP] List of people diagnosed with Parkinson's disease  Famous people, past and present, with Parkinson's disease include:
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP] Bob Probert  Robert Alan Probert (June 5, 1965 – July 5, 2010) was a Canadian professional ice hockey forward. Probert played for the National Hockey League's Detroit Red Wings and Chicago Blackhawks. While a successful player by some measures, including being voted to the 1987–88 Campbell Conference all-star team, Probert was best known for his activities as a fighter and enforcer, as well as being one half of the "Bruise Brothers" with then-Red Wing teammate Joey Kocur, during the late 1980s and early 1990s. Probert was also known for his off-ice antics and legal problems.
What sport does Dan Parkinson play? [SEP] Wrexham A.F.C.  Wrexham Association Football Club () is a Welsh professional association football club based in Wrexham, Wales. The team competes in the National League, the fifth tier of the English football league system. Formed in 1864, they are the oldest club in Wales and the third oldest professional association football team in the world.  The club initially participated in friendlies and cup competitions, and first entered a league by joining The Combination in 1890. They spent 13 seasons in the Combination and two seasons in the Welsh Senior League, winning four Combination titles and two Welsh Senior League titles. They entered the Birmingham & District League in 1905, where they would remain until becoming inaugural members of the Football League's Third Division North in 1921. They spent 47 years in the Northern section until they were placed in the re-organised Third Division in 1958 and then relegated two years later. Wrexham were promoted out of the Fourth Division in 1961–62, only to be relegated again two years later. Another promotion followed in 1969–70 and they reached the second tier for the first time after winning the Third Division title in 1977–78. Two successive relegations saw them back in the fourth tier by 1983 and they took until 1992–93 before seeing another promotion. Relegated once more in 2002, they gained immediate promotion in 2002–03, before worsening financial problems resulted in another relegation and then administration in December 2004. It took 18 months for the club to exit administration and the club's decline on the pitch continued, as they dropped out of the Football League in 2008. Wrexham have been out of the Football League ever since, and have had five unsuccessful play-off campaigns in the fifth tier.  Wrexham's honours include winning the Welsh Cup a record 23 times, the Football League Trophy in 2005 at the Millennium Stadium and the FA Trophy in 2013 at Wembley Stadium. The club are also record winners of the short-lived FAW Premier Cup, winning it five times out of the 11 years of its tenure, participating against fellow Welsh clubs such as Cardiff City, Swansea City and Newport County. However, their biggest rivalries are with English clubs, Chester and Shrewsbury Town, with games between the clubs known as the Cross-border derby. In 1992, Wrexham upset the reigning English Champions Arsenal in the FA Cup. They also scored a 1–0 victory over FC Porto in 1984 in the European Cup Winners' Cup. Wrexham were eligible for the European Cup Winners' Cup due to winning the Welsh Cup; their first European tie was against FC Zürich of Switzerland in 1972 and their last was played in Romania against Petrolul Ploiești in 1995. Wrexham's home stadium, the Racecourse Ground, is the world's oldest international stadium that still continues to host international games. The record attendance at the ground was set in 1957, when the club hosted a match against Manchester United in front of 34,445 spectators.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP]  He moved to live in Birmingham and was an electricity generating board engineer by trade.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP]  William Wilkinson (born 1934), is a male former athlete who competed for England.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP]  William Wilkinson (born April 22, 1947) is a retired Canadian ice hockey coach. He coached the Wayne State Warriors men's ice hockey program for its entire 9-year existence at the Division I level. Prior to that, Wilkinson coach the Western Michigan for seventeen seasons.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP]  Robert Raymond Wilkinson (October 8, 1927 – September 12, 2016) was an American football end who played for the New York Giants. He played college football at the University of California, Los Angeles, having previously attended Loyola High School in Los Angeles, California. He died of complications of Parkinson's disease in 2016.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP]  Wilkinson played for St. Lawrence for three years, leading the team in scoring as a sophomore and serving as the team captain in his senior season. After graduating in 1970 Wilkinson taught high school for a year before returning to Canton as an assistant coach for his alma mater. Wilkinson served as an assistant for St. Lawrence for seven years, leaving to accept a similar position at North Dakota for one season. He spent a further three seasons as an assistant at Bowling Green under Jerry York before getting his first head coaching job at Western Michigan. After a poor showing in his first year the Broncos produced their first 20+ win season at the D-I level, earning Wilkinson the CCHA Coach of the
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP] Bill Wilkinson (baseball)  William Carl Wilkinson (born August 10, 1964) is an American former professional baseball pitcher. A left-handed pitcher, Wilkinson played for Major League Baseball's (MLB) Seattle Mariners in 1985, and from 1987 to 1988. During his career, he had a 5–8 record, 4.56 earned run average (ERA) and 103 strikeouts in 113⅓ innings pitched.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP] Bud Wilkinson  Charles Burnham "Bud" Wilkinson (April 23, 1916 – February 9, 1994) was an American football player, coach, broadcaster, and politician. He served as the head football coach at the University of Oklahoma from 1947 to 1963, compiling a record of 145–29–4. His Oklahoma Sooners won three national championships (1950, 1955, and 1956) and 14 conference titles. Between 1953 and 1957, Wilkinson's Oklahoma squads won 47 straight games, a record that still stands at the highest level of college football. After retiring from coaching following the 1963 season, Wilkinson entered into politics and, in 1965, became a broadcaster with ABC Sports. He returned to coaching in 1978, helming the St. Louis Cardinals of the National Football League for two seasons. Wilkinson was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame as a coach in 1969.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP] 1917 Florida Gators football team  The 1917 Florida Gators football team represented the University of Florida during the 1917 college football season. The season was Alfred L. Buser's first of three as the head coach of the Florida Gators football team. The 1917 season was a disappointment; the team completed their football season with an SIAA conference record of 1–3 and an overall record of 2–4.
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP] Bill Horn  William Horn (born April 16, 1967) is a Canadian ice hockey coach and retired goaltender who was an All-American for Western Michigan.<ref name = AHCA />
What sport does Bill Wilkinson play? [SEP] Dan Wilkinson  Daniel Raymon Wilkinson (born March 13, 1973) is a former American football defensive tackle who played in the National Football League (NFL) for 13 seasons. Nicknamed "Big Daddy", he played college football at Ohio State, where he received consensus All-American honors, and was selected first overall by the Cincinnati Bengals in the 1994 NFL Draft. He was also a member of the Washington Redskins, Detroit Lions, and Miami Dolphins.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]  Oscar Roig Iglesias (born May 15, 1973) is a Catalan ski mountaineer. Roig was born in Barcelona. He started ski mountaineering in 2001. His first competition was the 2002 Certescan race. He has been a member of the Spanish national ski mountaineering team since 2007 and lives in Anyós, Andorra. He was placed seventh in the vertical race event of the 2007 European Championship.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]  Álvaro Iglesias Marcos (born 1 March 1993) is a Spanish field hockey player who plays as a midfielder or forward for Club de Campo and the Spanish national team. At the 2016 Summer Olympics, he competed for the national team in the men's tournament.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]  José Antonio Iglesias Alemán (born January 5, 1990) is a Cuban professional baseball shortstop who is a free agent. He made his debut in Major League baseball (MLB) in 2011 with the Boston Red Sox, and has also played for the Detroit Tigers, Cincinnati Reds, Baltimore Orioles, and Los Angeles Angels. Listed at 5 ft and 195 lb, he bats and throws right-handed.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]  Iglesias played for Isla de la Juventud in the Cuban National Series, and played for the Cuban national baseball team, appearing in the 2013 World Baseball Classic and 2013 World Port Tournament. In September 2013, Iglesias attempted to defect from Cuba. He hid in the mountains of Isla de la Juventud, but was caught and was detained. In November of that same year, Iglesias successfully defected from Cuba. He established his residency in Haiti, held an open tryout in Mexico in December 2013.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]  Álvaro played for the Spain U21 team from 2013 until 2014 before he made his debut for the main team in 2014 in a test match against Great Britain. He was part of the Spain squad that finished thirteenth at the 2018 World Cup. He scored two goals in three games in that tournament. At the 2019 EuroHockey Championship, he won his first medal with the national team as they finished second. On 25 May 2021, he was selected in the squad for the 2021 EuroHockey Championship.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP] List of Puerto Ricans  This is a list of notable people from Puerto Rico which includes people who were born in Puerto Rico (Borinquen) and people who are of full or partial Puerto Rican descent. The government of Puerto Rico has been issuing "Certificates of Puerto Rican Citizenship" to anyone born in Puerto Rico or to anyone born outside of Puerto Rico with at least one parent who was born in Puerto Rico since 2007. Also included in the list are some long-term continental American and other residents or immigrants of other ethnic heritages who have made Puerto Rico their home and consider themselves to be Puerto Ricans.  The list is divided into categories and, in some cases, sub-categories, which best describe the field for which the subject is most noted. Some categories such as "Actors, actresses, comedians and directors" are relative since a subject who is a comedian may also be an actor or director. In some cases a subject may be notable in more than one field, such as Luis A. Ferré, who is notable both as a former governor and as an industrialist. However, the custom is to place the subject's name under the category for which the subject is most noted.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP] List of Cubans  This is a list of notable Cubans, ordered alphabetically by first name within each category.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP] List of Jewish American entertainers  This is a list of notable Jewish American entertainers. For other Jewish Americans, see Lists of Jewish Americans.
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP]
What sport does Oscar Roig Iglesias play? [SEP] Havana Plan Piloto  The Havana Plan Piloto was a 1955–1958 urban proposal by Town Planning Associates, which included Paul Lester Wiener, Paul Schulz, the Catalan architect Josep Lluis Sert, and Seely Stevenson of Value & Knecht, Consulting Engineers, seeking to combine ""architecture, planning, and law"", in a project heavily influenced by the politics of Fulgencio Batista which in turn were dictated by his involvement with the American Mafia and their desire to augment United States tourism, and thru his architects and various designers, the modernist principles of the Congrès Internationaux d'Architecture Moderne (CIAM) and the Athens Charter. The Charter got its name from the location of the fourth CIAM conference in 1933, which, due to the deteriorating political situation in Russia, took place on the "in SS Patris II" bound for Athens from Marseilles. This conference is documented in a film commissioned by Sigfried Giedion and made by his friend László Moholy-Nagy The Charter had a significant impact on urban planning after World War II and, through Josep Lluis Sert and Paul Lester Wiener, on the proposed modernization of Havana and in an effort to erase all vestiges of the 16th-century city.<ref name="diseños" /><ref name="piloto" /><ref name="minnesota" />
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP]  Radoslav Rashkov (Радослав Рашков; born 18 April 1987) is a Bulgarian footballer, who currently plays as a goalkeeper for Pavlikeni.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP]  Aleksey Petrovich Rastvortsev (Алексей Петрович Растворцев; born August 8, 1978) is a Russian handball player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics (bronze winner) and in the 2008 Summer Olympics. He played for the Russian National Handball Team 251 match and scored over 900 goals. In his career he played for HC Neva (St. Peterburg), HC Energija (Voronez), HC Chekhovskie Medvedi (Chekhov, Moskovskaja oblast), RK Vardar (Skopje) and RK Vojvodina (Novi Sad). He finished his active sports career in 2016 and since then he is deputy sport director in RK Vardar; they won the EHF Champions League in 2017.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] Genko Rashkov (1920–1996), Bulgarian Olympic equestrian ; Radoslav Rashkov (born 1987), Bulgarian association football player ; Valentina Rashkova, Bulgarian artistic gymnast Rashkov (Рашков) is a Bulgarian male surname, its feminine counterpart is Rashkova. It may refer to:
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP]  the national team, remarking on his optimism and energy and the good spirits that surrounded the Olympiad camp. Less complimentary was chess commentator Vladimir Dvorkovich, who described Rashkovsky as inferior in every way to his American counterpart Yasser Seirawan, when Russia lost the Match of the New Century—the 2002 edition of the Russia (USSR) vs Rest of the World challenge matches. In 2008, Rashkovsky was appointed Director of the Urals Chess Academy. Having started his playing career in a similar facility, his aim is to recreate the same opportunities for talented children of the present day. The Academy is not solely for chess, but will cover a range of intellectual sports development needs.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP]  Radoslav Metodiev Zdravkov (Радослав Meтoдиeв Здравков; born 30 July 1956) is a Bulgarian retired footballer who played as an attacking midfielder, and currently sports director of CSKA 1948 Sofia.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] Radoslav Rashkov  Radoslav Rashkov (; born 18 April 1987) is a Bulgarian footballer, who currently plays as a goalkeeper for Pavlikeni.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] List of Bulgarian football transfers winter 2012–13  This is a list of Bulgarian football transfers for the 2012–13 winter transfer window. Only transfers involving a team from the A PFG and B PFG are listed. The window is closed at midnight on 28 February 2013. Players without a club may join one at any time, either during or in between transfer windows.
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] 2015–16_EHF_Champions_League game against FC Porto (handball)), back to Serbia. When one of the passengers, a Jordanian citizen with an American passport, tried to break into the plane's cockpit, he was tackled by Rastvortsev and Milan Mirković, club's assistant coach. The passenger stayed calm for the rest of the flight, but he was observed by the player and the coach. Aleksey Rastvortsev Aleksey Petrovich Rastvortsev (; born August 8, 1978) is a Russian handball player who competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics (bronze winner) and in the 2008 Summer Olympics. He played for the Russian National Handball Team 251 match and
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] Nukhim Rashkovsky Nukhim (Naum) Nikolayevich Rashkovsky (born 18 April 1946, Sverdlovsk) is a chess Grandmaster and coach from Russia. His first meaningful chess moves were played at the Sverdlovsk Palace of Pioneers, one of many training schools for talented young players in Soviet Russia. He was a regular patron of the long-running Soviet Chess Championship, from his first appearance in 1972 until the event's final edition in 1991. In total, he participated eight times, his best performance occurring in 1986, when he finished in eighth place. Competing at the former Russian Championship (known as the Championship of the RSFSR), he
What sport does Radoslav Rashkov play? [SEP] Radoslav Nesterović Radoslav "Rašo" Nesterović (, ; born May 30, 1976), usually referred to in English as Radoslav "Rasho" Nesterovic, is a retired Slovenian professional basketball player. He holds citizenship in both Slovenia and Greece. In the NBA he played for the Minnesota Timberwolves, San Antonio Spurs, Indiana Pacers, and Toronto Raptors. Nesterović retired in 2011. Nesterović was born in Ljubljana, SR Slovenia, SFR Yugoslavia to father Čedo, a Bosnian Serb employee of the Slovenian Railways, and a mother Branka, a midwife in the Ljubljana University Medical Centre. He started playing basketball with the KD Slovan youth team. Later, he
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] }
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] }
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] if necessary
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP]  The 1993-94 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup was the 36th edition of the competition. It was won by the Ginnastica Comense for the first time against Popular Basquet Godella, who couldn't defend the title for a second time, in a replay of the past season's final match. Format changes were introduced for this edition.
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] }
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] Basketball in Greece  Basketball in Greece erupted with the win of the Greece men's national basketball team at the 1987 EuroBasket in Athens, which caused a general basketball euphoria in the country. Since then, the Greece men's national teams have achieved consistent international success, leading Greece to join Russia, Serbia, Croatia, Italy, Spain, France, and Lithuania in the circle of European basketball powers. In addition to the Greece national team's triumph in 1987, they won the gold medal at the 2005 EuroBasket, silver medals at the 1989 EuroBasket, and the 2006 FIBA World Cup, and the bronze medal at the 2009 EuroBasket.  At the professional club level, the Greece men's basketball clubs have, in European-wide Cup competitions, organized under both FIBA and EuroLeague Basketball, won 18 European championships, 9 of which have been won in the 1st-tier level EuroLeague competition, as well as three world club championships at the FIBA Club World Cup, bringing the total amount of international titles won by Greek men's clubs to 21. At the women's professional club level, Athinaikos won the title of the 2nd-tier EuroCup, in 2010.
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP] S.L. Benfica (basketball)  Sport Lisboa e Benfica (), commonly known as Benfica, is a professional basketball team based in Lisbon, Portugal, who play in the Liga Portuguesa de Basquetebol (LPB), where they are the current champions. Created in 1927, it is the senior representative side of the basketball section of multi-sports club S.L. Benfica.  In June 2007, the club decided to leave the professional top league, then known as LCB, and join the Proliga, a league organized by the Portuguese Basketball Federation. From 2008 onwards, they returned to the LPB after the federation took over the realms of the competition.  Founded in 1927, Benfica is the most successful Portuguese club, having the record for most championships, cups, league cups, super cups, and other national competitions, with a total of 82 domestic titles. It is also the Portuguese team that advanced the furthest in the European top club championship, now known as EuroLeague.  Some of their most memorable moments were European victories against clubs that have won the Euroleague, such as Virtus Bologna, Real Madrid, Cantù, Cibona, Joventut Badalona, Panathinaikos, Partizan, CSKA Moscow or Varese. Despite basketball not being nearly as popular as football among the Portuguese population, Benfica has a major rivalry with FC Porto in this sport, rivalry which was interrupted from 2012 to 2015.  Along with its several junior teams that play in their respective top division championships, Benfica also has a developmental basketball team, Benfica B, that plays in the Proliga, the second highest tier in Portugal after the LPB, in which the main team competes.
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP]
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP]
What sport does 1994–95 FIBA Women's European Champions Cup play? [SEP]
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP]  Willi Koslowski (born 17 February 1937) is a former German football player. Striker Koslowski scored his only goal in his games for West Germany on the day of his debut, the third one of the West Germans in a 3–0 win over Uruguay in April 1962. He added two further appearances, one at the 1962 FIFA World Cup against Switzerland (2–1) at Estadio Nacional de Chile on 3 June, the same year.
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP]  Wilhelm Kirschner, nicknamed Kiri, (9 December 1911 – 26 March 1994) was a Romanian male handball player. He was a member of the Romania men's national handball team. He was a part of the team at the 1936 Summer Olympics, playing 3 matches and scoring two goals. On club level he played for Hermannstädter Turnverein in Romania.
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP]  player with 427 games ; Andréa Zimmermann (born 1976) a Swiss ski mountaineer and mountain runner ; Yannick Pelletier (born 1976) a Swiss chess player who lives in Paris ; Marcel Fischer (born 1978) a Swiss fencer, gold medallist in the Men's Épée Individual at the 2004 Summer Olympics ; Ares (Marco Jaggi) (born 1980) a Swiss professional wrestler and wrestling trainer ; Raphael Nuzzolo (born 1983) a Swiss professional footballer, played over 475 games ; Denis Simonet (born 1985) a Swiss Pirate Party politician ; Martina Kocher (born 1985) a Swiss luger, competed in the 2006 and 2010 Winter Olympics ; Pietro Di Nardo (born 1990) a Swiss professional footballer, played over 250 games ; Nicola Todeschini (born 1997) a Swiss figure skater
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP]  In her childhood, Wälti played ice hockey as well as football. In 2002, at the age of 8, she started playing for FC Langnau, a boys football team coached by her father. In 2007 she was admitted to the Huttwill Training Centre and, half a year later, she joined Team Bern West. In 2009 she moved to BSC Young Boys, where she played for a year in the U16 boys' team.
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP]  Willi Worpitzky (25 August 1886 – 10 October 1953) was a German footballer and manager. He competed in the 1912 Summer Olympics. Worpitzky was a member of the German Olympic squad and played one match in the main tournament.
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP] Willi Landgraf Willi Landgraf (born 29 August 1968 in Mülheim an der Ruhr) is a retired German footballer, last playing for the amateurs of Schalke 04. He is the record holder of games played in the 2. Bundesliga with 508 games. He notably "never" played a single game in the Bundesliga. Most of Landgraf's games were for Rot-Weiß Essen and for Alemannia Aachen. Landgraf was well known for his honest, blue-collar approach to soccer and was regarded as a great fan favourite even of fans who did not follow his teams. At age 37, he seemed to finally achieve his
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP] Germany side that won the gold medal at the 2012 Olympics. Nicolas Jacobi Nicolas Jacobi (born 13 April 1987) is a German professional field hockey player who currently plays as a goalkeeper for Delhi Waveriders in the Hockey India League and the Germany national field hockey team. On 16 December 2012, Jacobi was bought by the Delhi Waveriders for the new franchise base league, Hockey India League, for $50,000. He then made his debut for the side on 14 January 2013 in the leagues very first match against the Punjab Warriors. He started the match and played the full game
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP] sporting goods representative and a coach, both in athletics and football. He coached Olympic pole vaulter Claus Schiprowski, Reinhard Kuretzky and Günther Nickel, and later managed German Bundesliga side SC Fortuna Köln in football. Holdorf is the father of Dirk Holdorf, a former professional football player. Willi Holdorf Willi Holdorf (born 17 February 1940) is a retired West German athlete. In 1964 he won the first Olympic medal for Germany in decathlon and was named German Sportspersonality of the Year. In 1997, he became a member of the German Olympic Committee, and in 2011 inducted into the German Sports Hall
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP] with whom she had teamed since 2014. They made it to the round of 16, and lost to the Swiss team of Heidrich and Zumkehr in 3 sets (21–19, 13–21, 10–15) Marleen van Iersel Marleen van Iersel (born 7 January 1988) is a Dutch professional beach volleyball player born in Breda. Iersel began her career playing indoor volleyball before switching to the beach volleyball in 2001. In 2003, she was selected by the Sourcy Volleybalschool. With her playing partner Jennifer Waninge she qualified for the Pattaya Under-18 World Championships in Thailand finishing in fifth place. In 2004 Iersel again qualified
What sport does Willi Kirsei play? [SEP] Willi Lippens Willi Lippens (born 10 November 1945) is a former German-Dutch football player. He is nicknamed "Ente" (German for "duck") due to his waddling. Born near the German-Dutch border to a Dutch father and a German mother, Lippens spent most of his career playing for German clubs. He played for Rot-Weiss Essen from 1965–76 and in 1980–81. Between 1976 and 1979 he played for Borussia Dortmund before leaving to play one season for the Dallas Tornado in the NASL (North American Soccer League). Lippens played in 242 Bundesliga matches, scoring 92 goals, making him the player who appeared most
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP]  Robert William Windsor (born 31 January 1948 in Newport, Monmouthshire), known as Bobby and nicknamed "The Duke", is a former rugby union player who gained 28 rugby union caps for Wales as a hooker between 1973 and 1979. Windsor published his autobiography in October 2010 entitled 'The Iron Duke'.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP]  A steelworker by trade, Windsor actually began his rugby union career as a back, playing at fullback and fly-half, but became famous as a hooker. He played for Brynglas and Cross Keys before joining Pontypool where with Graham Price and Charlie Faulkner he became part of the legendary Pontypool Front Row, also known as the Viet Gwent (a play on Viet Cong) and immortalised in song by Max Boyce.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP]  Windsor was selected for two British Lions tours. He played in all the tests on the tour of South Africa in 1974, and helped the Lions forwards dominate the Springboks. On the later tour of New Zealand in 1977 he played only in the first test and did not recapture his form in South Africa.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP]  Windsor was born in Stoke-on-Trent and joined Stoke City during World War II. He made two appearances for Stoke in 1943–44 and in 1944–45. He made three appearances in 1945–46 and with the war coming to an end Windsor had the opportunity to being to push for a first team place. But he was nowhere near good enough and played for the reserves for two seasons before joining Lincoln City. He played two seasons for Lincoln playing 11 times scoring once against Sheffield Wednesday. He ended his career with non-league Wellington Town.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP]  Robert "Bobby" Windsor (31 January 1926 – 2000) was an English footballer who played in the Football League for Lincoln City.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP] Bobby Windsor  Robert William Windsor (born 31 January 1948 in Newport, Monmouthshire), known as Bobby and nicknamed "The Duke", is a former rugby union player who gained 28 rugby union caps for Wales as a hooker between 1973 and 1979. Windsor published his autobiography in October 2010 entitled 'The Iron Duke'.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP] Robert Windsor (American football)  Robert Browning Windsor (born January 15, 1997) is an American football defensive tackle for the Vegas Vipers of the XFL. He played college football at Penn State and professionally for the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League (NFL).
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP] Bobby Valentine  Robert John Valentine (born May 13, 1950), nicknamed "Bobby V", is an American former professional baseball player and manager. He also served as the athletic director at Sacred Heart University. Valentine played for the Los Angeles Dodgers (1969, 1971–72), California Angels (1973–1975), San Diego Padres (1975-1977), New York Mets (1977–78), and Seattle Mariners (1979) in MLB. He managed the Texas Rangers (1985–1992), the New York Mets (1996–2002), and the Boston Red Sox (2012) of MLB, as well as the Chiba Lotte Marines of Nippon Professional Baseball (1995, 2004–2009).  Valentine has been an analyst for ESPN's "Sunday Night Baseball". In February 2013, CBSSports.com hired Valentine to represent its Fantasy Sports business, including running a viral marketing campaign in which he made fun of the many times he was fired in his career and gave fans a chance to "Hire or Fire Bobby V" one more time.   On November 2, 2021, Valentine lost the election to become mayor of his hometown of Stamford, Connecticut, to Caroline Simmons, the first female elected mayor in Stamford.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP] Gerald Davies  Thomas Gerald Reames Davies CBE DL (born 7 February 1945 in Llansaint) is a Welsh former rugby union wing who played international rugby for Wales between 1966 and 1978. He is one of a small group of Welsh players to have won three Grand Slams including Gareth Edwards, JPR Williams, Ryan Jones, Adam Jones, Gethin Jenkins and Alun Wyn Jones.
What sport does Bobby Windsor play? [SEP] Pontypool RFC  Pontypool Rugby Football Club is a Welsh rugby union team based in the town of Pontypool, which plays in the WRU Championship (known as the SWALEC Championship for sponsorship purposes). Due to the regionalisation of Welsh rugby in 2003, Pontypool RFC is now a feeder club to the Dragons regional team. Pontypool play their home matches at Pontypool Park. Their traditional home kit is a red, white and black-hooped shirt and socks with white shorts, although they did gradually shift to wearing black shorts post-2003.  Pontypool has a long history within Welsh rugby and is one of the country's most notable clubs, being present at the formation of the Welsh Rugby Union in 1881, but disbanding before the turn of the 19th century. The club reformed in 1901 and produced many notable Wales and British Lions international players, including the Jones brothers in the early 20th century and the famed 'Pontypool Front Row' of Charlie Faulkner, Graham Price and Bobby Windsor in the 1970s. The club's 'Golden Era' is generally accepted as the 1970s and 1980s when, under the coaching of Ray Prosser, the first team won the Welsh Club Championship in 1973 and 1975.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]  Darryl Gibson (born July 28, 1976 in Toronto, Ontario) is a Canadian lacrosse player for the Buffalo Bandits in the National Lacrosse League.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]  Harry Jay Gibson (born 25 March 1993) is an English field hockey player, who plays as a goalkeeper for Surbiton and the England and Great Britain national teams. He was educated at Millfield.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]  Gibson plays club hockey in the Men's England Hockey League Premier Division for Surbiton. He previously played for Loughborough Students and Hampstead & Westminster.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]  Adam Matthew Gibson (born 30 October 1986) is an Australian professional basketball player for the Knox Raiders of the NBL1 South. He made his National Basketball League (NBL) debut in 2005, and has played for five NBL franchises. He is a two-time NBL champion, having won his first in 2007, with the Brisbane Bullets and his second in 2009, with the South Dragons. He is also a five-time All-NBL Team member and was crowned the NBL Best Defensive Player in 2009. Gibson is a long-time member of the Australian Boomers, having played at the 2012 London Olympics and at the 2010, and 2014 FIBA World Cups.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]  Michael James Gibson (born Derby, 15 July 1939) is an English former professional footballer. He played for Shrewsbury Town, Bristol City and Gillingham between 1960 and 1974 making over 480 Football League appearances in the years since the Second World War.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP] Michael Gibson  Michael Gibson may refer to:
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP] Mike Gibson (rugby union)  Cameron Michael Henderson Gibson (born 3 December 1942) is a former rugby union player who represented Ireland and the British and Irish Lions at international level.  Gibson is regarded as one of the greatest rugby union players; upon his induction into the IRB Hall of Fame in May 2011, former teammate and fellow Hall of Fame inductee Syd Millar said about Gibson that:  "... [he] was one of the finest players of his generation, one of the finest players ever to represent Ireland and the British & Irish Lions and a man who epitomised the very ethos of the Game and its values."<ref name=halloffame/>
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP]
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP] Mike Gibson (American football)  Michael Thomas Gibson (born November 18, 1985) is a former American football guard. He was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles in the sixth round of the 2008 NFL Draft. He played college football at California.  Gibson also played for the Seattle Seahawks and Arizona Cardinals.
What sport does Michael Gibson play? [SEP] Gibsons Games  Gibsons Games (Gibsons) is an independent, family-owned British board game and jigsaw puzzle manufacturer, and one of the oldest of its kind in the United Kingdom. Gibsons is the trading name of H. P. Gibsons & Sons Ltd. The company is now run by the 4th generation of the Gibsons family. The company head office is located in Sutton, England.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP]  David Davidson was a Scottish footballer, who played for Queen's Park and the Scotland national football squad in the 1870s and 1880s.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP]  Davidson grew up in Dunblane and attended Dunblane High School from 1988 to 1994, for which he captained the football team. His performances for the team led to his being scouted. He also played tennis at the school, and was part of the team that won the Scottish Schools Championship, where he was coached under Judy Murray. He also represented Scotland in golf.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP]  Born in Edinburgh, Davidson grew up in the small Borders town of Innerleithen where he played for the local sports club Leithen Vale, in the same team as Ross Campbell, who would go on to represent Hibernian and Dunfermline Athletic, and Steven Notman, who was to play for Hibernian and Berwick Rangers. The team was the most successful in the sports club's history, winning countless trophies both at home and abroad, and a number of the boys, including Davidson, went on to play at a higher level.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP]  David Davidson (born 20 August 1934) is a Scottish footballer, who played as a wing half in the Football League for Manchester City and Workington.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP]  Ronald Davidson (born July 16, 1958) is a Canadian former ice hockey player. He played with Team Canada at the 1980 Winter Olympics. Playing on a line with future NHLers Glenn Anderson and Jim Nill, he scored one goal and four assists in six games. Ron graduated from Queen's University law school in 1982 and then played professional hockey in Sweden, Switzerland, and France for four years before starting his law career in 1986 in Ottawa. He remained active in hockey as assistant at Howie Meeker's hockey schools and later as director of hockey programming for the Ottawa Senators.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP] Pete Davidson  Peter Michael Davidson (born November 16, 1993) is an American comedian and actor. He was a cast member of the NBC late-night sketch comedy series "Saturday Night Live" (SNL) for eight seasons, running from 2014 to 2022.   Davidson's father, Scott Matthew Davidson, was a New York firefighter who died in 2001 at the World Trade Center during the September 11 attacks. Davidson began his career in the early 2010s with minor guest roles on "Brooklyn Nine-Nine", "Friends of the People", "Guy Code", and "Wild 'n Out". He released his comedy specials "Pete Davidson: SMD" (2016) and "Pete Davidson: Alive from New York" (2020).   Davidson starred and executive produced the comedy film "Big Time Adolescence" (2019), and co-wrote and starred in the semi-autobiographical comedy-drama film "The King of Staten Island" (2020). Davidson continued acting in films such as "The Suicide Squad" (2021), "Bodies Bodies Bodies" (2022), "Meet Cute" (2022), and "Marmaduke" (2022).
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP] Jim Davidson  James Cameron Davidson (born 13 December 1953) is an English stand-up comedian, actor, singer and TV presenter. He hosted the television shows "Big Break" and "The Generation Game". He also developed two adult pantomime shows such as "Boobs in the Wood" and "Sinderella", to critical reception.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP] Anthony Davidson  Anthony Denis Davidson (born 18 April 1979) is a British former racing driver, currently working as an analyst for the Sky Sports F1 television channel, as part of the commentary team for WEC TV, as colour commentator for the F1 series of video games, and as simulator and demonstration driver for Mercedes AMG Petronas. He is best known for racing in Formula One for Minardi and Super Aguri, and has been a test or reserve driver for the British American Racing, Honda, and Brawn GP teams. Davidson was the 2014 WEC World Champion, alongside his teammate, Sébastien Buemi.
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP] Stephen Curry  Wardell Stephen Curry II ( ; born March 14, 1988) is an American professional basketball player for the Golden State Warriors of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players of all time, and as the greatest shooter in NBA history, Curry is credited with revolutionizing the sport by inspiring teams and players to take more three-point shots. An eight-time NBA All-Star and eight-time All-NBA selection, including four times on the first team, he has been named the NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) twice, has won four NBA championships, and received an NBA Finals MVP Award and an NBA All-Star Game MVP Award.  Curry is the son of former NBA player Dell Curry and the older brother of current NBA player Seth Curry. He played college basketball for the Davidson Wildcats, where he set career scoring records for Davidson and the Southern Conference, was twice named conference player of the year, and set the single-season NCAA record during his sophomore year for most three-pointers made. Curry was selected by the Warriors with the seventh overall pick in the 2009 NBA draft.  In 2014–15, Curry won his first league MVP award and led the Warriors to their first championship since 1975. The following season, he became the first player to be elected MVP by a unanimous vote and lead the league in scoring while shooting above 50–40–90. That same year, the Warriors broke the record for the most wins in an NBA season en route to reaching the 2016 NBA Finals, which they lost to the Cleveland Cavaliers in seven games. Curry helped the Warriors return to the NBA Finals in 2017, 2018, and 2019, winning back-to-back titles in 2017 and 2018, but falling to the Toronto Raptors in 2019. After missing the playoffs in 2020 and 2021, Curry won a fourth championship with the Warriors against the Boston Celtics in 2022, and was named Finals MVP.  During the 2012–13 season, Curry set the NBA record for three-pointers made in a regular season, with 272. He surpassed that record in 2015 with 286, and again in 2016 with 402. On December 14, 2021, Curry set the NBA record for career three-pointers, passing Ray Allen. For their shooting abilities, Curry and teammate Klay Thompson have earned the nickname of the Splash Brothers; in 2013–14, they set the record for combined three-pointers made in an NBA season with 484, a record they broke the following season (525), and again in the 2015–16 season (678).
What sport does David Davidson play? [SEP] David Croft (broadcaster)  David Michael Croft (born 19 June 1970) is a British television broadcaster for Sky Sports. He is the lead commentator for Sky's Formula One coverage, a role he has held since 2012. He was born and raised in Stevenage, England.
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]  Momo Blamo (born 2 January 1974) nicknamed The Wall is a Liberian footballer (goalkeeper) playing currently for Kon Sava FC. He is a former member of the Liberia national football team.
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]  Wall is an outfielder, and started playing softball when she was a nine-year-old. The first club she played for were the Cheetahs of Hervey Bay. In 2006, she had a softball scholarship with the Queensland Academy of Sport. In 2008, she competed in the Queensland Open Women's State Championships. She has played professional softball in Italy. She currently plays for the Mariners in the Redlands League. Jade Wall also coaches many teams she helped her dad coach the under 15's team for Redcliffe and she has also coached under 17'teams and a large variety of redcliffe rep teams
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]  Professional basketball player Victor Oladipo's father was born and raised in Blama.
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]  "Momo" was born in Kissimmee, Florida, to Barry Thomas and Alousa Chappell. He has 11 siblings. His brothers are Greg, Javon, Richard, Tyuan and Santae. His sisters are Sophia, Shala, Theila, Kayla and Chardae. His family friend T'Sharvan Bell joined him at Osceola High. Bobby Sippio, his cousin, played football as a wide receiver for Western Kentucky University in college, and now plays in the National Football League (NFL) for the Kansas City Chiefs. Amar'e Stoudemire has been a close family friend of his.
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]  Momo, sometimes stylised as "MOMO" (born 1974, San Francisco), is an American artist. Originally from San Francisco, he is known for his post-graffiti murals and studio painting. Momo began his experimental outdoor work in the late 90s, working with homemade tools in public spaces. Since 2009 he has been expanding his focus to include a substantial studio practice. He is currently based in New Orleans, Louisiana. Notable mural commissions include Facebook, Pepsi, the NFL, the World Trade Center, John Hancock Tower, Art Production Fund NY, European Capital of Culture, the NYC DOT, and Yohji Yamamoto's Y-3. Self organized walls in Jamaica, Sicily, and Arizona (2013, 2016, 2018), painted at the artists expense, have been important in demonstrating innovative techniques for a general audience free of the usual commercial concerns. In 2016 Maya Hayuk, MOMO, Swoon, and Faile inaugurated the new Millennium Iconoclast Museum of Art in Brussels, with installations on five floors. Solo shows the following year were held at Delimbo Gallery in Sevilla and Alice Gallery in Belgium, as well as an experimental group show with Mark Flood, Revok, and Paul Kremer at Library Street Collective in Detroit. MOMO is a long-time collaborator with fellow artist Eltono.
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP]
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP] in a 3–0 win against Boston Breakers to place the Red Stars at the top of the NWSL league. Walls was waived by the Red Stars ahead of the 2017 season. Cara Walls' parents are Sarah Gingrass and Andre Walls. She has two sisters, Vinessa and Alayah, and a brother, Tony. Cara Walls Cara Walls (born June 16, 1993) is an American professional soccer player, from Wauwatosa, Wisconsin, who previously played forward for the Chicago Red Stars. Cara Walls attended Wauwatosa East High School. She led FC Milwaukee under-18 team to win the national championships, and as the top scorer
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP] Championship XV team that defeated Canada 28-23 as part of their 2014 autumn tests, which was held at the Sixways Stadium in Worcester. Marco Mama Marco Mama (born 27 March 1991) is a Zimbabwe rugby union player who currently plays for Worcester Warriors in the Aviva Premiership. Mama was initially registered with Bristol as part of the Elite Player Development Group before joining their senior academy in 2009. Originally, he joined local rivals Worcester Warriors on a season-loan in the 2015-16 season. But, he signed a permanent deal with Worcester soon after, where he will officially join the club from
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP] his penalty kick had been saved by Gustavo Munúa with 18 minutes to go. In late June 2010, after the club's relegation, Momo signed with neighbouring Real Betis, which in turn had failed to promote. He appeared in 18 games during the season – 13 starts, 980 minutes of action – as this time the goal was achieved, as champions. Momo (Spanish footballer) Jerónimo Figueroa Cabrera (born 15 July 1982), known as Momo, is a Spanish professional footballer who plays for UD Las Palmas as a winger. Born in Las Palmas, Canary Islands, Momo was signed from hometown's UD Las
What sport does Momo Wall Blamo play? [SEP] pass breakups. It was a disappointing season in 2012, as "Momo" started in the first three games for the Rams before hurting his shoulder and ending his season. However, he got drafted by the Eagles, and participated in several Rookie Camps. Thomas signed with the Atlanta Falcons as an undrafted free agent on April 29, 2013. He was waived on May 9, 2013. Momo Thomas Gerard "Momo" Santwan Thomas (born April 14, 1990) is an American football cornerback who is currently a free agent. After playing college football for Colorado State University, he was signed by the Falcons as an
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]  Chiculiță started fencing at age ten at CS Progresul Bucharest. In 1981, he won a team bronze medal at the 1981 Summer Universiade held in his home town. The same year, he transferred to CSA Steaua. At the 1984 Summer Olympics, he competed only in the team event. Romania was defeated by France in the final and met West Germany in the match for the third place. Chiculiță entered the last leg with 7 all and defeated Freddy Scholz 5–1 to give Romania the bronze medal. Chiculiță was also part of the Romania team which competed in the 1992 Summer Olympics. They were again defeated in the semi-final, and were stopped by France in the
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]  Alexandru Chiculiță (born 3 February 1961) is a retired Romanian sabre fencer. He competed at the 1984 and 1992 Olympics and won a team bronze medal in 1984. After retiring from competitions he worked as a fencing coach, and currently trains the sabre team of CS Dinamo București.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]  for the third place. Chiculiță also placed fourth with Romania in the 1993 World Fencing Championships, after a defeat against Germany in the match for the third place. In 1996 Chiculiță retired as an athlete and became a coach at BNR Bucharest, where he trained future Olympic champion Mihai Covaliu. When BNR closed in 2002, he transferred with his star student to the newly reopened fencing section of CS Dinamo București, of which he is still a member as of 2014. He also coached the men's national sabre team, before leaving this responsibility on Covaliu and taking charge of the women's national sabre team. Under his coaching, Bianca Pascu qualified for the 2012 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]  Alexandru Bucur started playing rugby in 2009 at 15 years and a half with Romanian youth club Clubul Sportiv Școlar Bârlad and from 2012 he was selected to join another youth club, Clubul Sportiv Școlar 2 Siromex Baia Mare. After one year with Siromex Baia Mare, Alexandru signed on 2nd of July 2013 a contract with SuperLiga side CSM Baia Mare.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]  Alexandru Andrei Ghiban (born 12 October 1986 in Mizil) is a Romanian water polo player. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the Romania men's national water polo team in the men's event. He is 6 ft 5 inches tall.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP]
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP] Mihai Covaliu  Mihai Claudiu Covaliu (born 5 November 1977 in Brașov) is a Romanian retired sabre fencer, Olympic champion in 2000 and world champion in 2005, and coach of the Romanian men's sabre team. He is also ex-president of the Romanian Fencing Federation and, from 2016, president of the Romanian Olympic and Sports Committee.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP] Fencing at the 1992 Summer Olympics – Men's sabre  The men's sabre was one of eight fencing events on the fencing at the 1992 Summer Olympics programme. It was the twenty-second appearance of the event. The competition was held on 2 August 1992. 44 fencers from 19 nations competed. Nations had been limited to three fencers each since 1928. The event was won by Bence Szabó of Hungary, the nation's first victory in the men's sabre since 1964 (the last of its nine-Games winning streak) and 12th overall. Marco Marin took silver while Jean-François Lamour finished with the bronze. Lamour, who had won gold in 1984 and 1988, was unable to win a third title but still became only the second man with three medals in the event (after Aladár Gerevich earned one of each color in 1936, 1948, and 1952). Marin had also finished second in 1984; he was the 12th man with multiple medals in the sabre.
What sport does Alexandru Chiculiță play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in fencing (men)  This is the complete list of men's Olympic medalists in fencing.
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP]  Irina Crasnoscioc, married Michailova (born August 13, 1981) is a Moldovan-Russian female professional basketball player.
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP]  Gashennikova represented Russia with the Russian national team at the Winter Olympic Games in 2002, 2006 and 2010. In the women's ice hockey tournament at the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics, she played every minute in net for Team Russia, winning three games and posting a 93.26% save percentage, the fourth-best save percentage of the tournament. In the 2006 tournament, she again played in every game, claiming two victories as Russia finished 6th. At the 2010 tournament, she played four of Russia's five games, winning two, and posted 2.40 goals against average. Gashennikova also appeared for Russia at seven IIHF Women's World Championships. Her first appearance came in 1997 IIHF Women's World Championship, where twenty-two goals were scored on her in five games. The most notable of these performances came in 2001 IIHF Women's World Championship, where she won three games to lead Russia to a bronze medal, the country's first in women's play.
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP]  Irina Kemmsies played volleyball in her home away from home at SC Grün-Weiß Paderborn. In 2011, she came to USC Münster, where she first played in the youth team in the Second Bundesliga. From 2013 to 2016, she played in the USC's Bundesliga squad. After that she changed to the Ligakonkurrenten 1. VC Wiesbaden. In 2013, Irina Kemmsies won the seventh place in the U18 European Championships with the German Youth Team and with the Junior Women's Team eighth in the U23 World Championships. Kemmsies graduated from the Pascal-Gymnasium in Münster.
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP]  Irina Igorevna Poltoratskaya (Ирина Игоревна Полторацкая, born 12 March 1979 in Antratsyt, Luhansk Oblast, Ukrainian SSR) is a Russian team handball player, playing on the Russian women's national handball team. She won gold medal with the Russian winning team in the 2005 World Women's Handball Championship in Saint Petersburg, Russia, and again in the 2007 World Women's Handball Championship in France. Irina's career in Russia was stopped by a knee injury. Anja Andersen, the coach of Slagelse Dream Team, Denmark brought Irina to Slagelse DT in 2004, and a few months later she underwent surgery and got a new meniscus. The operation
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP]  She has played for the Russia women's national volleyball team at junior and senior level and was part of the teams at the 2014 Montreux Volley Masters, the FIVB Volleyball World Grand Prix (in 2014, 2015, 2016), the 2015 Women's European Volleyball Championship, the 2014 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship in Italy, the 2015 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Cup in Japan, and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. At club level, she played for Leningradka and Zarechie Odintsovo before moving to Dinamo Moscow in 2015.
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP] de Janeiro. At club level, she played for Leningradka and Zarechie Odintsovo before moving to Dinamo Moscow in 2015. She is the daughter of former professional basketball player Andrei Fetisov who was playing for a club in Valladolid when she was born. Irina Fetisova (volleyball) Irina Andreyevna Fetisova (, born 7 September 1994) is a Russian female volleyball player. She plays for the Russia women's national volleyball team and Dinamo Moscow at club level. She has played for the Russia women's national volleyball team at junior and senior level and was part of the teams at the 2014 Montreux Volley
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP] in the 23rd place after defeating 27–26 Australia. At the end of the year, the National Federation selected Pop among the year's best players. Irina Pop Irina Alexandra Pop (born 8 October 1988) is a Romanian born Dominican team handball player. She plays for the club Associació Lleidatana d'Handbol (Spain) and on the Dominican Republic national team. She competed at the 2013 World Women's Handball Championship in Serbia, where the Dominican Republic placed 23rd. Pop is tall , born on 8 October 1988 in Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Pop signed with Feve Gijón to play the 2011/12 Spanish League. Pop participated in
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP] 2011 and 2012; in the second year, winning a bronze medal. She also took part in 2013 in U19 World Championships and once in U20 European Championship. On August 9, 2016, she became the president of the Crvena zvezda women's team. In September 2017, she resigned. Nataša's father is Vukašin Kovačević a former handball player, and her mother is a Natalija Bacanović, a former basketball player who won the Euroleague in 1979 with Crvena zvezda. Nataša Kovačević Nataša Kovačević (Serbian Cyrillic: Наташа Ковачевић; born 20 May 1994) is a Serbian former professional basketball player. She played for all categories of
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP] Irina Fetisova (volleyball) Irina Andreyevna Fetisova (, born 7 September 1994) is a Russian female volleyball player. She plays for the Russia women's national volleyball team and Dinamo Moscow at club level. She has played for the Russia women's national volleyball team at junior and senior level and was part of the teams at the 2014 Montreux Volley Masters, the FIVB Volleyball World Grand Prix (in 2014, 2015, 2016), the 2015 Women's European Volleyball Championship, the 2014 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship in Italy, the 2015 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Cup in Japan, and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio
What sport does Irina Crasnoscioc play? [SEP] Irina Zaryazhko Irina Vladimirovna Zaryazhko (, born 4 October 1991) is a Russian female volleyball player, who plays as a middle blocker. She is a member of the Women's National Team and has participated at the Universiade (in Kazan 2013, Gwangju 2015), the Montreux Volley Masters (in 2013, 2014, 2015), the Women's European Volleyball Championship (in 2013, 2015), the FIVB Volleyball World Grand Prix (in 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016), the 2014 FIVB Volleyball Women's World Championship in Italy, the 2015 European Games in Baku, and the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. At club level, she played for Aouroum
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP]  Louis-Philippe Ladouceur (born March 13, 1981) is an American football long snapper who is a free agent. Born and raised in Montreal, Canada, he played college football for the California Golden Bears. He signed as an undrafted free agent with the National Football League's (NFL) New Orleans Saints in 2005 before joining the Dallas Cowboys that same year, playing for them for the next 16 seasons. Ladouceur holds several longevity records for both the Cowboys and the NFL, including most consecutive games played in Cowboys history, most seasons played in Cowboys history, most consecutive games played by a longsnapper in NFL history, and most games played by a Canadian-born player. Never having a botched snap his entire career, he is widely regarded as one of the greatest longsnappers of all time.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP]  Louis Khoury (born 8 October 2000), is an Australian professional soccer player who plays as a midfielder for Mt Druitt Town Rangers.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP]  Louis Dufour Sr. (1873 &ndash; 12 April 1944) was a Swiss ice hockey player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1920 Summer Olympics, along with his son Louis Dufour Jr. Dufour was also a co-founder of the Swiss Ice Hockey Association.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP]  After playing ice hockey for most of his early life, Bourassa first began playing football at Cégep de Trois-Rivières where he also learned to long snap. He then played U Sports football for the Montreal Carabins from 2014 to 2016. In his first year, he won a Vanier Cup championship after playing in the Carabins' 50th Vanier Cup game victory over the McMaster Marauders in 2014.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP]  Pete Perreault (March 1, 1939 – December 8, 2001 ) was an American football guard who played nine seasons of professional football. He played for the American Football League's New York Jets from 1963 through 1967, for the AFL's Cincinnati Bengals in 1968, then returned to the Jets in 1969. He also played for the National Football League's Jets in 1970 and the Minnesota Vikings in 1971. Peter W. Perrault was born in Shrewsbury, Massachusetts. He attended Shrewsbury High School, Cheshire Academy and Boston University. He was inducted into the Shrewsbury High School Athletic Hall of Fame in 1991, and is remembered in the Peter Perreault Student/Athlete Of The Year Scholarship Award, presented each year since 2003.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP] France at the 1900 Summer Olympics  France was the host of the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris. France was one of many nations that had competed in the 1896 Summer Olympics in Greece and had returned to compete at the 1900 Games.  Gold medals were not given out and silver medals were given to the winners while bronze medals were given to second place.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP] Fencing at the 1900 Summer Olympics  At the 1900 Summer Olympics, seven fencing events were contested. 260 fencers from 19 nations competed. The events took place at the Tuileries Garden.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP] List of 1900 Summer Olympics medal winners  The 1900 Summer Olympics, officially the Games of the II Olympiad, were an international multi-sport event which was held in 1900 in Paris, France. Gold medals were not given at the 1900 Games. A silver medal was given for a first place and a bronze medal was given for second. The International Olympic Committee has retroactively assigned gold, silver, and bronze medals to competitors who earned 1st, 2nd, and 3rd-place finishes respectively in order to bring early Olympics in line with current awards.
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP] March 25
What sport does Louis Perrée play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in fencing (men)  This is the complete list of men's Olympic medalists in fencing.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]  The 2012–13 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team represented Elon University during the 2012–13 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Phoenix, led by fourth year head coach Matt Matheny, played their home games at Alumni Gym and were members of the North Division of the Southern Conference. They finished the season 21–12, 13–5 in SoCon play to win the North Division championship. They advanced to the semifinals of the SoCon Tournament where they lost to the College of Charleston. They were invited to the 2013 CIT, their first ever Division I postseason tournament appearance, where they lost in the first round to Canisius.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]  !colspan=9| Regular Season !colspan=9| Regular Season !colspan=9| 2013 Southern Conference Men's Basketball Tournament !colspan=9| 2013 CIT
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]  The 2018–19 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team represented Elon University during the 2018–19 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Phoenix, led by tenth-year head coach Matt Matheny, played as fifth-year members of the Colonial Athletic Association and played their home games at the brand new Schar Center.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]  The Phoenix finished the 2019–20 season 13–21, 7–11 in CAA play to finish in seventh place. They played in the 2020 CAA Men's Basketball Tournament, where they defeated 10seed James Madison in the first round, upset 2seed William & Mary in the quarterfinals, and lost to 6seed Northeastern in the semifinals.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]  The 2020–21 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team represented Elon University during the 2020–21 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Phoenix, led by second-year head coach Mike Schrage, play as seventh-year members of the Colonial Athletic Association and play their home games at the Schar Center.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP]
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP] 2018–19 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team  The 2018–19 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team represented Elon University during the 2018–19 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Phoenix, led by tenth-year head coach Matt Matheny, played as fifth-year members of the Colonial Athletic Association and played their home games at the brand new Schar Center.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP] 2012–13 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team  The 2012–13 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team represented Elon University during the 2012–13 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Phoenix, led by fourth year head coach Matt Matheny, played their home games at Alumni Gym and were members of the North Division of the Southern Conference. They finished the season 21–12, 13–5 in SoCon play to win the North Division championship. They advanced to the semifinals of the SoCon tournament where they lost to the College of Charleston. They were invited to the 2013 CIT, their first ever Division I postseason tournament appearance, where they lost in the first round to Canisius.
What sport does 2011–12 Elon Phoenix men's basketball team play? [SEP] 2011–12 The Citadel Bulldogs basketball team  The 2011–12 The Citadel Bulldogs basketball team represented The Citadel, The Military College of South Carolina in the 2011-12 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Bulldogs were led by second year head coach Chuck Driesell and played their home games at McAlister Field House. They are a member of the South Division of the Southern Conference. They finished the season 6–24, 3–15 in SoCon play to finish in last place in the South Division. They lost in the first round of the SoCon Basketball tournament to Western Carolina.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]  Born in Mexico City, García began his career in the youth ranks of local side Toluca. He played in the Toulon Tournament in 1978, and after returning had spells in the Segunda División with Azucareros de Córdoba and Veracruz. He made his Primera División debut with Toluca in 1982, and he played as a right-back for the club until 1987. García finished his career with Correcaminos, suffering a hip injury which forced him to retire in 1988.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]  played for the Winston-Salem Dash of the Class-A Advanced Carolina League in 2010, in which he was recognized as having the best season among all White Sox minor league second baseman, despite missing time due to a torn ankle ligament. In 2011, he played for the Birmingham Barons of the Class-AA Southern League and the Charlotte Knights of the Class-AAA International League. Garcia played for the United States national baseball team in the 2011 Baseball World Cup and the 2011 Pan American Games, winning the silver medal. He elected free agency from the Chicago White Sox organization on November 6, 2015.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]  Gustavo García (born 26 October 1956) is a Colombian sports shooter. He competed in the mixed trap event at the 1984 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]  Garcia played for Canada in the 2008 Final Olympic Qualification Tournament and was their shortstop as they finished first, earning a spot in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Garcia struggled at the plate in the field and at the plate in the qualifiers, hitting .240/.321/.240. He scored the winning run in their 10-inning victory over the German national team, reaching via error and coming home on a bases-loaded walk by Emerson Frostad. Garcia was a late addition to Canada for the 2008 Olympics, replacing Pete Orr after Orr was called up to the majors. He hit .190/.292/.286 as Canada's starting shortstop, fielding .875. He contributed a RBI triple in a 5-4 loss to the Team USA.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP] Copa Libertadores: 2021 Palmeiras
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP] Gustavo Garcia (footballer, born 2002)  Gustavo Garcia dos Santos (born 4 January 2002) is a Brazilian footballer who plays as a right back for Palmeiras.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP] Gustavo  Gustavo is the Latinate form of a Germanic male given name with respective prevalence in Portuguese, Spanish, and Italian. It has been a common name for Swedish monarchs since the reign of Gustav Vasa.  It is derived from Gustav /ˈɡʊstɑːv/, also spelled Gustaf, of Old Swedish origin, meaning “staff of the Gods/Goths” or “great royal staff” or "staff of the Geats", derived from the Old Norse elements Gautr ("Geat") and stafr ("staff"). Other Swedish variants/derivatives: Gösta, Göstav, Gustafsson, Gustavsson.   Such a name is also etymologically indicative of a Slavonic origin (through Swedish) from "Gostislav", a compound word from Old Slavic "Gost'" ("guest") and "slava" ("glory"). Other Slavonic variants/derivatives: Goslav, Gustaw, Gusti, Gustik, Gusty.  Such a name in the United States also bears diminutive forms in English, which serve as nick names: Gus, Gussie, Gussy, Goose. To avoid confusion, note that these nick names are also commonly used for a different class of names: Augustine, Augustus, etc.
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP]
What sport does Gustavo García play? [SEP] The Motorcycle Diaries (film)  The Motorcycle Diaries () is a 2004 biopic about the journey and written memoir of the 23-year-old Ernesto Guevara, who would several years later become internationally known as the Marxist guerrilla leader and revolutionary leader Che Guevara. The film recounts the 1952 expedition, initially by motorcycle, across South America by Guevara and his friend Alberto Granado. As well as being a road movie, the film is a coming-of-age film; as the adventure, initially centered on youthful hedonism, unfolds, Guevara discovers himself transformed by his observations on the life of the impoverished indigenous peasantry. Through the characters they encounter on their continental trek, Guevara and Granado witness first hand the injustices that the destitute face and are exposed to people and social classes they would have never encountered otherwise. To their surprise, the road presents to them both a genuine and captivating picture of Latin American identity. As a result, the trip also plants the initial seed of radicalization within Guevara, who would later challenge the continent's endemic economic inequalities and political repression.  The screenplay is based primarily on Guevara's trip diary of the same name, with additional context supplied by "Traveling with Che Guevara: The Making of a Revolutionary" by Alberto Granado. Guevara is played by Gael García Bernal (who previously played Che in the 2002 miniseries "Fidel"), and Granado by the Argentine actor Rodrigo de la Serna, who incidentally is a second cousin to the real-life Guevara on his maternal side. Directed by Brazilian director Walter Salles and written by Puerto Rican playwright José Rivera, the film was an international co-production among production companies from Argentina, the United States, Germany, the United Kingdom, Chile, Peru and France. The film's executive producers were Robert Redford, Paul Webster, and Rebecca Yeldham; the producers were Edgard Tenenbaum, Michael Nozik, and Karen Tenkhoff; and the co-producers were Daniel Burman and Diego Dubcovsky.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP]  The FIL European Luge Championships 1939 took place in Reichenberg, Czechoslovakia (then under control of Nazi Germany, now Liberec, Czech Republic) for the second time under the auspices of the Fédération Internationale de Bobsleigh et de Tobogganing (FIBT - International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation in ) under their "Section de Luge", a trend that would continue until the International Luge Federation (FIL) was formed in 1957. Reichenberg hosted the first European championships in 1914. It would also mark the last time these championships would be held prior to the outbreak of World War II later that year.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP]  The FIL European Luge Championships 1938 took place in Salzburg, Austria under the auspices of the Fédération Internationale de Bobsleigh et de Tobogganing (FIBT - International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation in ) under their "Section de Luge", a trend that would continue until the International Luge Federation (FIL) was formed in 1957.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP]   The FIL European Luge Championships 1937 took place in February 1937 at Korketrekkeren in Oslo, Norway under the auspices of the Fédération Internationale de Bobsleigh et de Tobogganing (FIBT - International Bobsleigh and Tobogganing Federation in ) under their "Section de Luge", a trend that would continue until the International Luge Federation (FIL) was formed in 1957.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] not contested due to World War II Speed Skating World Championships
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP]  European Champion 1939 Switzerland
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] Bobsleigh  Bobsleigh or bobsled is a team winter sport that involves making timed runs down narrow, twisting, banked, iced tracks in a gravity-powered sleigh. International bobsleigh competitions are governed by the International Bobsleigh and Skeleton Federation, also known as FIBT from the French . National competitions are often governed by bodies such as the United States Bobsled and Skeleton Federation, Bobsleigh Canada Skeleton, and the German Bobsleigh, Luge, and Skeleton Federation.  The first bobsleds were built in the late 19th century in St. Moritz, Switzerland, by wealthy tourists from Victorian Britain who were staying at the Palace Hotel owned by Caspar Badrutt. The early sleds were adapted from boys' delivery sleds and toboggans. These eventually evolved into bobsleighs, luges and skeletons. Initially the tourists would race their hand-built contraptions down the narrow streets of St. Moritz; however, as collisions increased, growing opposition from St. Moritz residents led to bobsledding being eventually banned from public highways. In the winter of 1884, Badrutt had a purpose-built run constructed near the hamlet of Cresta. The Cresta Run remains the oldest in the world and is the home of the St. Moritz Tobogganing Club. It has hosted two Olympic Winter Games and as of 2022 was still in use.  Modern bobsleigh teams compete to complete a downhill route in the fastest times. An aggregate time from several runs is used to determine the winners. The four-man event has been featured since the first Winter Games in 1924 in Chamonix, France. The only exception was the 1960 games in Squaw Valley when the organizing committee decided not to build a track to reduce costs. The two-man event was introduced at the 1932 games and a two-woman event was first contested at the 2002 Winter Olympics. The women's monobob event was introduced in the 2022 games.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] List of multi-sport athletes  A multi-sport athlete is an athlete who competes or trains two or more different sports. Most of these athletes played two or more sports from a young age – especially in high school – before deciding to usually concentrate on just one sport professionally.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] 1931 in sports  1931 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] List of Jews in sports  This list of Jewish athletes in sports contains athletes who are Jewish and have attained outstanding achievements in sports. The topic of Jewish participation in sports is discussed extensively in academic and popular literature (See also: List of Jews in sports (non-players)). Scholars believe that sports have been a historical avenue for Jewish people to overcome obstacles toward their participation in secular society, especially before the mid-20th century in Europe and the United States.  The criteria for inclusion in this list are:  Boldface denotes a current competitor.  To be included in the list, one does not necessarily have to practice Judaism, or to hail from Israel. Some members of the list may practice other religions or no religion at all, but are of Jewish descent.
What sport does FIBT World Championships 1939 play? [SEP] Eugenio Monti olympic track  The Eugenio Monti olympic track (  ) is a bobsleigh and skeleton track located in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy. It is named after Eugenio Monti (1928–2003), who won six bobsleigh medals at the Winter Olympic Games between 1956 and 1968 and ten medals at the FIBT World Championships between 1957 and 1966. It was featured in the 1981 James Bond film "For Your Eyes Only", held after the 1981 FIBT World Championships, before the track was shortened to its current configuration. In January 2008, after a last bobsleigh race tournament, the track was closed.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]  Francis "Frank" Cornan (5 May 1880 – 31 May 1971) was an English professional footballer born in Sunderland, who played as an inside left or left half. He made 165 appearances in the Football League playing for Barnsley (in three separate spells), Birmingham and Aston Villa. He died in Halifax, West Yorkshire, aged 91.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]  Harry Alfonso Rusan (April 1, 1910 – November 9, 1987) was an American basketball player for the Harlem Globetrotters and a Negro league baseball shortstop in the 1930s. A native of St. Louis, Missouri, Rusan attended Paul Quinn College. He played professional baseball for the Brooklyn Royal Giants in 1931, and his basketball career with the Harlem Globetrotters spanned from 1933 to 1942. Rusan died in Detroit, Michigan in 1987 at age 77.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]  Frank Tollan was a Scottish footballer who played in Scotland and the American Soccer League. In the fall of 1929, Tollan signed with the New Bedford Whalers of the American Soccer League. New Bedford released him after fourteen games and the New York Nationals had him play for one game. He then spent time with an amateur team in the New York area. In March 1930, Toner joined Bethlehem Steel. Bethlehem withdrew from the league during the 1930 summer break and Tollan joined the New York Giants for the second half of the 1930 season as well as the 1931 season. He was part of one of the most improbable comebacks as the Giants took the 1931 League Cup after losing the first game, 8-3, to the Whalers. Tollan scored the second Giants goal in that game. Frank Tollan followed and supported Glasgow Celtic his entire life. Although raised in Hamilton his love of the pure and passionate football that Celtic provided instantly made an impact on his and his entire family and friends life. He was noted as saying "Football without the fans is nothing".
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]  John William McCartan (born August 5, 1935) is a retired goaltender for the gold-medal-winning 1960 United States ice hockey team. He is also a member of the United States Hockey Hall of Fame, inducted in 1983. McCartan was born in Saint Paul, Minnesota. He was a college standout at the University of Minnesota from 1955–1958. McCartan also played baseball at Minnesota. McCartan was named First Team All-America after the 1957–1958 season. He played for the bronze medal winning US team in baseball at the 1959 Pan American Games. After graduating, he joined the U.S. Army. While in the army, he joined the United States Olympic hockey team. His heroics helped the U.S. team defeat Canada, the Soviet Union, and Czechoslovakia and win the gold medal at Squaw Valley. For
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]  Frank Meechan (27 October 1929 – 20 August 1976) was a Scottish footballer, who played for Petershill, Celtic and Stirling Albion. Meechan played for Celtic in three Scottish Cup Finals in the mid-1950s. After retiring as a player he became a scout for Celtic.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP] The Fast and the Furious (1954 film)  The Fast and the Furious is a 1954 American crime drama B movie from a story written by Roger Corman and screenplay by Jean Howell and Jerome Odlum. The film stars John Ireland and Dorothy Malone. Ireland also served as the film's co-director.  "The Fast and the Furious" was the first film produced for the American Releasing Corporation, who would become the American International Pictures company. It was the second feature produced by Roger Corman.<ref>FAST AND THE FURIOUS, The Monthly Film Bulletin; London Vol. 22, Iss. 252, (Jan 1, 1955): 24.</ref>
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP] William H. Macy  William Hall Macy Jr. (born March 13, 1950) is an American actor. His film career has been built on appearances in small, independent films, though he has also appeared in mainstream films. Some of his best known starring roles include those in "Fargo" (1996), "Air Force One" (1997), "Boogie Nights" (1997), "Magnolia" (1999), "Jurassic Park III" (2001), "Seabiscuit" (2003), "Thank You for Smoking" (2005), and "The Lincoln Lawyer" (2011). Macy has won two Emmy Awards and four Screen Actors Guild Awards, while his performance in "Fargo" earned a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor. From 2011 to 2021, he played Frank Gallagher, a main character in "Shameless", the Showtime adaptation of the British television series. Macy has been married to Felicity Huffman since 1997.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP] Frank Wolff (actor)  Walter Frank Hermann Wolff (May 11, 1928 – December 12, 1971) was an American actor whose film career began with roles in five 1958–61 Roger Corman productions and ended a decade later in Rome, after many appearances in European-made films, most of which were lensed in Italy.
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP]
What sport does Frank Cornan play? [SEP] Cockfighter  Cockfighter (also known as Born to Kill, Gamblin' Man and Wild Drifter) is a 1974 drama film by director Monte Hellman, starring Warren Oates, Harry Dean Stanton and featuring Laurie Bird and Ed Begley Jr. The screenplay is based on the 1962 novel of the same title by Charles Willeford.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]  Andrei Vițelaru (born 3 February 1985) is a Romanian footballer who plays as a defender for Ozana Târgu Neamț.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]  During his career, Andrei played mostly for Steaua București in Romania and for București Wolves, a Romanian professional rugby union team based in Bucharest that competed in the European Rugby Challenge Cup competition.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]  Andrei Bucurescu (born 7 December 1993) is a Romanian rugby union football player. He plays as a flanker for professional SuperLiga club Steaua București. He also plays for Romania's Sevens national team, the Oaks.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]  Andrei gathered 22 caps for Romania, from his debut in 2003 against Czech Republic to his last game in 2008 against Russia. He was a member of his national side for the 6th Rugby World Cup in 2003, where he played three matches in Pool A against Ireland, Argentina and Namibia.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]  Andrei Bușilă (born 1980) is a Romanian water polo player. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the Romania men's national water polo team in the men's event. He is 6 ft 3 inches tall.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP] LPS HD Clinceni  Club Sportiv LPS HD Clinceni, commonly known as Clinceni and formerly known as "Academica Clinceni" is a Romanian amateur football club based in Clinceni, Ilfov County, currently playing in the Liga IV - Ilfov County. In the summer of 2022 former "Academica Clinceni" went bankrupt, but the club was refounded as LPS HD (Liceul cu Program Sportiv Helmuth Duckadam) Clinceni.  Academica Clinceni was founded in Buftea in 2005, following a merger between two clubs, and enrolled directly in the third division. It promoted to the Liga II at the end of the 2007–08 season, but participated in the competition for only one year after it sold its place and returned to the third tier. After several years Buftea promoted again, but following the withdrawn of their financial support the club had to relocate three times—The first time in 2013, when it was bought by the authorities from Clinceni, also in Ilfov County, one year later when it moved to Pitești, and finally when it returned to Clinceni and settled on the current name in 2015.  In 2017, Academica started a partnership with FCSB, loaning a number of youth players from the latter's academy, and achieved a surprising promotion to the Liga I in 2019. The team represents the smallest locality to ever participate in the Romanian first league, the commune of Clinceni only having a population of roughly 5,000 people.
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP]
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP] win against Israel. FCM Târgu Mureș Pandurii Târgu Jiu Dinamo București Paul Anton Paul Viorel Anton (; born 10 May 1991) is a Romanian professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for Russian club Krylia Sovetov Samara. In 2008, Anton began his career with his hometown club Gloria Bistrița, being promoted from the juniors. In the same year, he was loaned to Delta Tulcea, where he played a season and scored 4 goals in 27 Liga II matches. However, after the loan to Delta Tulcea, Anton was sent to the Gloria Bistrița's reserves, where he played a season, after
What sport does Andrei Vițelaru play? [SEP] on 1 March 2008 in Krasnodar where he (20 years old) helped the Russian "Bears" to beat the Portuguese National Rugby Team 41–26. Since that time Andrey has played 25 games for Russia and is one of the irreplaceable players of the team. He was a member of the Russian National Squad at the Rugby World Cup in New Zealand in 2011. Andrei Ostrikov Andrei Ostrikov () (born 2 July 1987 in Moscow, Russia) is a rugby union player for the Sale Sharks in the Aviva Premiership for the Russian National Rugby Team. He plays as a lock or a
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP]  The Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale is a defunct WTA Tour affiliated women's tennis tournament played from 1971 to 1974. It was held in Fort Lauderdale, Florida in the United States and played on outdoor clay courts.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP]  The 1973 Virginia Slims Championships were the second season-ending WTA Tour Championships, the annual tennis tournament for the best female tennis players in singles on the 1973 Virginia Slims circuit which was part of the 1973 WTA Tour. It was held from October 15 to 23, 1973 at the Boca Raton Hotel & Club in Boca Raton, United States. Both the top two qualifying players and top seeds Margaret Court and Billie Jean King had to withdraw from the tournament due to injury, although Court did compete (and win) in the doubles event. Fourth ranked Evonne Goolagong also defaulted. First-seeded Chris Evert won her second consecutive singles title at the event.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP]  The First Federal of Sarasota Classic, also known as the Virginia Slims of Sarasota, was a women's tennis tournament played on outdoor green clay courts at the Palm Aire Racquet Club in Sarasota, Florida in the United States that was part of the 1974 Virginia Slims World Championship Series. It was the second edition of the tournament and was held from April 8 through April 14, 1974. First-seeded Chris Evert won the singles title and earned $10,000 first-prize money.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP]  The 1975 Virginia Slims of Sarasota was a women's tennis tournament played on indoor carpet courts at the Robarts Sports Arena in Sarasota, Florida in the United States that was part of the 1975 Virginia Slims World Championship Series. It was the third edition of the tournament and was held from January 13 through January 19, 1975. Second-seeded Billie Jean King won the singles title and earned $15,000 first-prize money.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP]  The 1973 Virginia Slims of Richmond was a women's tennis tournament played on indoor clay courts at the Westwood Racquet Club in Richmond, Virginia in the United States that was part of the 1973 Virginia Slims World Championship Series. It was the third edition of the tournament and was held from March 14 through March 18, 1973. First-seeded Margaret Court won the singles title and earned $6,000 first-prize money.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP] Billie Jean King  Billie Jean King (née Moffitt; born November 22, 1943) is an American former world No. 1 tennis player. King won 39 major titles: 12 in singles, 16 in women's doubles, and 11 in mixed doubles. King was a member of the victorious United States team in seven Federation Cups and nine Wightman Cups. For three years, she was the U.S. captain in the Federation Cup.  King is an advocate of gender equality and has long been a pioneer for equality and social justice. In 1973, at age 29, she won the "Battle of the Sexes" tennis match against the 55-year-old Bobby Riggs. King was also the founder of the Women's Tennis Association and the Women's Sports Foundation. She was instrumental in persuading cigarette brand Virginia Slims to sponsor women's tennis in the 1970s and went on to serve on the board of their parent company Philip Morris in the 2000s.  Regarded by many as one of the greatest tennis players of all time,<ref name="Who Is the Greatest Female Player Ever?"/><ref name="ITHF biography"/> King was inducted into the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1987. The Fed Cup Award of Excellence was bestowed on her in 2010. In 1972, she was the joint winner, with John Wooden, of the "Sports Illustrated" Sportsman of the Year award and was one of the "Time" Persons of the Year in 1975. She has also received the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the "Sunday Times" Sportswoman of the Year lifetime achievement award. She was inducted into the National Women's Hall of Fame in 1990, and in 2006, the USTA National Tennis Center in New York City was renamed the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center. In 2018, she won the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Lifetime Achievement Award. In 2020, the Federation Cup was renamed the Billie Jean King Cup in her honor. In 2022, she was awarded the French Legion of Honour.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP] Chris Evert career statistics  This is a list of the main career statistics of former professional tennis player Chris Evert.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP] List of tennis tournaments  List of current and past men's and women's tennis tournaments.  Criteria for inclusion:
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP] Larry King (tennis)  Larry William King (born January 30, 1945) is an American sports promoter, and the ex-husband of former World No. 1 professional tennis player Billie Jean King.
What sport does 1973 Virginia Slims of Fort Lauderdale play? [SEP] Chris Evert  Christine Marie Evert (born December 21, 1954), known as Chris Evert Lloyd from 1979 to 1987, is an American former world No. 1 tennis player. Evert won 18 major singles titles, including a record seven French Open titles and a joint-record six US Open titles (tied with Serena Williams). She was ranked world No. 1 for 260 weeks, and was the year-end world No. 1 singles player seven times (1974–78, 1980, 1981). Alongside Martina Navratilova, her greatest rival, Evert dominated women's tennis in the 1970s and 1980s.  Evert reached 34 major singles finals, the most in history. In singles, Evert reached the semifinals or better in 52 of the 56 majors she played, including at 34 consecutive majors entered from the 1971 US Open through the 1983 French Open. She never lost in the first or second round of a major, and lost in the third round only twice. She holds the record of most consecutive years (13) of winning at least one major title. Evert's career winning percentage in singles matches of 89.97% (1309–146) is the second highest in the Open Era, for men or women. On clay courts, her career winning percentage in singles matches of 94.55% (382–22) remains a WTA Tour record. She also won three major doubles titles.  Evert served as president of the Women's Tennis Association for eleven years, 1975–76 and 1983–91. She was awarded the Philippe Chatrier award and inducted into the Hall of Fame. In later life, Evert was a coach and is now an analyst for ESPN, and has a line of tennis and active apparel.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP]  Shahrul Azhar bin Ture (born 15 September 1985) is a Malaysian footballer who plays as a midfielder for the Malaysia Super League club PKNS.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP]  Shah Hirul is a Singaporean footballer who plays for Balestier Khalsa as a Midfielder. Before moving to the Tigers, he was with Geylang International.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP]  According to Sardar, he was first introduced to the sport when he started to kick balls on a family trip in Turkmenistan   when he was 9. He began his career at Oghab Gonbad of Gonbad-e Kavus. He also played volleyball and was invited to Iran's national under-15 volleyball team. After some years, he joined Shamoushak Gorgan, before joining Etka Gorgan, who were playing in Division 1 in Iran at the time.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP]  Azri was the first-choice right-back for the Wasps of Borneo, appearing for the team at youth level at three Southeast Asian Games tournaments, and was part of the triumphant squad that won the Hassanal Bolkiah Trophy in 2012. Azri played 4 games at the 2011 SEA Games in Jakarta, where Brunei came second from bottom in Group B. The 2013 edition held in Myanmar saw winless Brunei finish last in their group, and Azri was ever-present at right-back. Picked again for the 2015 SEA Games in Singapore, a team spearheaded by Prince Faiq Bolkiah failed to match the hype as they lost all of their five games. Azri
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP] Preliminary Group C Defeated (2-1) ; Defeated (9-0) ; Defeated (3-1) ; Defeated (6-1) Semifinals Lost to (0-2) Third place match Drew with (1-1) Replay of third place match Lost to (1-4) Ali Iqtidar Shah Dara (captain) ; Shahzada Shahrukh (vice-captain) ; M Anwar Beg Moghal (gk) ; Syed Mohammad Saleem (gk) ; Mohammad Niaz Khan ; Shahzada Mohammad Khurram ; Hamidullah Burki ; Abdul Ghafoor Khan ; Masood Ahmed Khan ; Mahmoodul Hasan Sheikh ; Abdul Aziz Malik ; Abdul Qayyum Khan ; Abdul Razzaq ; Khawaja Mohammad Taqi ; Mukhtar Bhatti ; Abdul Hameed ; Azizur Rehman Khan ; Rehmatullah Sheikh ; Milton D'Mello        Pakistan finished 4th Team Roster  Pakistan captain Ali Iqtidar Shah (A I S) Dara had represented (undivided) India's gold medal winning men's hockey team at the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. Hockey vice-captain Shahzada Shahrukh appeared for Pakistan in the cycling event of the Melbourne Olympics in 1956
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP] 2011 Malaysia FA Cup  The 2011 Malaysia FA Cup, also known as the "Astro Piala FA" due to the competition's sponsorship by Astro Arena, was the 22nd season of the Malaysia FA Cup, a knockout competition for Malaysia's state football association and clubs.  Negeri Sembilan FA were the defending champions.  The cup winner were guaranteed a place in the 2012 AFC Cup.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP] 2015 Malaysia Premier League  The 2015 Liga Premier () was the 12th season of the Liga Premier, the second-tier professional football league in Malaysia.  The season was held from January and concluded in August 2015.<ref name="LP2015"/>  The Liga Premier champions for 2015 season was Kedah.<ref name="LP2015"/> The champions and runners-up were both promoted to 2016 Liga Super.
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP] Malaysia national football team results  Malaysia national football team 1963–present results.  <section begin=Keynotes/> <section end=Keynotes/>
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP]
What sport does Shahrul Azhar Ture play? [SEP] 2017 Kedah FA season  The 2017 season was Kedah FA's 9th season in the Malaysia Super League since its inception in 2004. They will also eligible to compete in FA Cup and Malaysia Cup.
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP]  The 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina was a series of rugby union matches played by the France national team in Argentina. It was the first official visit of a European team in South America. Between the two test match was played an exhibition match between two mixed teams both formed of Argentinian and French Team. The "Blancos" (White) won against "Colorados" (Red) (24–14). Many referee were British people who lived in Argentina.
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP]  Garese, M. Morón, C. A. Mercader, R. Ferrando, R. Méndez, J. Ocampo, H. Dutil, L. Saraví, E. Weber, R. Arce, M. Galván, R. Gitard, R. Gorostiaga, H. Nocetti, P. Oppici. France: N. Baudry, R. Geneste, H. Dutrain, M. Terreau, J. Lassegue, G. Dufau, P. Lasaosa, J. Matheu, An. Moga, R. Lacrampe, Al. Moga, R. Soro, P. Aristouy, L. Martin, E. Buzy. Pucará: G. Niveiro, P. Bereciartúa, A. Palma, J. C. de Pablo, L. Ehrman, R. E. Giles, G. Ehrman, H. de Pablo, D. Bereciartúa, E. Domínguez, A. Fernández, A. Barnadas, L. Carratelli, E. Dacharry, J. C. Petrone. Capital: J. Genoud, 'W. Chiswell, J. Hardie, W. Mc Minn, R. Gilderdale, P. Macadam,
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP]  Benítez Cruz, D. Hughes, A. Phillips, B. Grigolon, L. Maurette, A. Bori, C. Peterson, E. Verzoletto, G. Hardie. France: : N. Baudry, H. Dutrain, M. Terreau, F. Desclaux, J. Lassegue, G. Dufau, Y. Bergougnan, Prat, J. Matheu, R. Soro, Al. Moga, L. Caron, M. Jol, E. Buzy. Estudiantes (P): M. Avellaneda, R. Castello, F. Luján, O. Gomes, F. Rodríguez Gurruchaga, F. García, F. Torné, M. Benavente, F. Fonseca, C. Ferrer, R. Caino, R. Arcioni, F. Borches, C. Rabuffetti, D. Kaufman. France: : F. Desclaux, R. Geneste, M Terreau, H. Dutrain, J. Lassegue, N. Baudry, G. Dufau, Prat, An. Moga, R. Lacrampe, Al. Moga, R. Soro, L. Caron, J. Matheu, P. Aristouy.
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP]  Villalonga, L. Allen, M. Sarandón, H, Conti, J. Morganti, C. Rolón, C. Taccioli, C. Orti. France: N. Baudry, M. Pomathios, F. Dizabo, F. Desclaux, R. Geneste, M. Terreau, P. Lasaosa, Prat, A. Moga, R. Lacrampe, R. Soro, Al. Moga, L. Caron, L. Martín, P. Aristouy. Club Fundadores: E. Moore, W. Chiswell, J. Hardie, W. Mc Minn, R. Gilderdale, P. Macadam, J. Pow, D. Hughes, A. Phillips, E. Lucotti, A. Bori, G. Daw, G. Bridger, G. Hardie, E. Stocks. France: N. Baudry; M. Pomathios, F. Desclaux, R. Geneste; J. Lassegue, "M. Terreau, Y. Bergougnan, R. Lacrampe, G. Basquet, J. Matheu, R. Soro, Al. Moga, E. Buzy, M. Jol, L. Caron. La Plata:
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP] Notes Complete list of matches played by France in Argentina: Test matches
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP] History of rugby union  The history of rugby union follows from various football games long before the 19th century, but it was not until the middle of that century that the rules were formulated and codified. The code of football later known as rugby union can be traced to three events: the first set of written rules in 1845, the Blackheath Club's decision to leave the Football Association in 1863 and the formation of the Rugby Football Union in 1871. The code was originally known simply as "rugby football". It was not until a schism in 1895, over the payment of players, which resulted in the formation of the separate code of rugby league, that the name "rugby union" was used to differentiate the original rugby code. For most of its history, rugby was a strictly amateur football code, and the sport's administrators frequently imposed bans and restrictions on players who they viewed as professional. It was not until 1995 that rugby union was declared an "open" game, and thus professionalism was sanctioned by the code's governing body, World Rugby—then known as the International Rugby Football Board (IRFB).
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP] Sport in Argentina  The practice of sports in Argentina is varied due to the population's diverse European origins and the mostly mild climate. Association football is the most popular discipline and other sports played both professionally and recreatively athletics, auto racing, basketball, boxing, cycling, field hockey, fishing, golf, handball, mountaineering, mountain biking, padel tennis, polo, roller hockey, rowing, rugby union, sailing, skiing, swimming, tennis, and volleyball. Argentine achievements can be found in team sports such as association football, basketball, field hockey and rugby union, and individual sports such as boxing, golf, tennis and rowing. Pato, the national sport, is not very popular.  Argentina is one of the most important sport powers in the region, ending at the top of the medal count at the South American Games since 1978, with exceptions in 2002 and 2010. In the all-time medal table of the Pan American Games, Argentina holds first place among South American countries and fourth place in the Americas, behind the United States, Canada and Cuba. Despite a relative lack of success at the Olympic level in more traditional sports like athletics, swimming, and gymnastics, Argentina has had successful participations in other sports like association football, basketball, field hockey, roller hockey, padel tennis, polo and rugby union.
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP] New Zealand national rugby union team  The New Zealand national rugby union team, commonly known as the All Blacks (), represents New Zealand in men's international rugby union, which is considered the country's national sport. The team won the Rugby World Cup in 1987, 2011 and 2015. They were the first country to win the Rugby World Cup 3 times and the first country to retain the Rugby World Cup.  New Zealand has a 76 per-cent winning record in test-match rugby, and has secured more wins than losses against every test opponent. Since their international debut in 1903, New Zealand teams have played test matches against 19 nations, of which 12 have never won a game against the All Blacks. The team has also played against three multinational all-star teams, losing only eight of 45 matches. Since the introduction of the World Rugby Rankings in 2003, New Zealand has held the number-one ranking longer than all other teams combined. They jointly hold the record for the most consecutive test match wins for a tier-one ranked nation, along with England.  The All Blacks compete with Argentina, Australia and South Africa in the Rugby Championship, and have won the trophy nineteen times in the competition's 27-year history. The team has completed a Grand Slam tour against the four Home Nations four times (1978, 2005, 2008 and 2010). World Rugby has named New Zealand the World Rugby Team of the Year ten times since the award was initiated in 2001,<ref name="PastIRBawards"> </ref> and an All Black has won the World Rugby Player of the Year award ten times over the same period. Fifteen former All Blacks have been inducted into the International Rugby Hall of Fame.  The team's first match took place in 1884 in New South Wales and their first international test match in 1903 against Australia in Sydney. The following year New Zealand hosted their first home test, a match against a British Isles side in Wellington. There followed a 34-game tour of Europe and North America in 1905 (which included five test matches), where New Zealand suffered only one defeat: their first test loss, against Wales.  New Zealand's early uniforms consisted of a black jersey with a silver fern and white shorts. By the 1905 tour they were wearing all black, except for the silver fern, and the name "All Blacks" dates from this time.  The team perform a haka before every match; this is a Māori challenge or posture dance. Traditionally the All Blacks use Te Rauparaha's haka "Ka Mate", although players have also performed "Kapa o Pango" since 2005.
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP]
What sport does 1949 France rugby union tour of Argentina play? [SEP] Barry Holmes  William Barry Holmes (6 January 1928 – 10 November 1949) was a rugby union player who played for the England national rugby union team and the Argentina national rugby union team. As of 2011 he is the only player to have been capped at senior level by both those two countries.  Holmes was born in Buenos Aires on 6 January 1928 to British parents.<ref name=scrum2/> He was educated at St. George's College, Quilmes, and began his rugby union career playing for the Old Georgian Club in Buenos Aires.<ref name=scrum1/> He travelled to Britain to continue his education at Queens' College, Cambridge and was selected to play for Cambridge University R.U.F.C. in The Varsity Match twice, playing on the wing in 1947 and at fullback in 1948.<ref name=scrum1/> Holmes returned to Argentina in 1948 as part of the 1948 Oxford-Cambridge rugby union tour of Argentina, a touring team made up of players from both Cambridge University RUFC and Oxford University RFC which won all nine of its tour matches, including two against the Argentina national team.<ref name=scrum1/>  Holmes's form for Cambridge University in the 1948–49 season led to two appearances in the trial matches for the England team and also an invitation to play for the Barbarians in their annual fixture against Leicester.<ref name=scrum1/> His performance in the second trial match clinched his selection at fullback in England's team for their opening match of the 1949 Five Nations Championship against Wales at Cardiff Arms Park and he retained his place for the whole championship.<ref name=scrum1/> Holmes won four caps for England and scored a conversion in each match against Ireland and France for a total of four points.<ref name=scrum2/>  After playing on the Barbarians' 1949 tour of South Wales, Holmes returned to live in Argentina and was selected for the national team after only two games for Old Georgians.<ref name=scrum1/> He was capped twice for Argentina against France in August and September 1949 but did not score any points.<ref name=scrum2/> He was married in November 1949 and moved to Salta but died of typhoid fever on 10 November 1949, less than a week after his wedding.<ref name=scrum1/>  England rugby historian Barry Bowker described Holmes as a "steady fullback" while Clem Thomas, a teammate at Cambridge and a Wales international himself, called him "a marvellous man and a great footballer" and said that the news of his death "depressed us enormously".<ref name=scrum1/>
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]  Maximiliano Pablo Cuberas Escalas (born 16 August 1973 in Villada, Santa Fe), known as Maximiliano Cuberas, is an Argentine football defender who retired playing for Ferro Carril Oeste.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]  José Miguel Cubero Loría (born 14 February 1987) is a Costa Rican footballer who plays for Liga Deportiva Alajuelense and for the Costa Rica national football team as a holding midfielder.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]  He participated in the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup held in Canada. Cubero made his senior debut for Costa Rica in an August 2010 friendly match against Paraguay and has, as of April 2014, earned a total of 34 caps, scoring 2 goals. He has represented his country in 9 FIFA World Cup qualification matches and played at the 2014 FIFA World Cup, the 2011 Copa Centroamericana as well as at the 2011 Copa América and was a non-playing squad member at the 2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]  from the Liga de Voleibol Superior Masculino, playing with Gigantes de Adjuntas. He played for this team from 2002 to 2006. Before playing volleyball, Contreras was practicing athletics, especially hurdling, high jump and long jump. Contreras had also tried karate and tennis, but he was tired of individual sports and started to play volleyball, which he preferred over basketball. On May 27, 2008, Contreras revealed that he will sign a lucrative one-year deal with Ziraat Bankası Ankara. He returned to Roeselare after one season. In recognition of his performance during the 2009, he won the "Luchador Olmeca" award in January, 2010.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]  Villalobos has played American football since he was five years old. His father also played college football with the Águilas Blancas of the Instituto Politécnico Nacional. Villalobos started in lower categories playing for several teams of the Atizapán area in Greater Mexico City. After finishing high school, he was offered a scholarship to play football in the Borregos Salvajes CEM.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP] 2015 Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito season  Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito's 2015 season was the club's 85th year of existence, the 62nd year in professional football, and the 54th in the top level of professional football in Ecuador.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP] 2014 Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito season  Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito's 2014 season was the club's 84th year of existence, the 61st year in professional football, and the 53rd in the top level of professional football in Ecuador.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP] 2022 Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito season  Liga Deportiva Universitaria de Quito's 2022 season was the club's 92nd year of existence, the 69th year in professional football, and the 61st in the top level of professional football in Ecuador.
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP]
What sport does Maximiliano Cuberas play? [SEP] represented Mexico in Rio 2016 Olympic games Amateur Professional Rodolfo Cazaubón Rodolfo Cazaubón Jr. (born 5 August 1989) is a Mexican professional golfer who currently plays on the Web.com Tour. Cazaubón played college golf at the University of North Texas where he won three tournaments in his senior year and was an All-American in 2013. He played on the Mexican team in the 2010 and 2012 Eisenhower Trophy. The 2012 team finished second to the United States by five strokes. He also played on the Mexican team in the 2011 World University Games, helping the team to a bronze medal.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP]  The 1970 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship Final was the 39th All-Ireland Final and the deciding match of the 1970 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship, an inter-county camogie tournament for the top teams in Ireland. The final was marred by persistent fouls. Cork led by 7 points at half-time and won by 11 in end, a young Liz Garvan scoring 3-6.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP]  Kilkenny won the Leinster Championship for the first time when they defeated Dublin 5–3 to 4–3 and received an unexpected bye to the All-Ireland final when Galway withdrew, receiving a three-month suspension from Central Council for failing to fulfil the fixture. Cork owe their victory over Antrim to a tremendous opening quarter when they raced into an eleven-point lead with two goals from Pat Moloney and a third from Rosie Hennessy.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP]  The 1970 All-Ireland Senior Camogie Championship was the high point of the 1970 season. The championship was won by Cork, who defeated Killkenny by an 11-point margin in the final. The match drew an attendance of 4,000.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP]  After decades of dominance by Dublin, the camogie championship had been thrown open by events of the previous 18 months. Five counties Wexford, Antrim, Kilkenny, Cork and Dublin were serious contenders for the 1969 title with Tipperary and Galway not far behind. Cork lost to Tipperary in the Munster semi-final and then Tipp beat limerick in the Munster final. A player from each side was sent off for the first time in an inter-county match in 1969, Mary Graham (Tipperary) and Josie Kehoe (Wexford) were sent off by referee Nancy Murray for rough play in the All Ireland semi-final. Margaret O’Leary struck a late free to the Tipperary net to give Wexford a 4–4 to 3–3 victory. Galway trailed Antrim by seven points at the break in the second semi-final at Glenariffe, then came back with a storming finish only to fail by a single point to catch Antrim.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] 50 minutes ; Replay if scores level ; Maximum of 3 substitutions MATCH RULES
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970  The 1970 All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship for the leading clubs in the women's team field sport of camogie was won for the third year in succession by St Paul’s from Kilkenny, who defeated Bellaghy from Derry in the final, played at Bellaghy .
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1971  The 1971 All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship for the leading clubs in the women's team field sport of camogie was by Austin Stacks from Dublin, who defeated Thurles from Tipperary in the final, played at Croke Park.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1969  The 1969 All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship for the leading clubs in the women's team field sport of camogie was won by St Paul’s from Kilkenny, who defeated Ahane from Limerick in the final, played at Castleconnell.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] All-Ireland Senior Club Hurling Championship  The GAA Hurling All-Ireland Senior Club Championship, known simply as the All-Ireland Club Championship, is an annual inter-county hurling competition organised by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA). It is the highest inter-county club hurling competition in Ireland, and has been contested every year since the 1970-71 championship (except for 2020-2021, due to the COVID-19 pandemic).  The final, currently held on the third Sunday in January, is the culmination of a series of games played between October and February with the winners receiving the Tommy Moore Cup. The All-Ireland Championship has always been played on a straight knockout basis whereby once a team loses they are eliminated from the championship. Currently qualification is limited to teams competing in the Galway Championship, the Leinster Championship, the Munster Championship and the Ulster Championship.  Four teams currently participate in the All-Ireland semi-finals. The most successful teams are from Galway – seven Galway clubs have won the All-Ireland title on 13 separate occasions.  The title has been won by 26 clubs, 10 of whom have won the title more than once. The current holders and all-time record-holders are Ballyhale Shamrocks, who have won the championship on 8 occasions.
What sport does All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship 1970 play? [SEP] All-Ireland Senior Club Camogie Championship  The All-Ireland Club Camogie Championship is a competition for club teams in the Irish women’s field sport of camogie. It is contested by the senior club champions of the leading counties and organised by An Cumann Camógaíochta.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP]  Alexei Mikhailovich Ugarov (Алексей Михайлович Угаров; born November 2, 1985) is a Belarusian professional ice hockey forward. He is currently an unrestricted free agent who most recently played for Severstal Cherepovets of the Kontinental Hockey League (KHL). He previously played three seasons for HC Nizhnekamsk Neftekhimik in the Russian Super League. Ugarov was selected for the Belarus national men's ice hockey team in the 2010 Winter Olympics. He also participated at the 2010 IIHF World Championship as a member of the Belarus National men's ice hockey team.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] Aleksandr Ugarov (born 1982), Russian football player ; Alexei Ugarov (born 1985), Belarusian football player ; Boris Ugarov (1922–1991), Russian realist painter ; Denis Ugarov (born 1975), Russian football coach and a former player Ugarov (Угаров) is a Russian masculine surname, its feminine counterpart is Ugarova. It may refer to
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP]  Denis Vyacheslavovich Ugarov (Денис Вячеславович Угаров; born 26 November 1975) is a Russian professional football coach and a former player.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP]  Alexei Nikolayevich Seliverstov (Алексей Николаевич Селиверстов) (sometimes listed as Aleksey Seliverstov, born July 24, 1976 in Ufa) is a Russian bobsledder who has competed since 1996. Competing in three Winter Olympics, he won the silver medal in the four-man event with teammates Philippe Egorov, Alexandre Zoubkov, and Alexey Voevoda at Turin in 2006. Seliverstov also won two medals in the four-man event at the FIBT World Championships with a silver in 2005 and a bronze in 2003. He participated in the torch relay for 2013 Summer Universiade in Kazan and the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi. He carried both torches through his hometown of Ufa, and lit the city cauldron outside the Ufa Arena with the Olympic torch.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP]  Alexei Dyumin plays amateur hockey, as a rule, in the position of goalkeeper. As an adviser included in the management of the hockey club SKA Saint Petersburg. In October 2011, together with Roman Rotenberg and Gennady Timchenko, he participated in a charity friendly hockey match for the SKA Legends team. On 7 October 2015, Dyumin participated in the Night Hockey League match, which took place in Sochi and was dedicated to the birthday of Russian President Vladimir Putin.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] Belarus at the 2010 Winter Olympics  Belarus participated at the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] 2005 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships rosters  Below are the rosters for the 2005 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships held in the United States.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] 2012 IIHF World Championship rosters  Each team's roster for the 2012 IIHF World Championship consists of at least 15 skaters (forwards, and defencemen) and 2 goaltenders, and at most 22 skaters and 3 goaltenders. All sixteen participating nations, through the confirmation of their respective national associations, had to submit a roster by the first IIHF directorate meeting.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] 2009–10 KHL season  The 2009–10 KHL season was the second season of the Kontinental Hockey League. It was held from 10 September 2009 to 27 April 2010, with a break for the Olympic winter games from 8 February to 3 March. Ak Bars Kazan defended their title by defeating Western conference winners HC MVD in a seven-game play-off final.
What sport does Alexei Ugarov play? [SEP] List of Olympic men's ice hockey players for Belarus  The list of Olympic men's ice hockey players for Belarus consists of 43 skaters and 4 goaltenders. Men's ice hockey tournaments have been staged at the Olympic Games since 1920 (it was introduced at the 1920 Summer Olympics, and was permanently added to the Winter Olympic Games in 1924). Belarus has participated in three tournaments since becoming independent in 1991: 1998, 2002 and 2010. As part of the Soviet Union, Belarus previously participated in the Winter Olympics from 1956 until 1988, as well as with the Unified Team at the 1992 Winter Olympics. Belarus has never won a medal in ice hockey, with their highest finish being fourth in 2002.   Four players — goaltender Andrei Mezin and skaters Oleg Antonenko, Alexei Kalyuzhny, and Ruslan Salei — have played in all three Olympics Belarus has participated in, with Kalyuzhny playing in the most games, 20. Kalyuzhny has scored the most goals for Belarus (5), while Alexander Andrievsky and Dmitri Dudik have the most assists (6). Five players — Andrievsky, Dudik, Kalyuzhny, Andrei Kovalev, and Vadim Bekbulatov — have 7 points, the most scored at the Olympics. Salei is the only Belarusian player to be inducted into the International Ice Hockey Federation Hall of Fame.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP]  He played for Watsonians.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP]  He played for Edinburgh District.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP]  Duncan Lambie (20 April 1952 – December 2015) was a Scottish footballer, who played for Dundee, St Johnstone, SpVgg. Fürth, and Hibernian.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP]  Lambie made his debut for the Sharks against The Highlanders at fullback on 18 March. His debut coincided with the end of the Sharks five game losing streak. He went on to start the next seven consecutive games (losing only one match against the champion Bulls which ended their five-match winning streak) for the Sharks and scoring two tries in the process. Lambie then played for the South African under-20 team in the 2010 IRB Junior World Championship in Argentina. He played fullback for all of the games and ended up as the tournaments second top scorer (behind Tyler Bleyendaal). South Africa ended third in the competition. Lambie joined the for the start of the
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP]  The Sharks then played another 6 games and won 4 of them mainly due to Lambie scoring 89 points in the five games he played, missing one match due to concussion. Lambie recovered from his concussion and returned to action against the Blues and scored 9 points in a tight match. Lambie and the Sharks put in a strong run towards the final of the Super Rugby tournament with Lambie winning the Man-of-the-Match award against the. Lambie would suffer from injury again however and miss the playoff match against the and the semi-final against the Stormers. He would however return to play against the Chiefs in the
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP] 1973–74 Dundee F.C. season  The 1973–74 season was the 72nd season in which Dundee competed at a Scottish national level, playing in Division One, where the club would finish in 5th place for the fourth consecutive season. Domestically, Dundee would also compete in both the Scottish League Cup and the Scottish Cup, where they would get knocked out by Celtic in semi-finals of the Scottish Cup for the second straight year, but would defeat them to win the club's third League Cup. Despite the issues such as a miners' strike and blizzards causing attendances for games to be uncharacteristically low, a Gordon Wallace goal would give Dundee its fifth major title. Dundee would also compete in the UEFA Cup, where they would be knocked out by FC Twente in the 1st round.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP] Stanford Cardinal  The Stanford Cardinal are the athletic teams that represent Stanford University. As of June 2022, Stanford's program has won 131 NCAA team championships. Stanford has won at least one NCAA team championship each academic year for 46 consecutive years, starting in 1976–77 and continuing through 2021–22. Stanford won 25 consecutive NACDA Directors' Cups, from 1994–95 through 2018–19, awarded annually to the most successful overall college sports program in the nation. 177 Stanford-affiliated athletes have won a total of 296 Summer Olympic medals (150 gold, 79 silver, 67 bronze), including 26 medals at the 2020 Tokyo games. Stanford's teams compete at the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I (Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) for college football) level as a member of the Pac-12 Conference, along with other schools from the western third of the United States.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP] Whitburn, West Lothian  Whitburn (originally Whiteburn) is a small town in West Lothian, Scotland, halfway between Scotlands's two largest cities, about east of Glasgow and west of Edinburgh. The nearest major towns are Bathgate, and Livingston, .
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP] John Lambie (footballer, born 1941)  John Lambie (19 March 1941 – 10 April 2018) was a Scottish football player and manager. Lambie made over 200 appearances for Falkirk and also had a successful time with St Johnstone.  After retiring as a player, Lambie had four spells as manager of Partick Thistle. In his third spell, he guided them to consecutive promotions and entry to the Scottish Premier League in 2002, while also leading them to the semi-finals of the Scottish Cup in the same year. He also had spells as manager of Hamilton Academical (twice, winning the First Division in 1986) and Falkirk.  Lambie was known for his eccentricity, cigar smoking and fondness for pigeons. An occasion when he instructed for a concussed player to be told he was Pelé and sent back onto the pitch is one of the most famous quotes in British football.
What sport does Duncan Lambie play? [SEP] Firhill Stadium  Firhill Stadium is a football and former rugby union, rugby league and greyhound racing stadium located in the Maryhill area of Glasgow, Scotland which has been the home of Partick Thistle since 1909. The stadium is commonly referred to as simply Firhill, although between September 2017 and September 2020 it was also known as The Energy Check Stadium at Firhill for sponsorship reasons.   Past ground-sharing agreements have seen Firhill act as a temporary home for three other football clubs: Clyde, Hamilton Academical and Queen’s Park. It was also a venue for the 2000 Rugby League World Cup and the Glasgow Warriors rugby union team between 2007 and 2012. , the all-seated capacity of Firhill is .<ref name="capacity"/>
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]  Saša Janić (born 7 May 1975) is a Croatian German former football player. He spent one season in the Bundesliga with Arminia Bielefeld.
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]  Saša Starović (born 19 October 1988) is a Serbian volleyball player, a member of Serbia men's national volleyball team and French club Tourcoing Lille Métropole, a participant of the Olympic Games (Beijing 2008, London 2012), European Champion 2011, bronze medalist of World Championship 2010, medalist of the European Championship and the World League.
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]  His sister, Sanja Starović is also a volleyball player.
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]  Sasa Palamarevic  (born 16 July 1986) is a Canadian water polo player. He was a member of the Canada national team, playing as a centre forward. He was a part of the team at the 2008 Summer Olympics. On club level, Palamarevic played for Hull in Canada.
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]  Nikitović played for Crvena zvezda, Radnički Obrenovac, Umka, Doboj (Bosnia and Herzegovina) and CSU Sibiu of the Romanian League.
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP] List of people from Croatia  The following is a list of prominent individuals who are or were Croatian citizens or of Croatian ancestry.     singer
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP] List of Serbian sportspeople  This is a partial list of Serbian sportspeople. For the full plain list of Serbian sportspeople on Wikipedia, see .
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP]
What sport does Saša Janić play? [SEP] Top lista nadrealista  Top lista nadrealista ("The Top List of the Surrealists", sometimes "The Surrealists' Chart Toppers")—also known as TLN or Nadrealisti ("Surrealists")—is a Yugoslav sketch comedy and variety television show. Produced by TV Sarajevo, it aired on the nationwide Yugoslav Radio Television (JRT) public broadcasting system in three separate instalments between 1984 and 1991, having originated from a weekly fifteen-minute local radio comedy segment that was part of the "Primus" program on Radio Sarajevo's channel two from 1979 until 1985.  In 1984, after establishing a core radio audience locally in the city of Sarajevo, "Top lista nadrealista" radio segment got spun off into a television sketch series. Two more series on television followed, in 1989 and 1991, making household names of its protagonists all over SFR Yugoslavia and helping launch and solidify successful television, film, and musical careers for some of them (most notably Nele Karajlić and Branko "Đuro" Đurić).  Although eventually best known for insightful and often prophetic political humour, "TLN" initially relied mostly on its protagonists' youthful improvisation and ad-libbing for laughs while staying away from politics entirely. Towards the late 1980s and into the early 1990s—during the show's second and third series, respectively—a period during which some of its most memorable and enduring sketches were created, "Top lista nadrealista" incorporated political satire while infusing their social satire with additional surrealist and black comedy. The show's 1989-1991 popularity is reflected in some of its sketches' language and phrasing entering public vernacular (see Hrkljuš). In the late 1980s and early 1990s, a number of "TLN" sketches dealt with the deteriorating political situation in Yugoslavia that turned out to be a prelude to the Yugoslav Wars with some sketches proving prophetic, portraying a dystopian near-future—featuring the Yugoslav state being disintegrated, the city of Sarajevo divided between different newly-established states, a single family split into two clans warring over control of rooms in their apartment, UN peacekeeping forces adding fuel to the conflict, etc.—years before it became reality.  In the context of the Yugoslav Wars that had already begun as the show's third series was being filmed, "Nadrealisti" held a clear pacifist posture, often using absurdity and dark hyperbole when portraying rising ethnic tensions and imminent war in SR Bosnia and Herzegovina (e.g. warning that "peace may break out and ruin Bosnian harmonious war" or giving alarming instructions on "how the public should act in case of peace").
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP]  Anthony (Tony) Wagstaff (born 19 February 1944 in Wombwell) was an English footballer who played for Reading and Sheffield United in the position of Midfielder. Wagstaff became an apprentice at Bramall Lane in June 1960, turning professional in March 1961. Following promotion to Division One in April 1961, he debuted in a 4–1 home win against Middlesbrough at Bramall Lane on 29 April 1961, in the final match of 1960-61 season. Wagstaff was not a regular in the Sheffield United first team until the latter stages of season 1962-63 when he netted four goals in 15 league appearances, including the winner in a 1–0 victory at Birmingham City on 23 March 1963. In 1963-64, he scored 9 times in 37
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP]  matches, which was the best scoring spell of his career. Many believed that his apparent lack of pace and power reduced the effectiveness of such a skilled player. When his brother Barry made the Blades first team, the pair were often in and out of the side. By the time United were relegated to Division Two in 1968, Tony's appearances had become very limited and the Wagstaffs were sold to Reading for a combined fee of £17,500. Tony had played 157 competitive games (138 league games) for Sheffield United scoring 21 (19 league) goals in all. Tony stayed at Reading until 1973, making 185 competitive appearances (166 league games) and scoring 6 times (5 league goals) for the Royals.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP]  Whips (represented by Aberdeen) in the final. During his time in the United States, Wagstaffe was visited by boyhood friend Davy Jones, lead singer of The Monkees who he had played street football with as a boy. Jack Kent Cooke, a cable television entrepreneur and owner of the Los Angeles Lakers basketball team who had bought the LA Wolves franchise for $250,000, asked Wagstaffe to move to the United States and join his potential business as potential face of American soccer, but after returning to Wolverhampton, Wagstaffe decided against pursuing the opportunity. Whilst at Blackburn Rovers on 2 October 1976, Wagstaffe was the first player in English football to receive a red card. Despite Wagstaffe's talent, he was never capped for England, though he was selected to play on the left wing in the Football League versus the Scottish League match at Ayresome Park, Middlesbrough, in 1972.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP]  Don Wagstaff (born 24 July 1949) is an Australian former diver who competed in the 1968 Summer Olympics, in the 1972 Summer Olympics, and in the 1976 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP]  In 2009, Wagstaff was a member of the Australian University National Team that travelled to Serbia to play in the World University Games. He averaged 18 points per game. He received a call-up to join the Australian Boomers in June 2010 ahead of their three-game series with Argentina. The following year, he played for the Boomers during the YouYi Games against China. In 2013, he played for the Boomers during the Sino-Australia Challenge against China. Wagstaff's next international duties came when he was named in a 20-man Boomers squad ahead of the 2017 FIBA Asia Cup. In 2018, he played for the Boomers at the Commonwealth Games, winning a gold medal and averaging 8.8 points per game. He played for the Boomers again during the 2019 FIBA World Cup qualifiers.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP] Jesse Wagstaff  Jesse Kendall James Wagstaff (born 30 April 1986) is an Australian professional basketball player for the Perth Wildcats of the National Basketball League (NBL). After playing college basketball for the Metro State Roadrunners in the United States, he joined the Wildcats in 2009 and won Rookie of the Year and a championship in his first season in the NBL. He went on to earn NBL Best Sixth Man in 2012 and then won five more championships in 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2020.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP] Dick Clark  Richard Wagstaff Clark (November 30, 1929April 18, 2012) was an American radio and television personality, television producer and film actor, as well as a cultural icon who remains best known for hosting "American Bandstand" from 1956 to 1989. He also hosted five incarnations of the "Pyramid" game show from 1973 to 1988 and "Dick Clark's New Year's Rockin' Eve", which transmitted New Year's Eve celebrations in New York City's Times Square.  As host of "American Bandstand", Clark introduced rock & roll to many Americans. The show gave many new music artists their first exposure to national audiences, including Ike & Tina Turner, Smokey Robinson and the Miracles, Stevie Wonder, Simon & Garfunkel, Iggy Pop, Prince, Talking Heads, and Madonna. Episodes he hosted were among the first in which black people and white people performed on the same stage, and they were among the first in which the live studio audience sat down together without racial segregation. Singer Paul Anka claimed that "Bandstand" was responsible for creating a "youth culture". Due to his perennially youthful appearance and his largely teenaged audience of "American Bandstand", Clark was often referred to as "America's oldest teenager" or "the world's oldest teenager".  In his off-stage roles, Clark served as chief executive officer of Dick Clark Productions company (though he sold off his financial interest in his later years). He also founded the "American Bandstand Diner", a restaurant chain modeled after the Hard Rock Cafe. In 1973, he created and produced the annual American Music Awards show, similar to the Grammy Awards.<ref name=HOF/>
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP] List of Bob's Burgers characters  This is a list of characters from the American animated television series "Bob's Burgers".
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP] 1960 Buffalo Bills season  The 1960 Buffalo Bills season was the club's first season in the American Football League (AFL). Home games were played at War Memorial Stadium in Buffalo, New York. Head Coach Buster Ramsey's Bills compiled a 5–8–1 record, placing them third in the AFL Eastern Division.  Unlike most of the offensive-minded AFL, the Bills focused on defense, allowing the third-fewest points in the league (303). Their defensive line boasted Laverne Torczon and Chuck McMurtry (both of whom were 1st Team All-AFL in 1960), as well as a mobile, hard-hitting middle linebacker in Archie Matsos, who was AFL All-Star in each of the three seasons he spent in Buffalo. The Bills' defense led the league in fewest passing yards allowed (2,130) and most passes intercepted (33), with NFL veterans Richie McCabe and Jim Wagstaff in their secondary.  The Bills' offense, however, was not as competent. The 1960 Bills had the worst passing attack in the AFL, throwing for 2,346 yards. Former Cleveland Browns quarterback Tommy O'Connell started the season 1–3 before being replaced by Johnny Green. Green would go 3–3 as a starter, despite only completing 39% of his passes. Richie Lucas, the Bills' first ever draft pick, was a bust, both at quarterback and at halfback, throwing only 49 passes all season.  The Bills did show glimmers of hope on offense, however, by showcasing running back Wray Carlton and flanker Elbert Dubenion, who would later go on to be AFL All-Stars for the Bills in the mid-1960s.
What sport does Tony Wagstaff play? [SEP] Perth Wildcats  The Perth Wildcats are an Australian professional basketball team based in Perth, Western Australia. The Wildcats compete in the National Basketball League (NBL) and play their home games at RAC Arena, known colloquially as "The Jungle".  After three years of strong lobbying to the NBL, the creation of a national basketball team in Perth finally occurred in 1982. The Westate Wildcats were established and played out of the 800-seat Perry Lakes Basketball Stadium. Interest in basketball steadily grew throughout the community and in 1984 the Westate Wildcats became the Perth Wildcats. The Wildcats have gone on to become the highest-drawing and most successful team in the league, having won NBL championships in 1990, 1991, 1995, 2000, 2010, 2014, 2016, 2017, 2019 and 2020, placing the team four ahead of Melbourne United, who has six championships. Between 1987 and 2021, the Wildcats made the post-season 35 straight years, an accomplishment matched by no other professional sports team in Australia.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP]  George Marcus Burley (born 23 December 1900) was an English professional footballer who played predominantly as a centre forward. Born in West Ham, he started his career with Ellesmere Port and later played for Chester. In October 1926, Burley was signed by Football League First Division side Burnley. He made his debut for the club in the goalless draw with Bury on 6 November 1926. Burley made only one more appearance during the 1926–27, deputising for Joe Devine in the 0–2 defeat away at Huddersfield Town on 12 March 1927. He again made just two league appearances in the following campaign. Burley played his last competitive match for Burnley on 8 February 1928 in the 1–3 loss to Aston Villa, a game which saw Archie Heslop and Joe Mantle make their debuts for the club. Burley remained at Turf Moor until July 1929, when he left to sign for Colwyn Bay. He later played for Stalybridge Celtic and had a second spell at Chester.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP]  Gary Steven Burley (born December 8, 1952) is a former American football player who was defensive end for the Cincinnati Bengals and Atlanta Falcons of the National Football League. He played for the Cincinnati Bengals from 1976-1983, and the Atlanta Falcons in 1984. In 2006, Burley founded the Pro Start Academy, a Birmingham, Alabama-based organization that 'mentors young athletes and provides tips on how they can achieve success on and off the football field'. In 2014, he suffered from salmonella poisoning in his knee and used a wheelchair for six months.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP]  Andre Maurice Keith Burley (born 22 August 1999) is a professional footballer who plays as a defender for Maidenhead United on loan from Wycombe Wanderers. Born in England, he represents Saint Kitts and Nevis internationally.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP]  George Edward Turley (1931-2010), was an English international lawn and indoor bowler and Middlesbrough footballer.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP]  He played professional football for Middlesbrough F.C. from 1949 until 1951.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP] George Burley  George Elder Burley (born 3 June 1956) is a Scottish former football player and manager. He had a professional career spanning 21 years as a player, making 628 league appearances and earning 11 Scotland caps. His most successful spell came while at Ipswich Town making 394 senior appearances, and being part of the squad that won the FA Cup and UEFA Cup in 1978 and 1981 respectively.  Burley's managerial career began in 1990 with Ayr United and has since spent spells at seven different clubs, including an eight-year spell back at Ipswich Town as manager, which included a promotion to the Premier League and guiding the club to a fifth place league finish at that level. On 24 January 2008 he was appointed manager of the Scotland national team. He was sacked on 16 November 2009, following a 3–0 defeat to Wales.  His nephew, Craig, is also a former Scotland international footballer.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP] Craig Burley  Craig William Burley (born 24 September 1971) is a Scottish former professional footballer and sports television pundit and co-commentator for ESPN.  As a player he was a midfielder from 1989 until 2004, notably playing in the Premier League for Chelsea and Derby County and in the Scottish Premier League for Celtic. He also played for Dundee and finished his career in the Football League with Preston North End and Walsall. He earned 46 caps for Scotland, scoring 3 goals.  Since retiring and working as a pundit amongst others he has worked for BBC Sport, ESPN and BT Sport.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP] Finidi George  George Finidi (born 15 April 1971), known as Finidi George, is a Nigerian professional football coach and former player who is currently the head coach of Nigeria Professional Football League club Enyimba F.C. As a player, he played as a right winger.  After making a name for himself at Ajax in the Netherlands – being a leading figure in a team which won eight major titles, including the 1995 Champions League – he played several years in Spain with Real Betis, also having a brief spell in England before retiring.  Finidi was an important member of the Nigeria team during the 1990s, appearing in two World Cups.  Finidi played throughout his footballing career for Nigeria with his iconic number 7 jersey.  In September 2021, Enyimba F.C. named Finidi as their new head coach.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP] 2005–06 Heart of Midlothian F.C. season  The 2005–06 season was the 109th season of competitive football by Heart of Midlothian, and their 23rd consecutive season in the top level of Scottish football, competing in the Scottish Premier League. Hearts also competed in the Scottish Cup and Scottish League Cup.
What sport does George Burley play? [SEP] Vladimir Romanov's ownership of Heart of Midlothian F.C.  Vladimir Romanov, a Russian born Lithuanian businessman, initially acquired 19.6% stake at Hearts during the 2004–05 season. After Romanov made financial guarantees, his stake increased to 29.9%, which was welcomed by a fans representatives. Romanov eventually increased his majority share in Hearts to 82%.  Romanov no longer has any links to HMFC as both Ukio Bankas and UBIG have become insolvent. His shares are held by the liquidators of UBIG. An arrest warrant has supposedly been issued in his name to answer a number of irregularities in the accounts of both Ukio Bankas and UBIG.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]  Guilherme Andrade da Silva, commonly known as Guilherme Andrade, (born 31 January 1989 in Montes Claros) is a Brazilian footballer who plays as a right back for Barretos.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]  FIFA Club World Cup
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]  Andrade was born in Lisbon. After playing his youth football at Sporting CP, he went on to represent G.D. Estoril Praia, C.F. Estrela da Amadora, C.F. Os Belenenses, S.L. Benfica (five years, with one season loaned to S.C. Braga), Académica de Coimbra, C.D. Pinhalnovense, C.D. Olivais e Moscavide and Odivelas FC. Andrade also had abroad spells with CD Tenerife (Spanish second division) and AEP Paphos FC (Cypriot First Division, a few months), and finished his 20-year senior career in the regional championships in 2013, with Grupo Sportivo Loures and Odivelas again. He amassed Primeira Liga totals of 193 games and one goal over 12 seasons, and was a member of the Portuguese national side that competed at the 1996 Olympic Games, helping them reach the fourth place.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]  Giovannoni has competed with the senior men's Brazilian national basketball team, at the 2002, 2006, 2010, and 2014 FIBA World Cups. He was also a part of the Brazilian teams at the 2012 Summer Olympics, and the 2016 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP] Notes
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP] 2016 Sport Club Corinthians Paulista season  The 2016 season was the 107th season in the history of Sport Club Corinthians Paulista.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP] Sport Club do Recife  Sport Club do Recife, (; known as Sport Recife or Sport, is a Brazilian sports club, located in the city of Recife, in the Brazilian state of Pernambuco. Founded in 1905, the club currently plays in Série B.   In football, the club has won six CBD/CBF titles, including three national and three regional. Its greatest achievements are winning the 1987 Brazilian Championship and 2008 Copa do Brasil. ↵In addition to professional football, the club also participates in women's football and Olympic sports, such as rowing, swimming, hockey, basketball, futsal, volleyball, table tennis, taekwondo, judo and athletics.  Their historical rival is Santa Cruz, and they both dispute the Clássico das Multidões. The derby against Náutico is called the Clássico dos Clássicos, while the derby with América is called the Clássico dos Campeões.
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP]
What sport does Guilherme Andrade play? [SEP] Johnny Walker (fighter)  Walker Johnny da Silva Barra Souza (born March 30, 1992), best known as Johnny Walker, is a Brazilian mixed martial artist. He currently competes in the Light Heavyweight division in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC). A professional competitor since 2013, he gained entrance into the UFC by competing on "Dana White's Contender Series" and also previously competed for Jungle Fight in his native Brazil. As of December 6, 2022, he is #12 in the UFC light heavyweight rankings.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP]  Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan (née Tufan on 8 August 1964) is a retired Romanian foil fencer. She competed at the 1984, 1988 and 1992 Olympics and won a silver and a bronze team medal in 1984 and 1992, respectively. Her best individual result was fourth place in 1984. She won the individual world title in 1987 and team silver medals in 1987, 1993 and 1995. After retiring from competitions she worked as a fencing coach in Milan, Italy.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP]  Yurtdagülen began her sports career at the age of eleven in Yeşilyurt, and played there in all age categories. In June 2012, she transferred to Galatasaray.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP]  She played in the Turkey girl's and junior women's national team. She was called up to the Turkey women's national volleyball team, and played at the 2014 Women's European Volleyball League that won the gold medal.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP]  Marina Tumas (Марына Тумас; Марина Тумас; born September 17, 1984) is a Belarusian volleyball player. She is 188 cm. She plays for İller Bankası Team in Turkey. She played over 130 times for national team. She also played for Atlant Baranovichi, Kovrovschik Brest and Minsk Slavjenko in Belarus, Azerrail Baku in Azerbaijan, Yeşilyurt, Ilbank, Beşiktaş, Karşıyaka, Beylikdüzü, Karayolları, TED Ankara Koleji and Fenerbahçe Acıbadem in Turkey.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP]  Atalay competes for Kahramanmaraş Gençlik Gücü SK in Kahramanmaraş. She enjoyed the champion title with the national team at the 2015 IBSA Goalball European Championships Division A in Kaunas, Lithuania, which was a qualifier competition for the 2016 Paralympics. She was a member of the women's national goalball team at the 2016 Paralympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. She won the gold medal with her teammates at the Paralympics.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP] Fencing at the 1992 Summer Olympics – Women's foil  The women's foil was one of eight fencing events on the fencing at the 1992 Summer Olympics programme. It was the fourteenth appearance of the event. The competition was held on 30 July 1992. 46 fencers from 19 nations competed.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP] Fencing at the 1984 Summer Olympics – Women's foil  The women's foil was one of eight fencing events on the fencing at the 1984 Summer Olympics programme. It was the twelfth appearance of the event. The competition was held from 2 to 3 August 1984. 42 fencers from 18 nations competed.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP] Fencing at the 1988 Summer Olympics – Women's foil  The women's foil was one of eight fencing events on the fencing at the 1988 Summer Olympics programme. It was the thirteenth appearance of the event. The competition was held from 21 to 22 September 1988. 45 fencers from 19 nations competed.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP] 1964 in Romania  Events from the year 1964 in Romania. The year saw increasing separation from Soviet influence.
What sport does Elisabeta Guzganu-Tufan play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in fencing (women)  This is the complete list of women's Olympic medalists in fencing.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]  Aguilar has also been a member of the senior men's Spain national team. He played at EuroBasket 2013, where he won a bronze medal, and at EuroBasket 2015, where he won a gold medal.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]  Pablo Aguilar Bermúdez (born 9 February 1989) is a Spanish professional basketball player for the Kawasaki Brave Thunders of the B.League. He plays the power forward position.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]  Pablo César Aguilar Benítez (born 2 April 1987) is a Paraguayan professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for Liga MX club Cruz Azul. From March to July 2017, Aguilar served a ten-match suspension after head-butting a referee.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]  Pablo Aguilar (born 13 September 1984) is an Argentine football right back currently playing for San Martín San Juan. Aguilar made his professional debut in 2003 playing for Chacarita Juniors in the Argentine Primera División. At the end of the 2003–2004 season Chacarita were relegated, but Argilar stayed with the club in the 2nd division until 2007 when he joined Newell's Old Boys. He became a Mexican naturalised citizen.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]  As of 3 June 2015, Aguilar has played in 22 games with the Paraguay national team, scoring four times. He scored his first goal on 17 October 2012 in the 1–0 victory against Peru.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP] Pablo Aguilar (footballer, born 1987)  Pablo César Aguilar Benítez (born 2 April 1987) is a Paraguayan professional footballer who plays as a centre-back.  From March to July 2017, Aguilar served a ten-match suspension after head-butting a referee.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP] Paul Aguilar  Paul Nicolás Aguilar Rojas (born 6 March 1986) is a Mexican professional footballer who plays as a right-back.  Aguilar represented Mexico at the 2010 and 2014 FIFA World Cup, as well as the 2011 and 2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup, and the Copa América Centenario.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP] List of Rebelde Way characters  The article contains a list of main characters in "Rebelde Way" (2002–2003), an Argentine telenovela, which was popular during its broadcast. It was produced by Cris Morena. The band Erreway was formed during the development of this telenovela.
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP]
What sport does Pablo Aguilar play? [SEP] Football in Paraguay  Football is by far the most popular sport in Paraguay. Paraguay's national team has played at eight FIFA World Cup competitions and has won two Copa América tournaments. Olimpia Asunción is the country's most successful club in domestic and international competitions. Paraguay's football leagues are divided into four divisions. In 2020, Paraguay's top-tier was ranked 8th in the world by the IFFHS.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]  Sava Paunović (born 1947) is a former football forward who played in Yugoslavia and Turkey.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]  Born in Yugoslavia, Paunović started playing football for local side KFK Radnički, helping them achieve promotion to the Yugoslav First League in 1969. He would join fellow First League side FK Partizan for the 1976–77 season. In 1977, Paunović moved to Turkey, joining Süper Lig side Beşiktaş J.K. for two seasons. He made 55 appearances and scored 22 goals in the league for the club. The Turkish Football Federation imposed a ban on foreign players in the league beginning in 1979, so Paunović returned to Yugoslavia to finish his career with KFK Radnički.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]  Paunović started to play basketball in his hometown Niš, for the OKK Konstantin youth selections. In Summer 2014, he joined the Crvena zvezda youth. He won the second place at the 2017–18 Junior ABA League season with the Zvezda. Over six season games, he averaged 14.2 points, 5.7 rebounds and 3.2 assists per game. In August 2017, he participated at the Basketball Without Borders Europe Camp 16 in Netanya, Israel.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]  Savanović has been a member of the Serbian national team at the 2010 FIBA World Championship where Serbia was defeated 99-88 by Lithuania in the game for the bronze medal. He was capped for the national team of Serbia at the EuroBasket 2011 in Lithuania where Serbia finished 8th. He averaged 13.4 points and 3.6 rebounds per game.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]  Sava Ranđelović (born 17 July 1993) is a Serbian water polo player for VasasPlaket and the Serbia men's national water polo team. Representing Serbia, he won European Championship gold medals in 2014, 2016, and 2018. He also won a gold medal at the World Championships in 2015, and Olympic gold medals in 2016 and 2020.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP] Ada Ciganlija  Ada Ciganlija (, ), colloquially shortened to Ada, is a river island that has artificially been turned into a peninsula, located in the Sava River's course through central Belgrade, Serbia. The name can also refer to the adjoining artificial Lake Sava and its beach. To take advantage of its central location, over the past few decades, it was turned into an immensely popular recreational zone, most notable for its beaches and sports facilities, which, during summer seasons, can have over 100,000 visitors daily  and up to 300,000 visitors over the weekend. Owing to this popularity, Ada Ciganlija has been commonly nicknamed "More Beograda" ("Belgrade's Sea"), which was officially accepted as an advertising slogan in 2008, stylised as "More BeogrADA".
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP]
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP] List of people from Serbia  List of people from Serbia is a list of notable people from Serbia. The list contains names of people who are associated with Serbia and its territory by their place of birth, and also by naturalization, domicile, citizenship or some other similar connection, modern or historical. List is territorially defined, and includes all people from Serbia, regardless of their ethnic, linguistic, religious or some other personal distinctions.     "See: List of Serbian Revolutionaries"       "For Serbian American military personnel, see" this list    For Serbian-American American football players, see this list; for baseball players, see this list.
What sport does Sava Paunović play? [SEP] FK BASK  FK BASK (Serbian Cyrillic: ФК БАСК) is a football club from Savski Venac, Belgrade, Serbia. It is one of the oldest clubs in Serbia. The club currently competes in the Serbian League Belgrade (3rd tier). BASK are the initials of "Beogradski akademski sportski klub".
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP]  The National Soccer League was a proposed professional indoor soccer league with oft-delayed start dates from June 2004 to Summer 2008. The league played two "NSL Select" games in Laredo, Texas (2005) and Cleveland (2006) to test interest. The National Soccer League spent many years in development. On March 27, 2003, its website touted 20 regular-season games from June to September 2004. By May 23, 2003, the time frame had shifted to June–September 2005, and by January 30, 2004, the league was planning to play 20 regular-season games from June to September 2006. The league also explored the possibility of having a separate Canadian league that would have played in the
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP]  The 2009–10 Major Indoor Soccer League was the sophomore season for the league, and first under the revived MISL banner. It marked the 32nd season of professional Division 1 indoor soccer. The members of the MISL's second season teams were the Baltimore Blast, the Milwaukee Wave, the Monterrey La Raza, the Philadelphia KiXX, and the Rockford Rampage. The season kicked off on November 13, 2009, with the NISL champion, Baltimore Blast, welcoming the Rockford Rampage. The regular season concluded on March 21, 2010, with the Rockford Rampage hosting Monterrey La Raza. This year also marks the first season since the KiXX founding that they will play at a new arena, the Liacouras Center,
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP]  The 2008-09 Professional Arena Soccer League (PASL-Pro) is the inaugural season for the league. The PASL-Pro is the largest indoor soccer league, hosting 21 teams spreading from Canada, the United States of America, and the Mexico. All US soccer clubs were invited to play in the United States Open Cup for Arena Soccer which 25 PASL-Pro and PASL-Premier teams, respectively, played in, as well as future PASL-Pro team, the San Diego Sockers. The league kicked off at the Stockton Arena with the Stockton Cougars defeating the Colorado Lightning 10-5. The regular season concluded March 8, 2009 with three separate matches. On March 15, 2009 the Stockton Cougars won the inaugural championship 13-5 over 1790 Cincinnati. Stockton's goalkeeper, Jesus Molina, was named the playoffs MVP
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP]  The 2008 National Premier Soccer League season was the 6th season of the NPSL. The season started in May, 2008, and ended with the NPSL Championship Game on August 3, 2008. Pennsylvania Stoners finished the season as national champions, beating St. Paul Twin Stars in the NPSL Championship game in Uniondale, New York on 3 August 2008. Pennsylvania Stoners forward Tom Ehrlich was named the National Premier Soccer League's Player of the Year. Tom Ehrlich was also the league's top scorer, with 11 goals.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP]  The format for the playoffs is the same as the 2008–09 NISL format. The first place team in the season will get a bye into the finals, while the second and third place teams play a two-game, home-and-home, series, with a third golden goal game taking place at the second place team's home if needed.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP] 2007–08 Tulsa Revolution season  The 2007–08 Tulsa Revolution season was the first season of the Tulsa Revolution professional indoor soccer club. The Revolution, a short-season expansion team in the final year of the American Indoor Soccer League, played their home games at SoccerCity Tulsa in Tulsa, Oklahoma.<ref name="urb080123"/> They amassed only a 2–5 record but drew well at the box office, falling dormant only after the league folded in late 2008.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP] Major Arena Soccer League  The Major Arena Soccer League (MASL) is a North American professional indoor soccer league. The MASL features teams playing coast-to-coast in the United States and Mexico.  MASL is the highest level of arena soccer in North America. MASL players generally earn salaries ranging from $15,000–45,000 per season, but former USMNT and MLS star Landon Donovan earned as much as $250,000 to play one year in 2019.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP] Rockford Rampage  The Rockford Rampage was an American indoor soccer team based in Rockford, Illinois, United States. Founded in 2005 as the Rockford Thunder, the team originally played in the American Indoor Soccer League until 2008 then moved to the Major Indoor Soccer League from 2008 to 2010. They were revived to play in the Professional Arena Soccer League for the 2012–13 season but folded after the season ended.  The team played its home games at Victory Sports Complex. The team colors were black and green. Their head coach was Jeff Kraft, assisted by Armando Sanchez.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP] American Indoor Soccer League  The American Indoor Soccer League was a semi-professional indoor soccer league founded in 2002 and folded in 2008.
What sport does 2008–09 National Indoor Soccer League season play? [SEP] Philadelphia KiXX  The Philadelphia KiXX was a professional indoor soccer team based in Philadelphia, USA. The team competed as an NPSL expansion franchise and then played in the Major Indoor Soccer League.
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP] }
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP]  Teams played each other four times in the league. In the first half of the season each team played every other team twice (home and away), and then did the same in the second half of the season.
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP]  The Austrian Football Bundesliga of 1994–95 was organised by the Austrian Football Association (ÖFB). The Austrian First League served as a stepping stone for promotion to the 1. Bundesliga. The Regional Leagues acted as a third step on the footballing ladder, East (Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland), Central (Mitte) (Carinthia, Upper Austria, and Styria) and West (Salzburg, Tirol, and Vorarlberg).
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP]  Teams played each other four times in the league. In the first half of the season each team played every other team twice (home and away), and then did the same in the second half of the season.
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP]  The league's top scorers:
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP] 2. Bundesliga  The 2. Bundesliga ( ) is the second division of professional football in Germany. It was implemented 11 years after the founding of the Fußball-Bundesliga as the new second division for professional football. The 2. Bundesliga is ranked below the Bundesliga and above the 3. Liga in the German football league system. All of the 2. Bundesliga clubs qualify for the DFB-Pokal, the annual German Cup competition. A total of 127 clubs have competed in the 2. Bundesliga since its foundation.  The decision to establish the league as the second level of football in West Germany was made in May 1973. The league started operating in August 1974, then with two divisions of 20 clubs. It was reduced to a single division in 1981. From the 1991–92 season onwards clubs from former East Germany started participating in the league, briefly expanding it to two divisions again. It returned to a single division format again at the end of that season and has had 18 clubs as its strength since 1994. Two clubs from the 2. Bundesliga are directly promoted to the Bundesliga, while a third promoted club is determined through play-offs, from 1974 to 1991 and again since 2008. Between 1991 and 2008 the third-placed club in the league was directly promoted. The bottom clubs in the league are relegated to the third division; from 1974 to 1994 the Oberliga, from 1994 to 2008 the Regionalliga and since 2008 the 3. Liga. The number of relegated clubs has fluctuated over the years. Since 2008 two clubs are directly relegated while the third-last team has the opportunity to defend its league place in play-offs against the third placed team of the 3. Liga.  1. FC Nürnberg, SC Freiburg, 1. FC Köln, Arminia Bielefeld and VfL Bochum hold the record number of championships in the league with four each. Bielefeld also holds the record for number of promotions from the 2. Bundesliga to the Bundesliga, with eight.  For the 2018–19 season, an average of 19,128 spectators watched 2. Bundesliga matches, making the 2. Bundesliga the world's second most-watched secondary football league, after the EFL Championship in England.
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP] 1994–95 Austrian Football Bundesliga  The Austrian Football Bundesliga of 1994–95 was organised by the Austrian Football Association (ÖFB). The Austrian First League served as a stepping stone for promotion to the 1. Bundesliga. The Regional Leagues acted as a third step on the footballing ladder, East (Vienna, Lower Austria and Burgenland), Central (Mitte) (Carinthia, Upper Austria, and Styria) and West (Salzburg, Tirol, and Vorarlberg).
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP] FC Red Bull Salzburg  FC Red Bull Salzburg is an Austrian professional football club based in Wals-Siezenheim, that competes in the Austrian Bundesliga, the top flight of Austrian Football. Their home ground is the Red Bull Arena. Due to sponsorship restrictions, the club is known as FC Salzburg and wears a modified crest when playing in UEFA competitions.  The club was known as SV Austria Salzburg, and had several sponsored names, before being bought by Red Bull GmbH in 2005 who renamed the club and changed its colours from its traditional violet and white to red and white. The change resulted in some of the team's fans forming a new club, SV Austria Salzburg.  Founded in 1933, the club won its first Bundesliga title in 1994, which was the first of three in the span of four seasons which also saw them reach the 1994 UEFA Cup final. The club has won sixteen league titles and nine Austrian Cups, all nine of which came as doubles, as well as three Austrian Supercups.
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP]
What sport does 1994–95 Fußball-Bundesliga play? [SEP] VfB Stuttgart  Verein für Bewegungsspiele Stuttgart 1893 e. V., commonly known as VfB Stuttgart (), is a German sports club based in Stuttgart, Baden-Württemberg. The club's football team is currently part of Germany's first division, the Bundesliga. VfB Stuttgart has won the national championship five times, most recently in 2006–07, the DFB-Pokal three times and the UEFA Intertoto Cup a record three times.  The football team plays its home games at the Mercedes-Benz Arena, in the Neckarpark which is located near the Cannstatter Wasen, where the city's fall beer festival takes place. Second team side VfB Stuttgart II currently plays in the Regionalliga Südwest, which is the second highest division allowed for a reserve team. The club's junior teams have won the national U19 championships a record ten times and the Under 17 Bundesliga six times.  A membership-based club with over 72,000 members, VfB is the largest sports club in Baden-Württemberg and the eighth-largest football club in Germany. It has departments for fistball, field hockey, track and field, table tennis, and football referees, all of which compete only at the amateur level. The club also maintains a social department, the "VfB-Garde".
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]  gold medals in the Central American Games in 1985, 1989, and 1993, also gold in the Central America Mexico and Caribbean games of 1986 and 1990. After his move to Europe he continued playing waterpolo in Ireland, playing with the team Clonard in the first division of the Irish Waterpolo League. Lopez-Barillas suffered a serious accident while snowboarding in 2002, fracturing his left arm and requiring reconstructive surgery to his left wrist and hand, to date he is still active in skateboarding, snowboarding, surfing and kite surfing. He is still active playing Squash at competition level in London, UK.
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]  Juan López Hita (5 September 1944 – 11 June 2014) was a Spanish professional footballer who played most of his career in Sevilla FC. He also appeared in three matches of the national team.
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]  Game in Milwaukee. López played three different infield positions (second base, shortstop and third base) in 132 games with the Double-A San Antonio Missions in 2003. He was third in the Texas League with 35 doubles. He had 41 multi-hit games, including four 4-hit games. At the all-star break he was selected to start for the Texas League. At the end of the season he was named to Texas League Postseason All-Star Team. López hit .391 with 3 runs, 2 home runs, a steal and 5 RBIs in five postseason games. He again played with Lara in the Venezuelan Winter League. He hit .295 with
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]  Juan Lopez (born November 6, 1952) is a Puerto Rican former professional baseball infielder and coach. As a player, he was listed at 5 ft and 170 lb; he throws and bats right-handed. He was on the coaching staff of the New York Mets of Major League Baseball (MLB) during the 2002 and 2003 seasons.
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]  Juan Martín López (born 27 May 1985) is an Argentine field hockey player for Banco Provincia. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the national team in the men's tournament. Juan Martín has won the bronze medal at the 2014 Men's Hockey World Cup and three gold medals at the Pan American Games. The midfielder was also part of the Argentinian squad which won the gold medal at the 2016 Summer Olympics. He plays club hockey for Banco Provincia.
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP] Roberto Clemente  Roberto Enrique Clemente Walker (; August 18, 1934 – December 31, 1972) was a Puerto Rican professional baseball right fielder who played 18 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Pittsburgh Pirates. After his early death, he was posthumously inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 1973, becoming both the first Caribbean and the first Latin-American player to be enshrined. Because he died at a young age and had such a historic career, the Hall of Fame changed its rules of eligibility. As an alternative to a player having to be retired for five years before eligibility, a player who has been deceased for at least six months is eligible for entry.  Clemente was an All-Star for 13 seasons, selected to 15 All-Star Games. He was the National League (NL) Most Valuable Player (MVP) in 1966, the NL batting leader in 1961, 1964, 1965, and 1967, and a Gold Glove Award winner for 12 consecutive seasons from 1961 through 1972. His batting average was over .300 for 13 seasons and he had 3,000 hits during his major league career. He also was a two-time World Series champion. Clemente was the first player from the Caribbean and Latin America to win a World Series as a starting position player (1960), to receive an NL MVP Award (1966), and to receive a World Series MVP Award (1971).  Clemente was involved in charity work in Latin American and Caribbean countries during the off-seasons. He often delivered baseball equipment and food to those in need. In 1972, he died in a plane crash at the age of 38 while en route to deliver aid to victims of the Nicaragua earthquake. The following season, the Pirates retired his uniform number 21, and MLB renamed its annual Commissioner's Award in his honor. Now known as the Roberto Clemente Award, it is given to the player who "best exemplifies the game of baseball, sportsmanship, community involvement and the individual's contribution to his team."
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP]
What sport does Juan López Hita play? [SEP] Miami Sound Machine  Miami Sound Machine was an American band of Latin-influenced music that had featured the vocals of Cuban-born recording artist Gloria Estefan (née Fajardo). Established in 1975 by Emilio Estefan Jr., the band was originally known as the Miami Latin Boys before becoming the Miami Sound Machine in 1977.  The band had a number of albums and a string of hit singles until 1989. The band's 1985 album "Primitive Love" credited the band whereas their follow-up album "Let It Loose" in 1987 placed Gloria Estefan at the forefront. From 1988 to 1989, the latter album was also repackaged as "Anything For You" with new cover art with the international release in Europe, South Africa, Australia and New Zealand. In 1989, the group's name ceased being included on the CD or album products—as Estefan continued as a solo artist.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP]  Altschwager played for both Contax and the Australian Institute of Sport in the South Australia state league. In 1999 she made her senior debut for Contax. In 2000 she was a member of the AIS team that finished as runners up to Contax in the grand final. She was also selected in the league's Team of the Year. In 2011 she returned to the South Australia state league to play for Newton Jaguars.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP]  Olivia 'Livy' Paige (born 28 July 1996) is an English international field hockey player who played as a midfielder for England and Great Britain. She plays club hockey in the Women's England Hockey League Premier Division for Hampstead & Westminster. Paige has also played for hdm, Uni of Birmingham, Reading and Marlow.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] Livia Altmann, Swiss National Team, Sochi Olympics, Bronze Medal (2014) ; Livia Altmann, Swiss National Team, Pyeongchang Olympics (2018) ; Livia Altmann, Switzerland National Team – Nation Cup (2017–2018) ; Shae Labbe, Canadian National Women's Development Team (2016); 2014–15 Canada Under-18 Team ; Brittany Phillips, IIHF World U18 Championships, Canada, Silver (2009) ; Kaila Pinkney, IIHF World U18 Championships, Canada, Gold ; Lauren Wildfang, IIHF World U18 Championships, Canada, Gold (2014) ; Breanne Wilson-Bennett, IIHF World U18 Championships, Canada, Gold (2014) ; Tara French, Canadian Under 22 Team (2005) ; Becky Irvine, Canadian Under-22 Team (2005) ; Sam Hunt, Canadian Under-22 Team (2006) ; Sam Hunt, Canadian Under-22 Team (2005) ; Malia Schneider, 2014–2015 Canada Under-18 Team ; Rebecca Lahaer, 2004 USA Under-22 Team ; Maura Crowell ('02), Head Coach for the USA Under 18 Team (2017-18 & 2018-19)
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP]  As a child Skjelbreid spent a lot of her time with her older sisters, and consequently took part in the sports her sisters did. She played football, kayaked in the lake next to the family home, cross-country skied, and she used to run up to the family cottage up in the mountains, touch the wall and run back down. Skjelbreid excelled in football and biathlon, and first started competing in biathlon when she was nine. She borrowed her father's rifle for her first race. He also built a small shooting range on the family’s farm so his young daughters could practice. However, as she was
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP]  Livia De Clercq (born 3 June 1982) is a Belgian Paralympic athlete who competes in long jump and occasionally sprinting events at international level events. De Clercq had her left leg amputated above the knee after she was diagnosed with a tumour in left knee aged fourteen. She had her kneecap removed but her body rejected the prosthesis which led to amputation.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] Livia Altmann  Livia Altmann (born 13 December 1994) is a Swiss ice hockey player for Colgate Raiders and the Switzerland women's national ice hockey team.  She has represented Switzerland at the Winter Olympics in 2014 and won the bronze medal after defeating Sweden in the bronze medal playoff.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] Colgate Raiders women's ice hockey  The Colgate Raiders women's ice hockey team is an NCAA Division I ice hockey team that represents Colgate University and play in ECAC Hockey. The Raiders play their home games at Class of 1965 Arena. The Raiders have played in Division I hockey since the 2001–02 season after playing at the NCAA Division III from 1997 to 2001.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] 2018–19 Colgate Raiders women's ice hockey season
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] Women's League (Switzerland)  The Women's League, also known as the PostFinance Women's League for sponsorship reasons, is the top ice hockey league in the Swiss Women's Hockey League (SWHL) system. The league was founded in 1986 as the , abbreviated LKA, and was also officially known as the in French and the in Italian, both abbreviated as LNA. During 2014 to 2019, the league was called the Swiss Women's Hockey League A, abbreviated SWHL A; the abbreviation continues to be used by the league following the 2019 name change. An amateur league, it is organized by the , an organ of the Swiss Ice Hockey Federation.
What sport does Livia Altmann play? [SEP] Switzerland at the Olympics  Switzerland has sent athletes to compete in every Games since it first participated at the Olympic Games at the inaugural 1896 Games. Switzerland boycotted the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, but the equestrian events for those Games were held in Stockholm, Sweden earlier that year, where the Swiss dressage team won a bronze medal.  The National Olympic Committee for Switzerland was created and recognized in 1912.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP]  Granada Lions is an American football team based in Granada, Andalusia, Spain.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP]  The team was established February 2, 2001 as Granada Universitarios. The name was later changed to the actual Lions, after one of the better known symbols from the Alhambra, the Court of the Lions, in order to represent the whole city of Granada. After playing in regional leagues, they joined the national league LNFA 2 in 2004. Finally, in 2006, the team was promoted to the top league in Spain, the LNFA, where they keep competing.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP] 🇺🇸 Brian Wilbur, Quarterback
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP]  Wilbur began playing football in Granada while studying abroad in 2007. After graduation from college, he returned in 2010 for a second season and was named the 2010 Andalucian league MVP. Wilbur was recruited by the Montpellier Hurricanes of France to serve as quarterback and offensive coordinator for the 2013 season. In 2014, he was again called up by the Granada Lions to serve as quarterback after the Lions qualified for the Serie A of Spain's national football league.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP] 🇪🇸 Alvaro Carvajal, Quarterback
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP] Court of the Lions  The Court of the Lions (; ) or Palace of the Lions () is a palace in the heart of the Alhambra, a historic citadel formed by a complex of palaces, gardens and forts in Granada, Spain. It was commissioned by the Nasrid sultan Muhammed V of the Emirate of Granada in Al-Andalus. Its construction started in the second period of his reign, between 1362 and 1391 AD. Along with the Alhambra, the palace is part of a UNESCO World Heritage Site. It was minted in Spain's 2011 limited edition of €2 Commemorative Coins.  The Palace of the Lions is one of the most famous palaces in Islamic architecture and exemplifies the apogee of Nasrid architecture in Al-Andalus. The architecture of the palace presented a significant shift in the design of Nasrid palaces and introduced new trends in ornamentation. The building consists of a rectangular courtyard centered on a marble fountain with twelve sculpted lions. Four main halls surround the courtyard, along with some upper-floor rooms. Water channels connect the central fountain with smaller fountains in the four halls. The halls feature some of the most elaborate and sophisticated "muqarnas" vaults in the Islamic world.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP] Athletic Bilbao  Athletic Club (; ), commonly known as Athletic Bilbao or just Athletic, is a professional football club based in the city of Bilbao in the Basque Country of Spain. They are known as "Los Leones" (The Lions) because their stadium was built near a church called "San Mamés", which was named after Saint Mammes, an early Christian thrown to the lions by the Romans. Mammes pacified the lions and was later made a saint. The team plays its home matches at the San Mamés Stadium. Its home colours are red and white-striped shirts with black shorts.  Athletic are the fourth most successful club in "La Liga" with eight titles to their name. In the table of "Copa del Rey" titles, Athletic is second only to Barcelona, having won it 23 times. It is also the most successful Basque football club in both league and cup titles won. The club also has one of the most successful women's teams in Spain, which has won five championships in the "Primera División Femenina".  The club is one of three founding members of the "Primera División" that have never been relegated from the top division since its inception in 1929, the others being Real Madrid and Barcelona. These three clubs, along with Osasuna, are the only four professional clubs in Spain that are not sports corporations; instead they are owned and operated by club members. Athletic's main rivals are Real Sociedad, against whom it contests the Basque derby, and Real Madrid, due to sporting and political identity; a minor rivalry also exists with Barcelona due to historical significance. At various points in the club's history, further Basque league derbies have been contested against Alavés, Eibar and Osasuna.  The club is known for its "cantera" policy of bringing young Basque players through the ranks, as well as recruiting players from other Basque clubs. Athletic's official policy is to sign players native to or trained in football in the greater Basque Country, which includes Biscay, Gipuzkoa, Álava and Navarre (in Spain), as well as Labourd, Soule and Lower Navarre (in France). Since 1912, Athletic has played exclusively with players meeting its own criteria to be deemed Basque. This can be seen as a unique case in European football; it has gained Athletic both admirers and critics. The club has been praised for promoting home grown players and club loyalty. The rule does not apply to coaching staff, with several examples of non-Basques both from Spain and abroad having coached the first team.  Despite the implications of the name 'Athletic Club' in English, and unlike some of the other major Spanish teams which have several departments, it is not a multi-sport club, participating only in football, although sections for cycling and other sports existed prior to the Spanish Civil War in the 1930s.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP]
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP] Granada  Granada (, ) is the capital city of the province of Granada, in the autonomous community of Andalusia, Spain. Granada is located at the foot of the Sierra Nevada mountains, at the confluence of four rivers, the Darro, the Genil, the Monachil and the Beiro. Ascribed to the Vega de Granada "comarca", the city sits at an average elevation of above sea level, yet is only one hour by car from the Mediterranean coast, the Costa Tropical. Nearby is the Sierra Nevada Ski Station, where the FIS Alpine World Ski Championships 1996 were held.  In the 2021 national census, the population of the city of Granada proper was 227,383, and the population of the entire municipal area was estimated to be 231,775, ranking as the 20th-largest urban area of Spain. About 3.3% of the population did not hold Spanish citizenship, the largest number of these people (31%; or 1% of the total population) coming from South America. Its nearest airport is Federico García Lorca Granada-Jaén Airport.  The area was settled since ancient times by Iberians, Romans, and Visigoths. The current settlement became a major city of Al-Andalus in the 11th century during the Zirid Taifa of Granada. In the 13th century it became the capital of the Emirate of Granada under Nasrid rule, the last Muslim-ruled state in the Iberian Peninsula. Granada was conquered in 1492 by the Catholic Monarchs and progressively transformed into a Christian city over the course of the 16th century.  The Alhambra, a medieval Nasrid citadel and palace, is located in Granada. It is one of the most famous monuments of Islamic architecture and one of the most visited tourist sites in Spain. Islamic-period influence and Moorish architecture are also preserved in the Albaicín neighborhood and other medieval monuments in the city. The University of Granada has an estimated 47,000 undergraduate students spread over five different campuses in the city. The pomegranate (in Spanish, "granada") is the heraldic device of Granada.
What sport does Granada Lions play? [SEP]
What sport does Francis play? [SEP]  Francis played three years of college soccer at Lindsey Wilson College between 2007 and 2009 entering as a Sophomore. As a Sophomore he appeared in 21 matches and scored his first collegiate goal on 29 October against Campbellsville University. His only goal of the season. As a Junior he appeared in 18 matches and scored three goals. Prior to his Senior season Francis was named a team captain and appeared in 22 matches once again scoring three goals. Lindsey Wilson and Francis went on to win the 2009 NAIA Men's Soccer Championship with Francis being named to the All-Mid South first team. During his college years Francis also played with both the Indiana Invaders and the Thunder Bay Chill in the USL Premier Development League. In 2008 he made two appearances with the Indiana Invaders going goalless. In 2009 he made twelve appearances with the Thunder Bay Chill while scoring three goals as Thunder Bay finished second in the Heartland division.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP]  Carlos Francis (born January 3, 1981 in Fort Worth, Texas) is an American football player who played wide receiver for the Oakland Raiders. At Texas Tech, he started in 38 of 49 contests he played in and hauled in 216 passes for 3,031 yards (14.0 avg) and 21 touchdowns. He was drafted in the 2004 NFL Draft by the Raiders. Francis was released in 2007. Francis attended Southwest High School in Fort Worth, Texas and was a letterman in football and track. Francis now coaches football, track, and basketball at The Oakridge School in Arlington, Texas.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP]  Francis was born in Ghana and was a part of the academy at Right to Dream and joined FC Nordsjælland in the summer 2019. Before his move to Nordsjælland in the summer 2019, Francis had already played a reserve team game for the club in July 2017 and three games for the U19's in the Torneo di Viareggio in March 2019. While playing at Right to Dream, Francis among other things was named as the best player at a J-League Youth tournament in Japan, scoring two goals in the final and helping his team lift the title. He got his FC Nordsjælland debut on 14 July 2019 in the first league game of the 2019/20 season. Francis was in the starting line up in a 3–0 victory against AC Horsens in the Danish Superliga and played 74 minutes. On 25 July 2019 Nordsjælland announced, that they had extended Francis' contract until June 2023.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP]  Francino Rousseu Francis (born 18 January 1987) is a Jamaican footballer who is currently player-manager for West Midlands (Regional) League Premier Division side Wolverhampton Sporting, his position is defender.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP]  Francis was a standout at Glen Oaks High School in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. He averaged 22 points and five assists per game in his senior year and led his team to a perfect 36-0 record and the Class 4A state title in 2005. Francis also won the MVP award for the state championship game and was named the 2005 Louisiana Class 4A Outstanding Player.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP] The Greatest Game Ever Played  The Greatest Game Ever Played is a 2005 American biographical sports film based on the early life of amateur golf champion Francis Ouimet and his surprise winning of the 1913 U.S. Open. The film was directed by Bill Paxton, and was his last film as a director. Shia LaBeouf plays the role of Ouimet. The film's screenplay was adapted by Mark Frost from his 2002 book, "The Greatest Game Ever Played: Harry Vardon, Francis Ouimet, and the Birth of Modern Golf". It was shot in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, with the Kanawaki Golf Club, in Kahnawake, Quebec, the site of the golf sequences.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP] Trevor Francis  Trevor John Francis (born 19 April 1954) is an English former footballer who played as a forward for a number of clubs in England, the United States, Italy, Scotland and Australia. In 1979 he became Britain's first £1 million player following his transfer from Birmingham City to Nottingham Forest. He scored the winning goal for Forest in the 1979 European Cup final against Malmö. He won the European Cup again with the club the following year.<ref name="European Cup" /> At international level, he played for England 52 times between 1976 and 1986, scoring 12 goals, and played at the 1982 FIFA World Cup.  Between 1988 and 2003 he was a football manager, most notably with Sheffield Wednesday and Birmingham City. His final managerial post was at Crystal Palace, whom he left in 2003.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP] Francis Ngannou  Francis Zavier Ngannou (born 5 September 1986) is a Cameroonian professional mixed martial artist. He currently competes in the Heavyweight division in the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), where he is the current UFC Heavyweight Champion. As of November 14, 2022, he is #5 in the UFC men's pound-for-pound rankings.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP] St. Francis Brooklyn Terriers  The St. Francis Brooklyn Terriers are the 21 teams that represent St. Francis College in athletics. The Terriers are members of NCAA Division I and participate in the Northeast Conference (NEC) except in two sports that the NEC does not sponsor—men's and women's water polo. The water polo teams respectively compete in the Collegiate Water Polo Association and the Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference.  The school's mascot is Rocky the Terrier, he was officially introduced in 1933 by the college's athletic association. Previously the St. Francis's student-athletes were referred to as the Boys from Brooklyn. Notably, the St. Francis Brooklyn men's basketball program was founded in 1896 and is the oldest collegiate program in New York City. The basketball, volleyball, water polo, and swimming and diving teams for the Terriers compete in the Generoso Pope Athletic Complex. The soccer teams complete at Brooklyn Bridge Park, Pier 5.
What sport does Francis play? [SEP] Francis Ouimet  Francis DeSales Ouimet () (May 8, 1893 – September 2, 1967) was an American amateur golfer who is frequently referred to as the "father of amateur golf" in the United States. He won the U.S. Open in 1913 and was the first non-Briton elected Captain of the Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St Andrews. He was inducted into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1974.
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]  He played for San José and Real Potosi. He was sued by former club San José in June 2016 due to an alleged breach of contract.
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP] José Luis Abajo
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]  José Luis Contaja Vicente (born 2 June 1987 in Oruro) is a Bolivian football defender.
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]  Morote started competing in athletics when he was 16 years old. Prior to taking up the sport, he was involved with football but switched to athletics after a teacher suggested his speed with the ball was better suited for athletics. He has competed in international competitions in Tunisia, Hungary, Sweden, Australia, France, Prague, Brazil and China. Locally, he participated in a number of workshops where he was coached by Camilo and Maxi. He is a member of Club Paralímpico de la Región athletic club in Castilla-La Mancha, where he is the only male participant. He has been funded by the 'Castilla-La Mancha Olímpica' program run by the Foundation for Culture and Sports of Castilla-La Mancha. When
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]  Víctor Manuel Sojo Jiménez (born November 24, 1983 in Puente Genil, Córdoba) is a field hockey striker from Spain. He finished in fourth position with the Men's National Team at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece, and won the silver medal four years later in Beijing.
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP]
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP] the racquet sport padel. Juan José Valencia Juan José 'Juanjo' Valencia de la Serna (born 18 September 1971) is a Spanish retired footballer who played as a goalkeeper. He played 191 La Liga games over the course of nine seasons, in representation of Athletic Bilbao, Sevilla and Racing de Santander. Born in San Sebastián, Basque Country, Valencia joined Athletic Bilbao for his last year as a junior, being signed from neighbouring Antiguoko. He was loaned to Segunda División B club Barakaldo CF to start his senior career, but was quickly recalled to play for Athletic's reserves, helping them retain their
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP] that played at the 1984 Olympic Games held in Los Angeles. Galagarza is a son of Carlos Luis Víquez Jiménez and Elizabeth Galagarza Calderón. He is divorced and has 3 children. Luis Galagarza Luis Enrique Víquez Galagarza (born 15 August 1963) is a retired Costa Rican footballer. Born in Puntarenas, Galagarza made his professional debut for local side Puntarenas in the Primera Division de Costa Rica on 25 October 1981 against Limonense and won the league title during the 1986–1987 season. The burly midfielder also played for San Carlos and Guanacasteca. He retired after a game on 28 September 1997
What sport does José Luis Contaja play? [SEP] more important role, he helped the Olympic team to a fourth-place finish at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta. That team also included four other Sporting graduates – Luís Andrade, Dani, Emílio Peixe and Hugo Porfírio. José Dominguez José Manuel Martins Dominguez (born 16 February 1974) is a Portuguese retired footballer who played as a winger, and is a coach. A diminutive player with above-average technical skills and speed, he started playing professional football not in his own country but in England with Birmingham City. After two years with Sporting, he returned to England for three years with Tottenham Hotspur,
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]  Luis Eduardo Maldonado (born March 26, 1985 in Montevideo) is a Uruguayan footballer currently playing for Rampla Juniors.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]  Luis Alexis Maldonado (born 2 September 1997) is an Argentine professional footballer who plays as a defender for Banfield.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]  Alejandro Alberto Maldonado (born 7 March 1977) is an Argentine Paralympic athlete who competes in both middle-distance and long-distance wheelchair racing at international elite events. He is a seven-time Parapan American Games medalist and has competed at the 2004 and 2008 Summer Paralympics.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]  Luis Alberto Maldonado Morocho (born 15 May 1996) is an Ecuadorian footballer who plays for Italian club Catania.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]  Víctor Maldonado Flores (born August 3, 1939 in Lagunillas, Zulia) is a retired track and field athlete from Venezuela. He competed in the hurdling events. Maldonado represented his native country at three consecutive Summer Olympics, starting in 1960. He was second in the 1963 Pan American Games 4 × 400 metres relay (with Hortensio Fucil, Arístides Pineda and Leslie Mentor). In the 1959 Pan American Games, Maldonado finished sixth in the 400 metres hurdles and in the 1963 Pan American Games 400 metres hurdles he finished fourth.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP] Luis Maldonado (footballer, born 1985)  Luis Eduardo Maldonado (born March 26, 1985 in Montevideo) is a Uruguayan footballer currently playing for Rampla Juniors.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP] 2021 World Series  The 2021 World Series was the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2021 season. The 117th World Series was a best-of-seven playoff between the National League (NL) champion Atlanta Braves and the American League (AL) champion Houston Astros. The series began on October 26 and concluded on November 2.   The Braves won the series four games to two. It was their fourth World Series title in franchise history, their first since 1995, and their second since the franchise's relocation to Atlanta in 1966.  The Braves advanced to the World Series after winning the NL East division title. Atlanta then defeated the Milwaukee Brewers in the NL Division Series and the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NL Championship Series. The Astros advanced to the World Series after winning the AL West. Houston then defeated the Chicago White Sox in the AL Division Series and the Boston Red Sox in the AL Championship Series.   The Astros had home-field advantage due to their superior regular-season record over that of the Braves. The series was played in a 2–3–2 format, with the Astros hosting Games 1, 2, and 6 (and 7 if it was necessary); and the Braves hosting Games 3, 4, and 5. The teams split the first two games, which were played at Minute Maid Park in Houston, and the Braves won Games 3 and 4 at Truist Park in Atlanta to take a 3-1 lead. The Astros won Game 5, returning the series to Houston. The Braves won Game 6 to win the World Series. Jorge Soler was awarded the World Series Most Valuable Player Award after batting .300 in the series with home runs in three of the Braves victories, each time giving them a lead they would never surrender.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP] List of Puerto Ricans  This is a list of notable people from Puerto Rico which includes people who were born in Puerto Rico (Borinquen) and people who are of full or partial Puerto Rican descent. The government of Puerto Rico has been issuing "Certificates of Puerto Rican Citizenship" to anyone born in Puerto Rico or to anyone born outside of Puerto Rico with at least one parent who was born in Puerto Rico since 2007. Also included in the list are some long-term continental American and other residents or immigrants of other ethnic heritages who have made Puerto Rico their home and consider themselves to be Puerto Ricans.  The list is divided into categories and, in some cases, sub-categories, which best describe the field for which the subject is most noted. Some categories such as "Actors, actresses, comedians and directors" are relative since a subject who is a comedian may also be an actor or director. In some cases a subject may be notable in more than one field, such as Luis A. Ferré, who is notable both as a former governor and as an industrialist. However, the custom is to place the subject's name under the category for which the subject is most noted.
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP] 2022 World Series  The 2022 World Series was the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 2022 season. The 118th edition of the World Series, it was a best-of-seven playoff between the American League (AL) champion Houston Astros and the National League (NL) champion Philadelphia Phillies. The Astros defeated the Phillies in six games to earn their second championship. The series was broadcast in the United States on Fox television and ESPN Radio.   The Houston Astros entered the 2022 MLB postseason as the AL West champions and the top-seeded AL team, while the Phillies won a wild card, earning the sixth and final NL playoff berth. The Phillies took a 2–1 lead after three games, before the Astros won the final three games to win the series. Jeremy Peña won the World Series Most Valuable Player Award, becoming the first position player to win the award as a rookie.  The series was notable for having the first World Series no-hitter since Don Larsen's perfect game in the 1956 World Series, when Astros pitchers Cristian Javier, Bryan Abreu, Rafael Montero and Ryan Pressly achieved a combined no-hitter in Game 4. It was also the third postseason no-hitter in MLB history, after Roy Halladay's no-hitter (also pitched in Citizens Bank Park) in Game 1 of the 2010 National League Division Series.  MLB has sold sponsorships to various postseason series since 2017, with YouTube TV serving as the official presenting sponsor of the World Series from 2017 through 2019. The World Series did not have a presenting sponsor in 2020 or 2021, but resumed sponsorship in 2022. As a result of a new multi-year agreement with Capital One, this World Series was officially known as the "2022 World Series presented by Capital One".
What sport does Luis Eduardo Maldonado play? [SEP]
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]  Afyonkarahisarspor was a sports club located in Afyonkarahisar, Turkey. The football club played in the Regional Amateur League.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]  Afyon Belediye S.K., commonly known as Afyon Belediye or simply Afyon, for sponsorship reasons HDI Sigorta Afyon Belediye, is a Turkish professional basketball club based in Afyonkarahisar, Turkey. The club currently plays in the Basketbol Süper Ligi (BSL). Their home arena is Prof. Dr. Veysel Eroğlu Sports Hall with a capacity of 2,833 seats. Formerly known as Afyonkarahisar Belediyespor, the team was founded and sponsored by Afyonkarahisar Municipality in 2013. Their second season of Turkish Basketball League they finished eighth and competed in the play-offs. In 2018, the club promoted to the first-tier Basketbol Süper Ligi (BSL) for the first time after winning the TBL promotion play-offs.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]  Afjet Afyonspor is a Turkish professional football club based in Afyonkarahisar, which currently competes in the TFF Second League, the third level of Turkish football.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]  Afyon Arena, officially known as Zafer Stadyumu, is a stadium in Afyonkarahisar, Turkey. It opened on 21 July 2015 and it has a capacity of 15,000 spectators. It was the new home of Afyonkarahisarspor of the Turkish Regional Amateur League. Currently it's the home of Afyonspor. It replaced the club's Afyon Atatürk Stadium.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]  Afyonkarahisar Motor Sports Center (Afyon Motor Sporları Merkezi) is a motor sports race track for motocross events in Afyonkarahisar, Turkey. Opened in 2016, the 1725 m-long track has a hard pack type of soil. The race track was opened after a short construction time in 2016. Owned by the Afyonkarahisar Municipality and operated by the Turkish Motorcycle Federation, it is located at Sadıkbey Mah. and Dörtyol Mah., Turgut Özal Cad., next to the Yeni Şehir Stadiumu in Afyonkarahisar. The Turkish Motocross Championships in 2016 and 2017. were held at the race track. The finals of the 2019 European Motorcycle Acrobatics Championships took place at the race track. It hosted the MXGP of Turkey on 2 September, the 2018 FIM Motocross World Championship, the MXGP of Turkey on 8 September, the17th leg of the 2019 FIM Motocross World Championship, the MXGP of Afyon on 9 September as the nineth leg of the 2021 FIM Motocross World Championship, and the WMXGP of Turkey on 4 September and the WMXGP of Afyon on 7 September in thethird leg of the 2021 FIM Women's Motocross World Championship, were held.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP] Afyonkarahisarspor  Afyonkarahisarspor was a sports club located in Afyonkarahisar, Turkey. The football club played in the Regional Amateur League.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP]
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP] Alper Potuk  Alper Potuk (born 8 April 1991) is a Turkish footballer who plays as a midfielder or winger for TFF First League club Çaykur Rizespor.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP] TFF Third League  TFF 3. Lig (Turkish Football Federation Third League) is the fourth level in the Turkish football league system. It was founded in 2001–02 season as a continuation of then third level division Turkish Third Football League.
What sport does Afyonkarahisarspor play? [SEP] Turkish Regional Amateur League  The Turkish Regional Amateur League () is the fifth tier of the Turkish football league system. The tier comprises a number (usually 11-13, varies by season) of groups across Turkey, each consisting of teams grouped according to the regions in which they are based. Every season, 9 teams are promoted to the TFF Third League while the bottom two teams of each group are relegated to the Super Amateur Leagues of their respective provinces.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP]  The women's K-4 500 metres sprint canoeing competition at the 2014 Asian Games in Hanam was held from 29 September at the Misari Canoe/Kayak Center.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP]  The women's K-1 500 metres sprint canoeing competition at the 2014 Asian Games in Hanam was held from 27 to 29 September at the Misari Canoe/Kayak Center.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP]  The women's K-1 200 metres sprint canoeing competition at the 2014 Asian Games in Hanam was held from 27 to 29 September at the Misari Canoe/Kayak Center.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP]  The women's K-2 500 metres sprint canoeing competition at the 2014 Asian Games in Hanam was held from 27 to 29 September at the Misari Canoe/Kayak Center.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP]  The women's sprint K-4 (kayak four) 500 metres competition at the 2018 Asian Games was held on 1 September 2018.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP] Canoeing at the 2018 Asian Games  The canoeing races at the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and Palembang were contested in three main disciplines: the slalom from 21 to 23 August, and the sprint from 29 August to 1 September. The slalom canoe competition was held at the Bendung Rentang in Majalengka Regency, West Java; whereas the sprint events were staged in Jakabaring Lake at the Jakabaring Sport City, Palembang. Additionally, the games also contested the canoe polo discipline as demonstration sport. Also in part of canoeing event was the dragon boat event.  During a preparation meeting, West Java provincial secretary stated that the quality of the water in Bendung Rentang was polluted by sand and soil mining waste ("galian C"). According to Indonesian Minister of Public Works and People's Housing Basuki Hadimuljono, the quantity of water in Bandung Rentang was enough, about 15 cubic meters per second, so the speed (water) had met the standard, and to improve the water quality, sand excavation activity around the venue would be stopped for a while.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP] Ning Menghua  Ning Menghua (; born November 8, 1973 in Jianjialong, Shaodong county) is a Chinese sprint canoeist who competed in the early to mid-1990s. She won a bronze medal in the K-4 500 m event at the 1991 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Paris.  Ning competed in two Olympic Games, she finished 5th at K-4 500 m, 7th at K-2 500 m in 1992 Barcelona Olympics; 8th at K-2 500 m in 1996 Atlanta Olympics. She also won the gold medalist at K-4 500 m in 1990 Beijing Asian Games. As a canoeing player, Ning competed in international games, including the World Championship, World Cup, invitational tournament and domestic competitions, she won 11 gold medalists, 9 silver medalists and 9 bronze medalists. Ning received many honors, He was awarded the Pace-setters of the New Long March of Hunan and National Woman Pace-setter in 1991. Currently Ning serves as a water sports coach in Wuhan Sports University.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP] China at the 2014 Asian Games  China participated in the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea from 19 September to 4 October 2014.           Eventing<ref name="Equestrian" />
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP] China at the 2018 Asian Games  The People's Republic of China competed at the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia, from 18 August to 2 September 2018. China won 289 medals (132 gold, 92 silver and 65 bronze), leading the medal count for the tenth time in Asian Games history.  With Hangzhou hosting the 2022 Asian Games, a Chinese segment was performed at the closing ceremony.
What sport does canoeing at the 2014 Asian Games – women's K-4 500 metres play? [SEP] Uzbekistan at the 2018 Asian Games  Uzbekistan participated in the 2018 Asian Games in Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia from 18 August to 2 September 2018. Uzbekistan made its debut at the Asian Games in 1994 Hiroshima, and the best achievement was in 2002 Busan, with the acquisition of 15 gold, 12 silver and 24 bronze medals. At the last edition in Incheon, the country wrapped up its campaign with 45 medals in all - nine gold, 14 silver and 22 bronze.
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP]  Born in Córdoba, Argentina, Bottiglieri was signed by Italian Serie D team Sporting Genzano in September 2008. In December 2008 he left for Valle d'Aosta and scored 2 goals. In August 2009, he was signed by fellow Serie D team Savona and won promotion to professional league as Group A champion.
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP]  Andrés Bottiglieri (born 20 December 1988) is an Italian Argentine footballer.
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP] Andrés Bottiglieri (born 1988), Argentine footballer ; Emilio Bottiglieri (born 1979), Canadian soccer player ; Matteo Bottiglieri (1684-1757), Italian sculptor and painter ; Rita Bottiglieri (born 1953), Italian pentathlete Bottiglieri is an Italian surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP] Serie D: 2010 (Savona)
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP]  Thomas Naglieri (born 14 September 1985) is an athlete from France. He competes in archery. Naglieri competed at the 2004 Summer Olympics in men's individual archery. He was defeated in the first round of elimination, placing 60th overall. Naglieri was also a member of the 10th-place French men's archery team at the 2004 Summer Olympics. On the 15th of August 2020, Naglieri declared his candidacy for President of the Fédération Française de Tir à l'Arc (FFTA).
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP]
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP]
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP] Oriundo  The term oriundo (; Italian plural "oriundi") is an Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese noun describing an immigrant in a country, whose ancestry is from that same country. It comes from the Latin verb "oriri" ("orior"), "be born", and is etymologically related to "Orient".  This term was used especially in Spain to refer to a series of athletes, born in Latin America, whose ancestors were Spanish emigrants. In Italian culture, an "oriundo" is someone who is living in a country other than the one of his origins (i.e. being of Italian descent and residing outside of Italy). Oriundi are usually foreigners to their country of origin in legal terms. Whether or not they maintain cultural and linguistic ties with their country of origin usually depends on their upbringing, family background and preservation of cultural values.
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP] Italian Argentines  Italian Argentines (; , or "tanos" in Rioplatense Spanish) are Italian-born people (born in Argentina or Italy) or non-Italian citizens of Italian descent residing in Argentina. Italian is the largest single ethnic origin of modern Argentines. In 2011, it was estimated that at least 25 million Argentines (62.5% of the country's population) have some degree of Italian ancestry.<ref name=LaMatanza/> Argentina has the second-largest community of Italians outside of Italy, after Brazil.   Italians began arriving in Argentina in large numbers from 1857 to 1940, totaling 44.9% of the entire postcolonial immigrant population, more than from any other country (including Spain, at 31.5%). In 1996, the population of Argentines of partial or full Italian descent numbered 15.8 million when Argentina's population was approximately 34.5 million, meaning they represented 45.5% of the population.<ref name=LaMatanza/>  Italian settlements in Argentina, along with Spanish settlements, formed the backbone of today's Argentine society. Argentine culture has significant connections with Italian culture in terms of language, customs, and traditions. Argentina is also a strongly Italophilic country as cuisine, fashion, and lifestyle have been sharply influenced by Italian immigration.
What sport does Andrés Bottiglieri play? [SEP] List of Italian Canadians  This is a list of notable Italian Canadians who have been established in Canada. This list takes into account the entire Canadian population, which consists of Canadian citizens (by birth and by naturalization), landed immigrants and non-permanent residents and their families living with them in Canada as per the census.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP]  Hermann Gadner was an Austrian cross-country skier who competed in the 1930s. He won a bronze medal in the 4 x 10 km at the 1933 FIS Nordic World Ski Championships in Innsbruck.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP]  the football team of the club RTV/Realschüler-Turnverein, a secondary school student gymnastics club. Geldner and both his brothers also played in this match, which the FCB won two goals to nil. Teammate Charles Volderauer, as businessman, had good connections and used them from the very beginning. As early as June 1894, Volderauer organised the journey to visit Strassburger FV. Geldner travelled with the team by train to Strasbourg and played their first match against a foreign team, which ended with a 0–8 defeat. Georges Geldner stayed with the team only this one season and during this time he played in both these games for Basel without scoring a goal.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP]  and Fulda-Maberzell. This ended his career at the international elite level, at the age of 46 years. In 2012 he began playing for Spårvägens BTK. On 11 February 2016, Waldner played his last game in the Swedish first league for Ängby/Spårvägen and officially announced his retirement as a player. When he retired, Waldner had been playing international elite level table tennis for more than thirty years, which is somewhat unusual in the table tennis world given that hand–eye coordination and quick reactions are essential. Some young Chinese players whom he has recently played against were trained by those he played against in the 1990s, who were in turn trained by others he
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP]  Walter Schoeller (12 May 1889 – 16 May 1979) was a Swiss athlete best known for his time with Grasshopper Club Zürich. His performance led Grasshopper to national titles in rowing (1912 and 1913), tennis (1918 and 1922), football (1921) and field hockey (1926 and 1927), and earning him the nickname "Mister GC". In 1934, Schoeller secured Hardturm Stadium for use by Grasshopper, and it remains their home ground today. After 42 years of service to the club, Schoeller was named Honorary President in 1976.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP]  Herman Nattkämper (4 October 1911 – 2 April 2005) was a German football player and was German champions in 1934 and 1935. Born in Gladbeck, he became a member of a local football club when he was 14. Being criticized due to a failed penalty, he left his club and joined the FC Schalke 04. After 76 games and 27 goals he stopped playing football. During World War II he came into Russian war captivity where he started playing football again. Additionally, Hermann Nattkämper was the last living member of the legendary ´Schalker Kreisel´, a special tactic in football, to which Ernst Kuzorra and Fritz Szepan belonged likewise.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP] Brett Gardner  Brett Michael Gardner (born August 24, 1983) is an American professional baseball outfielder who is a free agent. He has played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees.   Gardner was a walk-on for the College of Charleston's baseball team. Selected by the Yankees in the third round of the 2005 MLB draft, Gardner made his MLB debut with the Yankees in 2008 and was part of the Yankees' 2009 World Series championship team. Gardner led the American League in stolen bases in 2011 and in triples in 2013. He was named an All-Star in 2015 and won a Gold Glove Award in 2016. Gardner has also won three Fielding Bible Awards.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP] List of Companions of the Order of Australia  The Order of Australia is the only Australian order of chivalry. It was established on 14 February 1975 by Elizabeth II, Queen of Australia, to recognise Australian citizens and other persons for achievement, meritorious service, or for both. At that time, Companion of the Order of Australia was the highest of three grades of the Order (Companion, Officer, Member).  On 24 May 1976, the grade of Knight or Dame of the Order was established, displacing Companion as the highest grade. On 3 June 1986, the Knight/Dame grade was abolished, and Companion was once again the highest grade.  On 25 March 2014, the Knight/Dame grade was re-established, Companion once again being relegated to the second highest grade of the Order. The Knight/Dame grade was again abolished on 2 November 2015.
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP] Hermann Hreiðarsson Hermann Hreiðarsson (born 11 July 1974) is an Icelandic former footballer and current Interim Coach for Kerala Blasters in the Indian Super League. He played as a defender and spent 15 seasons in England, gaining a total of 315 appearances in the Premier League. Hermann was relegated from the Premier League five times, a record he holds jointly with Nathan Blake. He was relegated with every Premier League club he has played for: Crystal Palace (1997–98 season), Wimbledon (1999–2000), Ipswich Town (2001–02), Charlton Athletic (2006–07), and Portsmouth (2009–10). In 1993, Hermann started playing for his local club ÍBV,
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP] Bill Gairdner William Douglas "Bill" Gairdner (born October 19, 1940 in Oakville, Ontario) is a retired track and field athlete who represented Canada in the men's 400 m hurdles and the men's decathlon at the 1964 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, Japan. He was awarded a silver medal in decathlon event at the 1963 Pan American Games in Brazil. Gairdner attended Appleby College in Oakville, and is now a resident of Toronto. Following his hurdling career, he applied himself to the field of academia. He gained his first M.A. in 1967 (studying Structural Linguistics at Stanford University) and then earned a
What sport does Hermann Gadner play? [SEP] and played with the national football team. He played 14 official matches, scoring 4 goals, 4 matches against amateur sides, scoring 2 goals and 2 games against the Spanish amateur team in an Olympic qualifier, not scoring in those matches. Hermann played with Víkingur R. until he was 10 years old, when he switched to Valur. One summer he scored 62 goals in 15 games for their youth team. Hermann started his senior career in 1963 with Valur, where he played until 1968, when he moved to Austria to play as a professional with SC Eisenstadt, the third Icelander to
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP]  Školnik started his career in Maribor and then transferred to Železničar Maribor youth sides at the age of 14. He played there for three years before returning to his home club where he signed his first professional contract. Školnik then played for Maribor in the Slovenian PrvaLiga for three seasons, earning 72 appearances and scoring 6 goals in the process. His talent was then spotted by Portuguese first division team Nacional, where he joined his teammate from Maribor Rene Mihelič, signing a five-year contract until 1 July 2015.
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP]  Dejan Školnik (born 1 January 1989 ) is a Croatian football midfielder who plays for USV Mettersdorf.
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP] Josef Trousil, Czech athlete
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP]  the European Championship. Josef Kadraba (born 1933), a Kladno striker and a player and coach for Slovan Wien, but mostly a member of the Czechoslovak national team, which surprised many by achieving the silver medal at the 1962 FIFA World Cup in Chile. Jan Suchopárek (born 1969), a Kladno pupil, a player with 61 caps in the national team. In 1996, he brought back "silver" for the second place at the Euro held in England. It should also be recalled that the legendary Czech striker and long-time player at Slavia Praha, Josef Bican (1913–2001), trained the Kladno first team in the 1962–63 season.
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP]  Currently Školnik was a member of Croatia U21 team. Before his international debut for Croatia he was offered a place in Slovenia U21 but Školnik turned down the offer and decided in favour of his parents homeland.
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP]
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP] national teams. Radovan Puliš Radovan Puliš is a Slovak professional ice hockey player currently playing for HKm Zvolen of the Slovak Extraliga. He played three seasons in the QMJHL, with the majority of time playing for Acadie-Bathurst Titan and a short time playing for Rouyn-Noranda Huskies. Puliš has played five seasons for HKm Zvolen. In the 2014–15 Slovak Extraliga season he was the leading goal scorer. He also won a league title during the 2012–13 Slovak Extraliga season. He played five games for Bratislava Slovan of the Kontinental Hockey League, scoring one goal. He has played for the Slovakian U-17
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP] Ladislav Ščurko Ladislav Ščurko (born April 4, 1986 in Gelnica) is a Slovak professional ice hockey center who currently plays for HC 07 Detva in Slovak Extraliga. He previously played for HC Košice until he confessed to a murder of an ice hockey referee in April 2009. Ščurko started his junior career by playing in 37 games with his junior team, HK VTJ Spisská Nová Ves, in Slovakia. He scored 44 points on 20 goals and 24 assists. Following that season he was drafted by the Philadelphia Flyers in the sixth round, 170th overall, in the 2004 NHL Entry Draft.
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP] based, HC Lev Praha on September 27, 2012. After 21 games with Lev Praha for 7 points, Skoula was placed on the unprotected list and went unclaimed. He was then reassigned to join hometown club, HC Stadion Litoměřice, of the 1. národní hokejová liga on December 26, 2012. On April 21, 2013, Skoula signed as a free agent to return to the KHL with HC Slovan Bratislava on a one-year contract. In the 2013–14 season, Skoula was one of only four Bratislava players to appear in every game with 54, helping contribute from the blueline with 13 points. He was
What sport does Radoslav Školník play? [SEP] league. He participated at the 2011 IIHF World Championship as a member of the Slovenia men's national ice hockey team. Greg Kuznik Gregory Kuznik () (born June 12, 1978 in Prince George, British Columbia) is a Slovene ice hockey player playing for Hockey Club Fassa in Italian Serie A. He was drafted 171st by the Hartford Whalers in the 1996 NHL Entry Draft. In the 2000–01 NHL season, he played one game for the Carolina Hurricanes. Since 2003 he has played in Europe, spending two seasons in the British National League for the Fife Flyers and two seasons in Italy's
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]  Gábor Jánvári (born 25 April 1990 in Kisvárda) is a Hungarian football player who currently plays for BFC Siófok.
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]  Updated to games played as of 30 September 2018.
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]  Gábor Császár (born 16 June 1984) is a Hungarian handball player for Kadetten Schaffhausen and the Hungarian national team. He made his full international debut on 17 January 2004 against Saudi Arabia. Just a few days later he was selected for the squad that represented Hungary on the 2004 European Championship. He participated on further six European Championships (2006, 2008, 2010, 2012, 2014, 2018) and was also present on six World Championships (2007, 2009, 2011, 2013, 2017, 2019). In addition, he was member of the Hungarian team that finished fourth at the 2004 Olympic Games and the team that finished fourth at the 2012 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]  He played for Újpesti Dózsa as a defender. He played 17 games for the Hungary national football team. Sóvári is most famous for playing in two 1962 World Cup qualifying matches and one match in the 1966 FIFA World Cup finals. His father, Kálmán Sóvári was an Olympic wrestler.
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]  László Jánovszki (born July 12, 1953 in Kondoros) is a former Hungarian handball player who competed in the 1976 Summer Olympics and in the 1980 Summer Olympics. In 1976, Jánovszki was a part of the Hungarian team which finished sixth in the Olympic tournament. He played all five matches and scored one goal. Four years later, Jánovszki finished fourth with the Hungarian team in the 1980 Olympic tournament. He played all six matches and scored three goals. Jánovszki has 3 children: Reka, Csilla and Laszlo. He has been with his wife since 21 August 1976. Since finishing handball, Laszlo has moved to Leeds, in the United Kingdom, and has done great work with his wife working with children with cerebral palsy.
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP]
What sport does Gábor Jánvári play? [SEP] 2013–14 Magyar Kupa  The 2013–14 Magyar Kupa (English: "Hungarian Cup") was the 74th season of Hungary's annual knock-out cup football competition. It started with the first match of Round 1 on 7 August 2013 and ended with the Final held in May 2014 at Stadium Puskás Ferenc, Budapest. Debrecen were the defending champions, having won their sixth cup competition last season. The winner of the competition will qualify for the second qualifying round of the 2014–15 UEFA Europa League.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]  The 1995 season of the Cook Islands Round Cup was the twenty second recorded season of top flight association football competition in the Cook Islands, with any results between 1951 and 1969 and also in 1986 and 1988–1990 currently unknown. PTC Coconuts won the championship, their first, and to date, only title.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]  The 1996 season of the Cook Islands Round Cup was the twenty third recorded season of top flight association football competition in the Cook Islands, with any results between 1951 and 1969 and also in 1986 and 1988–1990 currently unknown. Avatiu won the championship, their fourth recorded championship, although some sources indicate that they also won the 1993 season.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]  The 1997 season of the Cook Islands Round Cup was the twenty fourth recorded season of top flight association football competition in the Cook Islands, with any results between 1951 and 1969 and also in 1986 and 1988–1990 currently unknown. Avatiu won the championship, their fourth recorded championship, and second in a row, although some sources indicate that they also won the 1993 season.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]  The 2007 season of the Cook Islands Round Cup was the thirty fourth recorded season of top flight association football competition in the Cook Islands, with any results between 1951 and 1969 and also in 1986 and 1988–1990 currently unknown. Tupapa Maraerenga won the championship, their seventh recorded championship although other sources suggest that their victories in 1992 and 1993 were won by Takuvaine and Avatiu respectively.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]  The 1988–89 season of the Cook Islands Round Cup was the twenty fifth recorded season of top flight association football competition in the Cook Islands, with any results between 1951 and 1969 and also in 1986 and 1988–1990 currently unknown. Tupapa Maraerenga won the championship, their third recorded championship, although other sources suggest that their victories in 1992 and 1993 were won by Takuvaine and Avatiu respectively.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP] Sport in the Cook Islands  Rugby league is the national sport and most popular sport in the Cook Islands, with soccer and rugby union as the next most popular/played sports. In September 2009, the Cook Islands hosted the 2009 Pacific Mini Games. Cook Islands Sports National Olympic Committee is the official governing body of sport in the Cook Islands.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP]
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP] Culture of the Cook Islands  The culture of the Cook Islands reflects the traditions of its fifteen islands as a Polynesian island country, spread over in the South Pacific Ocean. It is in free association with New Zealand. Its traditions are based on the influences of those who settled the islands over several centuries. Polynesian people from Tahiti settled in the Cook Islands in the 6th century. The Portuguese captain, Pedro Fernandes de Queirós, made the first recorded European landing in the islands in the early 17th century, and well over a hundred years later, in the 18th century, the British navigator, Captain James Cook arrived, giving the islands their current name. Missionaries developed a written language, bringing schools and Christianity to the Cook Islands in the early 19th century. Cook Islands Māori, also known as Māori Kūki 'Āirani or Rarotongan, is the country's official language.  The Culture Division of the Cook Islands Government supports and preserves the country's national heritage. One of the popular traditional dances of the Cook Islands is the "Ura", a sacred ritual usually performed by a female who moves her body to tell a story, accompanied by intense drumming by at least five drummers. The craft of the locals can be seen in dresses, sarongs, and jewellery crafted with local products, such as shells, and an important practice among women is tivaevae, a type of quilting. Typical cuisine consumed in the Cook Island is fresh seafood such as octopus or clams, lamb or suckling pig, and fresh fruit, especially coconut. Rugby union and bowling are popular sports, and the islands hosted the 1986 Pacific Cup and the 1998 Polynesia Cup. The House of Ariki ("Are Ariki") offers dignity but limited power to the "ariki", historical chiefs in the islands' social hierarchy.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP] Rugby League World Cup  The Rugby League World Cup is an international rugby league tournament contested by the top national men's representative teams. The tournament is administered by the International Rugby League and was first held in France in 1954, which was the first World Cup held for any form of rugby football.  The idea of a rugby league World Cup tournament was first mooted in the 1930s with the French proposal to hold a tournament in 1931, and again in 1951. The tournament's structure, frequency, and size has varied significantly throughout its history. The winners are awarded the Paul Barrière Trophy, named after Paul Barrière, the French Rugby League President of the 1940s and 1950s. Three nations have won the tournament; twelve times, three times, and once. Australia has been in the final of every World Cup, except the first in 1954, when they came third, which was considered to be a complete upset with the bookmakers at the time having Australia as strong favourites.   The last World Cup was held in England in 2022 after being delayed by a year due to the Covid 19 pandemic. The next World Cup will be held in France in 2025.
What sport does 1995 Cook Islands Round Cup play? [SEP] Cook Islands national football team results  This article lists the results for the Cook Islands national football team.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]  Hans Pieren (born 23 January 1962) is a Swiss former alpine skier who competed in the 1988 Winter Olympics and 1992 Winter Olympics.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]  Johannes Maria Henricus ("Eric" or "Erik") Pierik (born March 21, 1959 in Zwolle) is a former field hockey player from the Netherlands, who was a member of the Dutch National Team that finished sixth in the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Pierik earned a total number of 73 caps, scoring one goal, in the years 1980-1984. After the Los Angeles Games he retired from international competition.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP] Hans Bjerrum (1899 in Hellerup – 1979) a Danish field hockey player, team silver medallist at the 1920 Summer Olympics later founded Bierrum which makes concrete cooling towers ; Jørgen Ulrich (1935 in Hellerup – 2010) a Danish tennis player ; Torben Piechnik (born 1963 in Hellerup) a Danish former professional footballer with over 400 caps ; Paul Elvstrom (born 1928 in Hellerup) a Danish sailor who won four Olympic gold medals and twenty world titles in a range of classes including Snipe, Soling, Star, Flying Dutchman, Finn, 505, and 5.5 Metre. For his achievements, Elvstrøm was chosen as "Danish Sportsman of the Century.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]  Brase plays internationally for Germany. In 2013, he attended the under-20 European Championships in Estonia. During the summer of 2014, he played in friendly tournaments across Europe ultimately culminating in a six team tournament in China. He won silver at the 2015 World University Games in South Korea after losing to the Kansas Jayhawks, who were representing the United States, in the gold medal game. Brase led the team in scoring and rebounding as their only defeat in the tournament was to Kansas in double overtime.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]  van der Doelen, Dutch soccer player ; Björn Dunkerbeck, Dutch windsurfer ; Björn Einarsson, Swedish bandy player ; Björn Emmerling, German field hockey player ; Björn Ferry, Swedish skier ; Björn Forslund, Swedish sailor ; Björn Forslund (Speed skater), Swedish speed skater ; Bjorn Fratangelo, American tennis player ; Bjørn Grimnes, Norwegian athlete ; Bjørn Gundersen, Norwegian athlete ; Bjorn Haneveer, Belgian snooker player ; Bjørn Johansen (footballer), Norwegian footballer ; Bjørn Johansen (ice hockey), Norwegian ice hockey player ; Björn Joppien, German badminton player ; Björn Kircheisen, also known as Bjoern Kircheisen, German Olympic athlete ; Björn Knutsson, Swedish motorcycle racer ; Bjørn "Benny" Kristensen, Danish soccer
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP] Giant slalom  Giant slalom (GS) is an alpine skiing and alpine snowboarding discipline. It involves skiing between sets of poles ("gates") spaced at a greater distance from each other than in slalom but less than in Super-G.  Giant slalom and slalom make up the technical events in alpine ski racing. This category separates them from the speed events of Super-G and downhill. The technical events are normally composed of two runs, held on different courses on the same ski run.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP] Switzerland at the 1992 Winter Olympics  Switzerland competed at the 1992 Winter Olympics in Albertville, France. Nicolas Bochatay, a member of the delegation, was to represent the country in the speed skiing finals, but he was killed in an accident on the morning of the day of the competition he was to compete in.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP] LGBT rights in Switzerland  Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) rights in Switzerland are progressive by European standards. Their history is one of liberalisation at an increasing pace since the 1940s, in parallel to the legal situation in Europe and the Western world more generally. Legislation providing for same-sex marriage, same-sex adoption, and IVF access was accepted by 64% of voters in a referendum on 26 September 2021, and entered into force on 1 July 2022.  Same-sex sexual acts between adults have been legal in Switzerland since 1942. The age of consent has been equal at 16 for homosexual and heterosexual sex since a referendum in May 1992. There has been legal recognition for same-sex relationships since 2007 following a referendum in June 2005. A legal procedure for the registration of sex changes following sex reassignment surgery was outlined in 1993, though since 2010, authorities have followed a practice of registration of sex changes without any requirement of surgery. From January 2022, sex changes on documents by “self-determination” was passed and implemented throughout Switzerland. The Swiss Constitution of 1999 (Art. 8) guarantees equal treatment before the law, specifying "way of life" as one of the criteria protected against discrimination. Certain forms of homophobic discrimination have been a criminal offense since a referendum in February 2020.  The largest LGBT rights advocacy groups in Switzerland are Lesbenorganisation Schweiz for lesbian rights (founded in 1989), Pink Cross for LGBT rights (founded in 1993), and Transgender Network Switzerland (founded in 2010). In the 2010s, these groups have increasingly tended to make use of the initialism LGBTI (for "lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersex") as an umbrella term for their respective areas of interest. Intersex organization "Zwischengeschlecht" campaigns for intersex rights and bodily autonomy.
What sport does Hans Pieren play? [SEP]
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP]  Messali was a member of the Algerian Under-23 National Team in 2003 and 2004. He played at the 2003 All-Africa Games in Nigeria and the qualifiers for the 2004 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP]  Abdelmalek Rahou (b. March 17, 1986 - Algier) is an Algerian boxer who competed at the 2012 Olympics at Middleweight. At the Olympic qualifier (results) he won two bouts and qualified in spite of being edged out by Mujandjae Kasuto. In London 2012 (results) he beat the Australian Jesse Ross then lost to eventual champion Ryōta Murata 12:21.
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP]  He made his professional debut in the Segunda Liga for Santa Clara on 19 March 2017 in a game against Braga B. in 2020 he left Khor Fakkan to become a free agent
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP]  Abdelmalek Mokdad (عبد المالك مقداد; born May 5, 1986, in Ain El Hadjar) is an Algerian footballer who plays for French Championnat National team Créteil.
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP]  games in which he played, leading all players in scoring, and was selected to the tournament Best XI. Adu was named to the 18-man squad that represented the United States in the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Adu played in the first two games of group play against Japan and Netherlands. He assisted on a Sacha Kljestan goal in the Netherlands match, but he, as well as teammate Michael Bradley, was then suspended for the final game of group play against Nigeria after each player earned his second yellow card of group play late in the Netherlands match. The US team was eliminated from the Olympics after falling to Nigeria.
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP] Adel (name)  Adel is a given name of ancient European origins that evolved from words meaning "noble", "nobility" or "elite".  It is derived primarily from the languages of north-western Europe, which include English, French, Luxembourgish, German, Dutch, Frisian, Danish, Norwegian, Swedish, Finnish, Faroese, and Icelandic. Today, "Adel" is a gender-neutral given name and short form of given names with this combining element.  Nordic variants of the name include Ådel, Ädel, Ádel, and Ædel. German and Dutch variants of the name include Adal and Edel. French variants of the name include Édel and Adél (not to be confused with Adèle). Adelson and Adelaide are notable masculine and feminine forms. Adelle (Adèle) is a popular feminine alternative.<ref name=":1" />  Although global, Adel remains prominent in north-western European countries. It can also be found as a family name with or without an affix (such as de Adel, den Adel, or van Adel).  The earliest known woman with the name was Princess Adel of Liege (born ). The earliest known man with the name was King Adel of Sweden (born ). His son's name was Adelson«ref></ref> The legendary king of the Frisians and founder of the kingdom, Friso, had a son named Adel (later king of Frisia), supposedly born in the 3rd century BC.  Adel is an exemplar of a monothematic name. It is also the root of the names Adelais, Aderic, Adolf, Albert, and Alice, and their variants in other languages.  It is not related to the Arabic name Adil, also spelled Adel, which derives from the root 'ādil, meaning just or equitable.
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP] 1996, a friendly match against Senegal. Due to nationality transfer was not allowed until the 2000s, he's entered the team again and been a regular with the Tunisian national team since 2003 and won the 2004 African Nations' Cup with the "Carthage Eagles". He was also a member of the Tunisian Confederations Cup team in 2005 and was a member of the squad at the 2006 World cup. Adel Chedli Adel Ben-Bechir Chedli (, born 16 September 1976 in La Ricamarie, Loire, France) is a Tunisian football player currently playing for Moroccan club Raja Casablanca. He was born and raised
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP] game was on 19 November 2008 against Egypt. Achille Rouga Abdoul Rachid Achille Rouga (born 20 June 1987 in Parakou) is a Beninese international football player. The French-based midfielder was on the books of Stade Rennais F.C., but never played a senior match. He left in summer 2008 Rennes to join . He left after one year for the Netherlands for SC. Unitas'30 Etten-Leur. He left his club in summer 2010 SC. He returned to Benin where he signed with Avrankou Omnisport FC. In summer 2011 he left Benin and returned to Europe, with English-based Basingstoke Town. Rouga played one
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP] El-Harby. On 17 May 2010, ENPPI announced through its official web site the signing of Aboul Ela. He penned a five season contract. Francophone Games' Bronze Medalist with Egyptian Olympic Team 2001 African Youth Cup of Nations Under 17 years Title 1997 Mohamed Aboul Ela Mohamed Abo Elala () is an Egyptian football player. The left-footed can play either as a Centr-Midfielder or Left Wingback. Abo Elala was a former Zamalek captain. Mohamed Aboul Ela played for El Zamalek for 21 years; since he was 8 years old till 29. In summer 2009, Aboul Ela moved to El-Entag El-Harby (aka
What sport does Adel Bousmal play? [SEP] Adel Chedli Adel Ben-Bechir Chedli (, born 16 September 1976 in La Ricamarie, Loire, France) is a Tunisian football player currently playing for Moroccan club Raja Casablanca. He was born and raised in France although joined the Manchester United academy in 1995. After 1 year at the club he earned his only first team experience in a closed doors friendly against Celtic. He went on to join AS Saint-Étienne and broke into the first team in 1996. In 1997, he was transferred to FC Sochaux for whom he played several years in the Ligue 1. It was during that time
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP]  Born in Irvine, Scotland, Muirhead was known for playing football and golf locally, and was mentioned on several occasions in his local newspaper. Muirhead is also the first and still the only boy to win both the West of Scotland Cup and Scottish Cup when representing Annanhill Primary School during year 6 and year 7 when he was Captain of the schools team.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP]  Glen Muirhead (born 10 April 1989) is a Scottish curler from Blair Atholl. He competed for Great Britain at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Glen's brother Thomas and sister Eve are also British curlers, and their father Gordon is also a former professional curler.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP]  Thomas Brandon Muirhead (born 11 April 1995) is a Scottish curler from Blair Atholl. He competed for Great Britain at the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, South Korea. Thomas' brother Glen and sister Eve are also British curlers, and their father Gordon is also a former professional curler.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP]  Muirhead began his curling career playing for Logan Gray's team. In 2014, Glen and his brother Thomas joined Tom Brewster's curling team, and also competed in the 2015 World University Games. In 2016, Glen competed against his brother Thomas, losing the match 4–2. In 2016, he was part of the Scotland team that reached the final of the Grand Slam of Curling. Muirhead was on the team that came second at the 2017 European Curling Championships. After finishing in the top eight at the 2017 World Curling Championships, Team Smith, led by Kyle Smith, qualified for the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang,
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP]  Muirhead's father, Gordon, was also an international curler, who competed in the 1992 Winter Olympics, where curling was a demonstration sport and was alternate for Scotland's 1999 gold medal winning World Championship team. He also won world silver medals in 1992, 1993 and 1995. She grew up in Blair Atholl, Scotland, and plays golf off scratch handicap at Pitlochry Golf Course. Muirhead is also an accomplished bagpiper, piping at four World Championships. On 5 April 2010, Muirhead modelled at the eighth annual fashion show Dressed to Kilt. It was announced on 17 May 2010 that Muirhead would be the new ambassador for Piping Live! 2010, a festival dedicated to playing the bagpipes which would run from 9–15
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP] Scott Muirhead  Scott Muirhead (born 5 August 1984 in Paisley) is a Scottish professional footballer. He is currently retired, residing in Melbourne, Australia.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP] Aaron Muirhead  Aaron Muirhead (born 30 August 1990)<ref name="Partick" /> is a Scottish professional footballer who currently plays as a defender for Partick Thistle in the Scottish Championship. Muirhead has previously played for Annan Athletic, Partick Thistle and Falkirk, after progressing through Ayr United's youth academy.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP] 2018–19 UT Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team  The 2018–19 UT Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team represented the University of Texas at Arlington during the 2018–19 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Mavericks, led by first-year head coach Chris Ogden, played their home games at the College Park Center as members of the Sun Belt Conference. They finished the season 17–16, 12–6 in Sun Belt play to finish a three-way tie for second place. As the No. 2 seed in the Sun Belt tournament, they defeated Georgia Southern in the semifinals before losing to Georgia State in the championship.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP] 2015–16 UT Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team  The 2015–16 Texas–Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team represented the University of Texas at Arlington during the 2015–16 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Mavericks, led by tenth year head coach Scott Cross, played their home games at the College Park Center and were a member of the Sun Belt Conference. They finished the season 24–11, 13–7 in Sun Belt play to finish in third place. They defeated Texas State to advance to the semifinals of the Sun Belt tournament where they lost to Louisiana–Monroe. They were invited to the CollegeInsider.com Tournament where they defeated Savannah State in the first round (the Mavericks' first ever post-season win in any tournament), received a second round bye and lost in the quarterfinals to NJIT. The 24 wins tied the 2011 team for most in a single Maverick season.
What sport does Scott Muirhead play? [SEP] 2016–17 UT Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team  The 2016–17 Texas–Arlington Mavericks men's basketball team represented the University of Texas at Arlington during the 2016–17 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Mavericks, led by 11th-year head coach Scott Cross, played their home games at the College Park Center as members of the Sun Belt Conference. They finished the season 27–9, 14–4 in Sun Belt play to win the Sun Belt regular season championship. In the Sun Belt tournament, they defeated Coastal Carolina before losing in the semifinals to Texas State. As a regular season conference champions who failed to win their conference tournament, they received an automatic bid to the National Invitation Tournament where they defeated BYU and Akron before losing in the quarterfinals to Cal State Bakersfield.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP]  Sofia Anker-Kofoed (born 28 November 1994) is a Swedish footballer. She last played as an attacker for FC Rosengård in the Damallsvenskan.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP]  She plays for FC Rosengård since 2011, winning a Damallsvenskan titles in 2013 and a Super Cup in 2012.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP]  She was part of the Sweden U-19 that won the 2012 UEFA Women's U-19 Championship.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP] UEFA Women's U-19 Championship: 2012 Winner
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP] FC Rosengård Damallsvenskan: 2013 ; Super Cup: 2012 Damallsvenskan: 2012 Winner Runner-up
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP]
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP] 2017 NCAA Division I women's soccer tournament  The 2017 NCAA Division I women's soccer tournament (semi-finals and final also known as the 2017 Women's College Cup) was the 36th annual single-elimination tournament to determine the national champion of NCAA Division I women's collegiate soccer. The semi-finals and championship game were played at Orlando City Stadium in Orlando, Florida on December 1 and 3, 2017, while the preceding rounds were played at various sites across the country during November 2017. The Stanford Cardinal were tournament champions, winning the final 3–2 over the UCLA Bruins.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP] List of Danes  This is a list of notable Danish people.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP] 2012–13 UEFA Women's Champions League  The 2012–13 UEFA Women's Champions League was the 12th edition of the European women's championship for football clubs. The final was held at Stamford Bridge, London, England on 23 May 2013.
What sport does Sofia Anker-Kofoed play? [SEP]
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP]  The sport of football in the country of Kiribati is run by the Kiribati Islands Football Association. The association administers the national men's football team and national women's football team as well as the Kiribati National Championship.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP]  The Kiribati national football team is the national men's football team of Kiribati and is controlled by the Kiribati Islands Football Association. Kiribati is not a member of FIFA but is an associate member of the Oceania Football Confederation (OFC), and is therefore not eligible to enter the FIFA World Cup but may enter the OFC Nations Cup. It became a provisional member of the N.F.-Board on 10 December 2005. Kiribati is also a member of the ConIFA.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP]   Kiribati has competed at the Commonwealth Games since 1998 and the Summer Olympics since 2004. It sent three competitors to its first Olympics, two sprinters and a weightlifter. Kiribati won its first ever Commonwealth Games medal at the 2014 Commonwealth Games when weightlifter David Katoatau won Gold in the 105 kg Group. Football is the most popular sport. Kiribati Islands Football Federation (KIFF) is an associate member of the Oceania Football Confederation, but not of world-governing body FIFA. Instead, they are member of ConIFA. Kiribati National team has played ten matches, all of which it has lost, and all at the Pacific Games from 1979 to 2011. The Kiribati football stadium is Bairiki National Stadium, which has a capacity of 2,500. The is home to a number of local sporting teams.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP]  (1) Represented by a club team.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP]  The Kiribati National Championship is the top division of competitive football in the nation of Kiribati, founded in 2002 by the Kiribati Islands Football Association, the nations football governing body. The association and the National Championships are based in the capital city, South Tarawa. The competition reunites only temporary council teams (one council team on each island, two council teams on Tabiteuea and 3 teams on Tarawa) and is disputed during Te Runga, the National Games held every two years.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP] Sport in Oceania  The most popular sport in Oceania varies from country to country. The most popular sport in Australia is cricket, the most popular sport among Australian women is netball, while Australian rules football is the most popular sport in terms of spectatorship and television ratings. Rugby is the most popular sport among New Zealanders. In Papua New Guinea, the most popular sport is the Rugby league.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP] List of national stadiums  Many countries have a national sport stadium, which typically serves as the primary or exclusive home for one or more of a country's national representative sports teams. The term is most often used in reference to an association football stadium. Usually, a national stadium will be in or very near a country's capital city or largest city. It is generally (but not always) the country's largest and most lavish sports venue with a rich history of hosting a major moment in sports (e.g. FIFA World Cup, Olympics, etc.). In many, but not all cases, it is also used by a local team. Many countries, including Spain and the United States, do not have a national stadium designated as such; instead matches are rotated throughout the country. The lack of a national stadium can be seen as advantageous as designating a single stadium would limit the fan base capable of realistically attending matches as well as the concern of the cost of transportation, especially in the case of the United States due to its geographical size and high population.  A list of national stadiums follows:
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP] List of men's national basketball teams  This is a list of the men's national basketball teams in the world. There are more than 200 national basketball teams, the second sport with more national teams, with teams representing all UN member states except Liechtenstein, as well as several dependent territories, sub-national entities and states who are not members of the United Nations.  This list excludes other teams, which generally play outside FIBA's recognition. Excluded teams include those who represent ethnic groups, sub-national entities and dependent territories other than those recognized by FIBA or its confederations, competitors at the Island Games, unrecognized states, separatist movements, and pseudo or micronations.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP] Vatican City national football team  The Vatican City national football team () is the football team that represents Vatican City under the control of the Vatican Amateur Sports Association, headquartered in the Vatican's Cortile di San Damaso. The Vatican City football association was founded in 1972. Its current president is Domenico Ruggerio. Gianfranco Guadagnoli, an Italian, is the current head coach. His first match as manager was played on 23 October 2010 when Vatican City faced a team composed of Italian financial police. The team played its first match in 1985, a 3–0 victory against a representative of Austrian journalists. In 2018, the Vatican also created a women's representative team.
What sport does Kiribati men's national basketball team play? [SEP] Sport in Glasgow  Sport plays an important role in the culture of Glasgow, the largest city in Scotland. Association football is particularly popular: Glasgow is known for the fierce Old Firm rivalry between Scotland's most successful clubs, Celtic and Rangers. The national stadium, Hampden Park, is located in the city and stages most home matches of the Scotland national team, as well as the finals of the Scottish Cup and Scottish League Cup. The Scottish Football Association (SFA) and Scottish Professional Football League (SPFL) are both also based at Hampden. The world's first official international match took place in Glasgow in 1872.  Glasgow was the host city for the 2014 Commonwealth Games, and was named European Capital of Sport in 2003.  The city also has professional teams in rugby union, basketball, speedway and formerly in American football.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP]  Samir Sarsare is a Moroccan footballer. He usually plays as forward. Sarsare is currently attached to Moghreb Tétouan.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP]  While growing up in La Gavotte Peyret, Nasri regularly played the sport on the streets where he learned many of his skills. Upon noticing his prodigious talent, his parents signed him up to play with the local club in his hometown. Nasri spent one year playing with the club in La Gavotte Peyret before moving to Pennes Mirabeau in nearby Mirabeau at age seven. While playing with Pennes, Nasri was discovered by Marseille scout Freddy Assolen, who had been informed of the player's talent through local word of mouth. After noticing Nasri's skill in person, Assolen recruited the player to travel with a group of other young players to Italy to participate in a youth tournament where they would play against the youth academies of Milan and Juventus. Nasri impressed at the tournament and Assolen was jokingly told by a Milan scout that "he [Nasri] stays here, you leave him". After returning to France, Marseille officials organized a meeting with the player's father and the group agreed to allow Nasri insertion into the club's academy at the age of nine.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP]  Sami Ali El Choum (سامي علي الشوم; born 22 June 1982) is a Lebanese football coach and former player who is the head coach of club AC Sporting. A defensive midfielder for Lebanese Premier League side Ansar, El Choum remained at the Beirut-based club for over 10 years, winning multiple titles. He played for Homenetmen in the Lebanese Second Division for one year. El Choum represented the Lebanon national team in 2003. Between 2017 and 2018 El Choum coached Ansar, winning the 2016–17 Lebanese FA Cup, before becoming coach of Lebanese Third Division side AC Sporting in 2018, leading them to back-to-back promotions to the Lebanese Premier League.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP]  Sarr started playing basketball at age three with his father, a former player, and drew inspiration from Hakeem Olajuwon. He played for club teams Bouscat and TOAC before joining INSEP, a sports institute in Paris. He competed for Centre Fédéral in the Nationale Masculine 1 and represented INSEP at the Adidas Next Generation Tournament. Sarr moved to the United States when he was 15 years old. He was considered a four-star recruit by Scout and committed to Wake Forest over offers from California, Vanderbilt and UCF.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP]  Samir Bouguerra (سمير بوقرة; born July 18, 1982) is an amateur Algerian Greco-Roman wrestler, who played for the men's heavyweight category. He won a silver medal for his division at the 2007 All-Africa Games in Algiers, losing out to Egyptian wrestler and defending Olympic champion Karam Gaber. Bouguerra represented Algeria at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where he competed for the men's 96 kg class. He received a bye for the preliminary round of sixteen match, before losing out to China's Jiang Huachen, who was able to score eight points in two straight periods, leaving Bouguerra without a single point.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP] Wydad AC in international football  Wydad Athletic Club, a Moroccan professional association football club, has gained entry to all international competitions on several occasions from 1941.
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP] age of 13 he started playing the position of setter for the first team in the club IK Ymer, which was at the time in the 3rd division in the Swedish league. In 2006 he finished a referee course to become a referee for the 1st division for women and 3rd division for men. Played in the club Borås Rhinos and got elected MVP offence in 2007. While playing in the club he scored 21 touchdowns and 86% of the team's points. Sarovic started practicing track and field in 2008 in the Swedish club IK Ymer. He practiced track for
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP] out of the competition. Samir Aït Saïd Samir Aït Saïd (born November 1, 1989) is a French male artistic gymnast and a member of the national team. He scored a career total of three medals, one in each color, in the rings apparatus at the European Championships (2013 to 2015), and was also selected to compete for the French men's artistic gymnastics squad at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro. In the qualification phase of the men's artistic gymnastics, Aït Saïd suffered a double compound fracture in his left leg while landing badly on the vault exercise, forcing
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP] weight classes to light-heavyweight to qualify for the 2008 Summer Olympics because Ahmed Saraku was the established middleweight. He managed to achieve this in the second qualifier. Bastir Samir Bastir Samir (born May 19, 1986) is a Ghanaian boxer who won silver in the welterweight division at the 2007 All-Africa Games. He qualified for the Olympics 2008 in the light-heavyweight division. Samir is the brother of bantamweight Issa Samir and is the team captain of Ghana's national team "Black Bombers". He won the African Championships in the welterweight division in May 2007. At the All-African Games he knocked out Hosam
What sport does Samir Sarsare play? [SEP] to practice swimming and gymnastics at age 4, he tried most sports and had multiple practices a day up to his late teens, when he decided to focus solely on track and field. Across all seasons he averaged 22.6 points per game, most often playing as the playmaker. He has a blue belt in judo. Played on the Regional U13 Team. He also participated in the try-outs for the Regional U16 Team. Became regional champion (Västra Götaland) with Byttorps IF's Reserve Team in the Premier Division for reserve teams. Coached the club's U13 team for the seasons 2007-2008. Was a
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]  The Tunisian Seniors Open was a senior (over 50s) men's professional match play golf tournament played on the European Seniors Tour. It was played in late 1992 and then from 2001 to 2003. It was held at Port El Kantaoui Golf Club, Port El Kantaoui, Tunisia which had previously hosted the Tunisian Open from 1982 to 1985.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]  The Swiss Seniors Open is the Swiss stop on men's professional golf's European Senior Tour. It was founded in 1997 as the Credit Suisse Private Banking Seniors Open and from 1999 to 2014 was known as the Bad Ragaz PGA Seniors Open. It is played at Bad Ragaz Golf Club. In 2019 the prize fund was €320,000.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]  Underwater hockey in Turkey is governed by the Turkish Underwater Sports Federation (Türkiye Sualtı Sporları Federasyonu, TSSF). The TSSF organizes annual Turkey Cups for masters, under-24, and under-19 men's and women's clubs. National teams of men and women masters, U24 and U19 take part at international competitions.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]  The country competed in its first event at the 2010 European Mixed Curling Championship, where they placed 23rd of 24 teams. They won one game, against the Netherlands. Turkey's first participation in juniors category was in the 2013 European Junior Curling Challenge in Prague, Czech Republic, a qualification tournament for the 2013 World Junior Curling Championships. Turkish national wheelchair curling team, which consisted of curlers all from İstanbul Büyükşehir Belediyesi S.K., made its debut in November 2012 at the 2013 World Wheelchair Curling Championship – Qualification Event in Lohja, Finland.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]  The Greek Seniors Open was an over-50s men's professional golf tournament on the European Seniors Tour that was played at Glyfada Golf Club of Athens, Glifada in Athens from 1999 to 2001. The 2001 event was won by Russell Weir, his only win on the Seniors Tour.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP] Football in Turkey  Football is the most popular sport in Turkey, followed by basketball, tracing its roots to the Ottoman Empire. The first matches were played in Ottoman Salonica in 1875. The sport was introduced by English residents. The Turkish football league system comprises five professional leagues, one of which is dedicated to female athletes.
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP]
What sport does Turkish Seniors Open play? [SEP] World Team Olympiad  The World Team Olympiad was a contract bridge meet organized by the World Bridge Federation every four years from 1960 to 2004. Its main events were world championships for national teams, always including one open and one restricted to women ("Open" and "Women" "categories" in WBF terms). A parallel event for seniors was inaugurated in 2000.  Although the Olympiad has been discontinued, its main constituent championships continue within or beside the World Mind Sports Games, first held October 2008 in Beijing, China, and the subsequent results are listed here. In 2016, the events were run separately, as the World Bridge Games, in Wrocław, Poland.  The 1960 "Olympiad" was the first meet organized by the WBF, although the organization has adopted one older event that now confers the title "World Champion", the Bermuda Bowl competition.  The Olympiad championships differed from other world-level championships for "national"  teams primarily by inviting every WBF member country to enter a team in each tournament. Other world championships, including the older Bermuda Bowl for open teams that is now contested every odd-number year, require qualification at a "zone" level. For example, about 40 national open teams from European Bridge League member countries may compete biennially for about six entries in the Bermuda Bowl tournament.  Over the twelve World Team Olympiad cycles, the fields grew from 29 open and 14 women teams in 1960 to 72 open, 43 women, and 29 seniors teams in 2004. For the first World Mind Sports Games there were 71 open and 54 women entries; the Seniors International Cup continued as a non-medal event with 32 entries. Seniors participation increased to 34 at the second WMSG in 2012 while the numbers of open and women entries dropped to 60 and 43.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP]  Njurunda SK is an ice hockey team in Njurunda, Sweden. They play in the Swedish Division 2, the fourth level of ice hockey in Sweden. Their home arena is the Njurunda ishall, which opened in 1986. Henrik Zetterberg used to play for the club's youth team. Njurunda had previously played in the third-level Division 1, but elected to drop out of the league during the 2012-13 season, following the conclusion of the Division 1B continuation series.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP]  the club. Vendelboe was part of a consortium which purchased the football club AC Nakuru, and included and merged it with the rest of the Nakuru AllStars club. Among the members of the new technical staff was Sammy Nyongesa who was a player with the original team in 1969 when it last won the league. He has also previously coached the Kenya national football team and is known in Nakuru for running the Youth Olympic centre that produced such as players as Ambrose Ayoyi and John Muiruri In 2011, the Nakuru AllStars played in the FKL Nationwide League. When the new owners came in the former team had amassed 9 points from 12 matches and were firmly in the relegation spot but by the end of the season the team
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] Fredrik Modin – Hockey player ; Henrik Zetterberg – Hockey player ; Lars Dahlqvist – Skier ; Fredrik Wikingsson – Journalist ; Sebastian Lauritzen – Hockey player ; Mathias Månsson – Hockey player
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP]  Skuru IK Handboll is a women's handball team based in Nacka, Sweden, that competes in the SHE Women. They play their home matches in Nacka Bollhall, which have capacity for 460 spectators. They play in green shirts and green shorts.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP]  Nju played for General Caballero ZC.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] Fredrik Modin  Jan Fredrik "Freddy" Modin (born 8 October 1974) is a Swedish former professional ice hockey left winger who played 14 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) and most notably won the Stanley Cup with the Tampa Bay Lightning in the 2003–04 season.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] 2012–13 Division 1 season (Swedish ice hockey)  The 2012–13 Division 1 season in Swedish hockey was played from 12 September 2012 to 17 February 2013, with a number of playoff and promotion/relegation tournaments continuing until 27 March. The season resulted in IF Björklöven (which has previously played in the upper leagues of Swedish hockey) being promoted to the second-tier league HockeyAllsvenskan.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] 2011–12 Division 1 season (Swedish ice hockey)  The 2011–12 season of Division 1, the third tier of ice hockey in Sweden, began on 14 September 2011 and ended on 19 February 2012, with promotion and relegation tournaments continuing until 6 April. 56 teams participated in the league (Luleå Rebels HC had gone bankrupt in October 2011<ref name="Luleå Rebels bankruptcy" />), divided into six geographical groups lettered A through F.
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] 2004–05 Division 1 season (Swedish ice hockey)  2004–05 was the sixth season that Division 1 functioned as the third-level of ice hockey in Sweden, below the second-level Allsvenskan and the top-level Elitserien (now the SHL).
What sport does Njurunda SK play? [SEP] 1999–2000 Division 1 season (Swedish ice hockey)  1999–2000 was the first season that Division 1 functioned as the third-level of ice hockey in Sweden, below the second-level Allsvenskan and the top-level Elitserien (now the SHL).
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]  The 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final was a football match that took place at the Dnipro Stadium on May 31, 2009. The match was the 18th Ukrainian Cup final and it was contested by Shakhtar Donetsk and Vorskla Poltava. The 2009 final was the first time a Ukrainian Cup final was held in Dnipropetrovsk. Vorskla Poltava, as Ukrainian Cup winners, qualified for the UEFA Europa League play-off round.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]  The 2008 Ukrainian Cup Final was a football match that took place at the Metalist Stadium on May 7, 2008. The match was the 17th Ukrainian Cup Final and it was contested by Shakhtar Donetsk and Dynamo Kyiv. The 2008 Ukrainian Cup FInal was the first to be held outside of the Ukrainian capital Kyiv. Shakhtar won the match 2–0 through goals from Oleksandr Gladkiy and Oleksiy Gai. The match had five red cards issued, two to Dynamo players and three to Shakhtar players. The match also had six yellow cards (Gladkiy received two), four of which were given to Shakhtar players and two to Dynamo players. This was in part because of players' violent behavior and also because referee Victor Shvetsov made several misjudgments.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]  The 2010 Ukrainian Cup Final was a football match that was played place at the Metalist Stadium, Kharkiv, on 16 May 2010. The match was the 19th Ukrainian Cup final and was contested by Metalurh Donetsk and Tavriya Simferopol. The final was the second time a Ukrainian Cup final was held in Kharkiv. The Ukrainian Cup winners qualified for the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League play-off round. Tavriya played in their second cup final after last appearing in 1994, where the side lost to Chornomorets Odessa on penalty kicks (5–3) after the matched finished 0–0 after extra time. Metalurh Donetsk were playing in their first cup final.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]  The 2005 Ukrainian Cup Final was a football match that took place at the NSC Olimpiyskiy on 29 May 2005. The match was the 14th Ukrainian Cup Final and it was contested by Shakhtar Donetsk and Dynamo Kyiv. The Olympic stadium is the traditional arena for the Cup final. The game was remembered for involving the most foreign players in the Ukrainian Cup finals: out of 36 players on both teams' rosters, 28 were from outside of Ukraine. Of the starting line-ups, there were five Brazilians, four Ukrainians, four Romanians, and others. Refereeing the match was a Norwegian team of referees.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]  The Cup final was played on May 16, 2010.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP] 2009–10 Ukrainian Cup  The 2009–10 Ukrainian Cup was the 19th annual season of Ukraine's football knockout competition, currently known as "DATAGROUP – Football Ukraine Cup" or "Kubok of Ukraine".  The Cup began with the Preliminary Round where teams from Druha Liha and Amateur Cup champions participate. In the Second Preliminary Round teams from Persha Liha are drawn into the competition and then in the Round of 32 teams from the Premier League enter the competition.  Tavriya Simferopol defeated Metalurh Donetsk 3–2 in the Cup Final and are Ukraine's Cup Winner representative in the play-off round of the UEFA Europa League 2010–11.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP] 2008–09 Ukrainian Cup  The 2008–09 Ukrainian Cup is the 18th annual season of Ukraine's football knockout competition, currently known as "DATAGROUP – Football Ukraine Cup", or "Kubok of Ukraine". The defending champion of this edition is Shakhtar Donetsk.  The Ukrainian Cup began with a preliminary round where teams from Druha Liha and Amateur Cup champions participated. In the second preliminary round, teams from Persha Liha were drawn into the competition and then in the round of 32 teams from Premier League entered the competition.  The winners of this competition will enter as Ukraine's cup winner representative in the play-off round of the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League. Since one of the finalists, Shakhtar Donetsk, has already qualified for European competitions for 2009–10 by virtue of their position in the Premier League, Vorskla Poltava automatically qualifies for the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP] Andriy Shevchenko  Andriy Mykolayovych Shevchenko, or Andrii Mykolaiovych Shevchenko (, ; born 29 September 1976) is a Ukrainian football manager, a former professional football player and a former politician. Shevchenko played as a striker for Dynamo Kyiv, AC Milan, Chelsea and the Ukraine national team. He was head coach of Serie A club Genoa. Shevchenko became the Vice President of the National Olympic Committee of Ukraine on the 17th of November 2022.  Shevchenko is considered one of the most lethal strikers to ever play the game. He is ranked as the seventh top goalscorer in all European competitions with 67 goals. With a tally of 175 goals scored for Milan, he is the second most prolific player in the history of the club, and is also the all-time top scorer of the "Derby della Madonnina" (the derby between Milan and their local rivals Inter Milan) with 14 goals. Furthermore, he is the all-time top scorer for the Ukrainian national team with 48 goals.  Shevchenko's career has been highlighted by many awards, the most prestigious of which was the Ballon d'Or in 2004 (becoming the third Ukrainian, after Oleg Blokhin and Igor Belanov, to receive it). He won the UEFA Champions League in 2003 with Milan, and he has also won various league and cup titles in Ukraine, Italy and England. He was also a Champions League runner-up in 2005 and 2008. He was named in the FIFA World XI for 2005. In 2004, he was named as one of the Top 100 greatest living footballers as part of FIFA's 100th anniversary celebration.  In his international career, the striker led Ukraine as captain to the quarter-finals in their first ever FIFA World Cup appearance in 2006, and also took part at UEFA Euro 2012 on home soil.   On 28 July 2012, Shevchenko announced that he was quitting football for politics.  He returned to football in 2016, as assistant coach of the Ukraine national team February to July, at the time led by Mykhaylo Fomenko. In July 2016, Shevchenko was appointed Ukraine's head coach, and led the nation to the quarter-finals at UEFA Euro 2020.
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP]
What sport does 2009 Ukrainian Cup Final play? [SEP] Henrikh Mkhitaryan  Henrikh Mkhitaryan (, ; born 21 January 1989) is an Armenian professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or winger for club Inter Milan.  Mkhitaryan won four Armenian Premier League titles with Pyunik, and joined Metalurh Donetsk in 2009; he moved to city rivals Shakhtar Donetsk in 2010 for €6.1 million. At Shakhtar, Mkhitaryan set the league goalscoring record in the 2012–13 season, and was named the league's Footballer of the Year. After also winning three domestic doubles, he signed for Bundesliga club Borussia Dortmund for a club-record fee of €27.5 million, making him the most expensive Armenian player of all time.   There, he won a DFL-Supercup in 2014, and in the following campaign, registered the most assists in the Bundesliga, with 15, the second most in Europe. He then joined Manchester United for £30 million (€34.3 million), becoming the first Armenian to play in the Premier League. He won the FA Community Shield, and scored the winner to win the UEFA Europa League title. Mkhitaryan's subsequent lukewarm form led him to sign for Arsenal in 2018, and then to Serie A club Roma on an initial loan. He signed permanently in 2020.  Mkhitaryan was a member of the senior side in his native country from 2007 until his international retirement in 2022. He is Armenia's all-time top goalscorer, scoring 32 goals in 95 matches, as well as registering their first hat-trick. He has been named Armenian Footballer of the Year ten times, being awarded the distinction every year since 2009 (with the exception of 2010 and 2018). Mkhitaryan was also voted the CIS Footballer of the Year in 2012 and 2013, making him the first Armenian footballer to be named the best player from post-Soviet countries.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP]  Krasen Trifonov (Bulgarian: Красен Трифонов; born 5 December 1983) is a Bulgarian football midfielder who plays for Pavlikeni.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP]  Alexandr Trifonov (born March 13, 1986) is a Kazakh biathlete. He competed in the 2010 Winter Olympics for Kazakhstan. His best finish was 18th, as part of the Kazakh relay team. He also finished 69th in the individual. As of February 2013, his best performance at the Biathlon World Championships, is 15th, in the 2012 men's relay. His best individual performance in a World Championships is 80th, in the 2012 sprint. As of February 2013, his best Biathlon World Cup finish is 15th, achieved in two men's relay events. His best individual finish is 53rd, in the 2010/11 sprint race at Östersund.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP]  Trifonov spent four seasons at Lokomotiv Gorna Oryahovitsa but was released in July 2017. In June 2018, he returned to the club following a short stint at Pavlikeni.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP] Aleksandr Trifonov (biathlete) (born 1986), Kazakh biathlete ; Aleksandr Trifonov (canoeist), Russian sprint canoeist ; Daniil Trifonov (born 1991), Russian concert pianist and composer ; Edward Trifonov (born 1937), Russian-born Israeli molecular biophysicist ; Filip Trifonov (born 1947), Bulgarian actor ; Iliyan Trifonov (born 1984), Bulgarian football player ; Ivan Trifonov (born 1948), Russian cyclist ; Kamen Trifonov (born 1990), Bulgarian football player ; Krasen Trifonov (born 1983), Bulgarian football midfielder ; Oleg Trifonov (born 1981), Russian football player ; Petar Trifonov (born 1984), Bulgarian football player ; Rumen Trifonov (born 1985), Bulgarian football player ; Slavi Trifonov (born 1966), Bulgarian actor, singer and politician ; Tihomir Trifonov (born 1986), Bulgarian football player ; Valentin Trifonov (1888–1938), Russian revolutionary ; Ventsislav Trifonov (born 1992), Bulgarian volleyball player ; Yury Trifonov (1925–1981), Russian author Trifonov (Трифонов) is a Bulgarian and Russian masculine surname, its feminine counterpart is Trifonova. It may refer to:
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP]  Trifonov started his football career with Etar 1924 before moving to Slavia Sofia in the year 2005. He made his A PFG debut for the Sofia-based club in August 2005, but did not become a regular to the end of the season and returned to Etar.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP] List of Bulgarian football transfers summer 2009  This is a list of Bulgarian football transfers in the summer transfer window of 2009, sorted by club. Only transfers of the A PFG clubs are listed.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP] 2018–19 Second Professional Football League (Bulgaria)  The 2018–19 Second League was the 64th season of the Second League, the second tier of the Bulgarian football league system, and the 3rd season under this name and current league structure. In June 2018, the Executive Committee of the Bulgarian Football Union decided to increase the participating teams to 18 for the 2019–20 season; as a result, only two teams will be relegated to Third League. The fixture list was released on 8 June 2018. The participating teams were confirmed on the same day. FC Tsarsko Selo Sofia became champions of the second league and were promoted directly to the first division. FC Dobrudzha Dobrich and PFC Nesebar were relegated.
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP]
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP] Etar Veliko Tarnovo was on 12 August 2012 against Montana where Etar Veliko Tarnovo won by a score of 3:2. On 29 November 2012 Trifonov signed a two-year and a half deal with Chernomorets Burgas. His contract was terminated mutually by his request on 30 June 2013 due to heavy injures. On 22 January 2017, Trifonov joined Moldovan club Zaria Bălți. In June 2018, Trifonov joined Lokomotiv Gorna Oryahovitsa. Tihomir Trifonov Tihomir Nikolaev Trifonov (; born 25 November 1986) is a Bulgarian footballer who plays as a defender for Lokomotiv Gorna Oryahovitsa. His teammates call him "Hero" because of its
What sport does Krasen Trifonov play? [SEP] Sports of Bulgaria, succeeding Evgenia Radanova. He retained his position when the Third Borisov Government was formed on 4 May 2017. Kralev is in a relationship with BTV host Viktoriya Petrova. In January 2017, Krassen Kralev presented his first solo paining exhibition. The profit has been donated to the “Bulgarian Sports” Foundation. In November 2017, Krassen Kralev has been elected as member of the Board of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA), representing the European Union. Krasen Kralev Krassen Kirilov Kralev (), born 2 January 1967 in Varna, is a Bulgarian businessman and politician, who is currently the Minister of Youth
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]  Lukáš Bodeček (born 25 April 1988) is a retired Czech footballer.
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]  In the summer 2017, Bodeček moved to TJ Sokol Čížová. He then moved to FK Kosoř. In addition, Bodeček also worked as a fitness coach for various of the youth teams at SK Slavia Prague since the summer 2017. As of 2020, he was still in this position at Slavia.
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]  Lukáš Ticháček (born 12 January 1982) is a Czech volleyball player of Polish citizenship, member of the Czech Republic men's national volleyball team, bronze medalist at the 2013 European League. On club level, he plays for Gwardia Wrocław, two–time Czech Champion (2001, 2021), five–time German Champion (2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011), three–time Polish Champion (2012, 2013, 2015).
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]  Lukáš Bokroš (born September 9, 1982) is a Slovak former professional ice hockey left winger. Bokroš played six games for HC Zlín of the Czech Extraliga during the 2006–07 season. He also played in the Tipsport Liga for HK Dukla Trenčín, HKM Zvolen, MHC Martin and MHK Dubnica as well as in the Ligue Magnus for Ours de Villard-de-Lans. Bokroš played in the 2000 IIHF World U18 Championships for Slovakia.
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]  Lukáš Paukovček (born 13 November 1990) is a Slovak professional ice hockey player who currently plays professionally in Slovakia for HK Dukla Trenčín of the Slovak Extraliga.
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP]
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP] Challenge. On February 8, 2012, he was signed by the Missouri Mavericks of the Central Hockey League for the remainder of their 2011-12 season. On October 19, 2012, he signed with BK Mladá Boleslav. Lukáš Bohunický Lukáš Bohunický (born October 30, 1987) is a Slovak professional ice hockey defenceman. He is currently playing for Motor České Budějovice of the 1st Czech Republic Hockey League. Bohunický has played professionally for HC Slovan Bratislava in the Slovak Extraliga and HK Ruzinov 99 Bratislava in Slovak 2.Liga. He spent his Junior Hockey career playing two seasons for the Kootenay Ice of the Canadian
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP] and in 2007 he joined AaB Ishockey where he serveed as backup to Peter Hirsch. He returned to Vsetín in 2008 and played for the team till 2016. Lukáš Plšek Lukáš Plšek (born 15 September 1983) is a Czech ice hockey goaltender. Plšek began his career with HC Vsetín playing in the under-18 and under-20 league before moving to the full squad. He spent six seasons with Vsetín, where he was mostly a backup goalie, only playing 21 games in total. He also played for various second tier teams in aid of development. In 2005 he moved to Zlín but
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP] Václav Karabáček Václav Karabáček (born May 2, 1996) is a Czech professional ice hockey right wing who currently plays for Motor České Budějovice of the 1st Czech Republic Hockey League on loan from Mountfield HK of the Czech Extraliga (ELH). He was drafted in the second round, 49th overall, by the Buffalo Sabres in the 2014 NHL Entry Draft. Karabáček played the first game of the 2014 NHL preseason with the Sabres before being sent back to the QMJHL. After playing one preseason game for the team in the 2015 NHL preseason as well, he was again sent back to
What sport does Lukáš Bodeček play? [SEP] Lukas Vejdemo Lukas Vejdemo (born 25 January 1996) is a Swedish professional ice hockey forward. He is currently playing with the Laval Rocket in the American Hockey League (AHL) while under contract as a prospect to the Montreal Canadiens of the National Hockey League (NHL). Vejdemo was selected by the Canadiens in the 3rd round (87th overall) of the 2015 NHL Entry Draft. Vejdemo made his Swedish Hockey League debut playing with Djurgårdens IF during the 2014–15 SHL season. In the 2017–18 season, Vejdemo established career highs of 10 goals and 22 assists in 47 games. On May 2, 2018,
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] Assist Goals Last Update  18 September 2010
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP]  Ebrahim Asadi (, born June 8, 1979) is a retired Iranian footballer who played for Persepolis.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP]  He began playing football in 1973 in Sepahan. Then he played for Isfahan XI between 1974 and 1975.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP]  Ebrahim Fathi oregani  (born September 21, 1982) is an Iranian wushu athlete. Ebrahim Fathi with his two teammates of Iran Duilian group, Mohsen Ahmadi and Navid Makvandi, have attended several world championship events and introduced Iran as the first contender of this sub-division in Wushu world.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP]  Omid Ebrahimi was discovered by Amir Ghalenoei in 2011. He started his career in Esteghlal Dargahan. He joined Sepahan in 2010 after spending the previous season at Shahrdari Bandar Abbas in the Azadegan League. Ebrahimi's first competitive appearance came in the Iran Pro League match against Rah Ahan on 27 July 2010, where he played the full 90 minutes. On 10 June 2014, Ebrahimi signed a two-year contract with Esteghlal. He spent an excellent career in Blues of the Capital and selected as the best midfielder of Persian Gulf Pro League in 2015–16 and 2016–17 seasons and also became the best goalscorer among midfielders in the history of Esteghlal.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] Persepolis F.C.–Sepahan S.C. rivalry  The rivalry between Persepolis and Sepahan is a footballing rivalry played between Iranian clubs Persepolis and Sepahan.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] List of Persepolis F.C. seasons  This is a list of seasons played by Persepolis Football Club in Iranian and Asian football, from 1963 to the most recent completed season. It details the club's achievements in major competitions, and the top scorers for each season. Top scorers in bold were also the top scorers in the Iranian league that season.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] List of Iranians  This is an alphabetic list of notable people from Iran or its historical predecessors.   Abolfazl emam gholi nezhad he is a gold designer and making gawerly and modeling   He is live in iran,mazandaran,fereydonkenar   His username at the instagram: @abolfazl.em.pv
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] Persepolis F.C.–Tractor S.C. rivalry  The rivalry between Persepolis and Tractor is a footballing rivalry played between Iranian clubs Persepolis and Tractor.
What sport does Ebrahim Asadi play? [SEP] Persepolis F.C. Academy  Persepolis Football Club Academy are the youth team of Persepolis Football Club. They currently play in the AFC Vision Asia Youth Premier League, the highest level of youth football in Iran.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP]  Jean Gilbert Bayaram (born July 7, 1974) is a Mauritian football player who currently plays for Pamplemousses SC in the Mauritian Premier League and for the Mauritius national football team as a midfielder. He is featured on the Mauritian national team in the official 2010 FIFA World Cup video game.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP]  Walter John Gilbert  (December 19, 1900 – September 7, 1958) was an American athlete who performed in professional baseball, football and basketball. Over his career, Gilbert played in Major League Baseball from 1928 to 1932 as a third baseman with the Brooklyn Robins and the Cincinnati Reds. In addition, he played in the National Football League from 1923 to 1926 for the Duluth Kelleys/Eskimos, as well as for the Buffalo Germans, Denver Tigers and Two Harbors All-Stars basketball squads.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP]  Gilbert played four seasons (2007-2011) of major junior hockey in the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) where he scored 70 goals and 86 assists for 156 points in 209 games played. In 2009 Gilbert was selected to play in the CHL Top Prospects Game. Gilbert made his professional debut in the American Hockey League with the Rockford IceHogs during the 2009–10 season. On May 31, 2011, the Chicago Blackhawks signed Gilbert to a three-year entry-level contract. On August 19, 2014, the Orlando Solar Bears of the ECHL announced that they had signed Gilbert as an unrestricted free agent. After attending AHL affiliate, the Toronto Marlies training camp, Gilbert was traded prior to the 2014–15 season, by the Solar Bears to the Wheeling Nailers on October 16, 2014. A free agent following the 2015–16 season with the Kalamazoo Wings, Gilbert signed abroad in France, agreeing to a one-year deal with Boxers de Bordeaux of the Magnus on July 18, 2016.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP]  Matthew Ian Gilbert (born 9 October 1985) is an English rugby union footballer currently playing at Flanker and number eight for Cinderford. He previously played for Hartpury University, Bath and Worcester Warriors. As well as Llanelli Scarlets in the Pro 14 and European Cup. He is the only deaf professional sportsman in England. Mat has worn hearing aids Since he was a child, and now wears Phonak aids. He works as a celebrity ambassador for Phonak, as well as an ambassador for the charity, Action on Hearing Loss helping to raise awareness of hearing loss. He has played 11 times for the England Deaf rugby team - www.englanddeafrugby.com
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP]  Gilbert Benausse (born 21 January 1932 in Carcassonne – died 24 November 2006 in Carcassonne) was a French rugby league footballer who played in the 1950s and 1960s. He played at the international level for France, and at club level for AS Carcassonne, Lézignan Sangliers and Toulouse Olympique, playing at, or , i.e. number 3 or 5, 6, or 7.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP] 1968–69 AHL season  The 1968–69 AHL season was the 33rd season of the American Hockey League. Eight teams played 74 games each in the schedule. The Buffalo Bisons finished first overall in the regular season. The Hershey Bears won their fourth Calder Cup championship.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP] Cesare Maniago  Cesare Maniago (born January 13, 1939) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey goaltender. Maniago played the majority of his National Hockey League (NHL) career for the Minnesota North Stars, for whom he stands second all-time in games played in goal.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP] 1966–67 AHL season  The 1966–67 AHL season was the 31st season of the American Hockey League. Nine teams played 72 games each in the schedule. The Pittsburgh Hornets finished first overall in the regular season, and won their first Calder Cup championship since being resurrected in 1961–62. It would also be the final season for Pittsburgh in the AHL, replaced by the NHL's Penguins the next season.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP] 1972–73 AHL season  The 1972–73 AHL season was the 37th season of the American Hockey League. Twelve teams played 76 games each in the schedule. The Cincinnati Swords finished first overall in the regular season, and won the Calder Cup championship.
What sport does Jeannot Gilbert play? [SEP] Minneapolis Bruins  The Minneapolis Bruins were a minor league professional ice hockey team in the Central Professional Hockey League (CPHL) from 1963 to 1965.  The Bruins were one of the original five teams to enter the newly formed CPHL. Minneapolis operated as a farm team to the National Hockey League's Boston Bruins. The team originated as the Kingston Frontenacs of the Eastern Professional Hockey League, which transferred to the new CPHL essentially intact after the demise of the EPHL in 1963. The Minneapolis Bruins played two season in the league, then in 1965, the team relocated to Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, where it continued as the Oklahoma City Blazers until 1977.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP]  Roland Repiský (born 30 May 1990) is a Slovak football goalkeeper who currently plays for the Slovak Corgoň Liga club MFK Košice.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP]  Repiský began his senior career with Pohronie competing in the Slovak top division, after returning from a loan spell in the youth teams of Slovan Bratislava. He moved to replace departing Czech goalkeeper Matěj Luksch as a back-up goalkeeper to Tomáš Jenčo. Repiský made his Fortuna Liga debut in the premier round of the 2020–21 season, in an away fixture at ViOn Aréna against ViOn Zlaté Moravce, being preferred over Jenčo due to his shoulder injury. Repiský had a bad start to the match, conceding two goals in three minutes from Martin Kovaľ and Tomáš Ďubek. Pohronie however moved to equalise the game in the second half through late goals by Alieu Fadera and a free-kick goal by James Weir.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP]  Řepík competed for the Czech Republic's under-20 team at the 2007 World Junior Championships in Sweden. He failed to register a point in six games as the Czechs were eliminated in the quarter-finals by Sweden. Poised to make a second appearance at the World Junior Championships in 2008 in his home country, Řepík was unable to participate due to a concussion suffered in the month preceding the tournament.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP]  Martina Repiská (born 21 October 1995) is a Slovak badminton player. She started playing badminton at the age of nine in her hometown, then playing competitively in the junior international tournament when she was twelve. She became the member of the national team in 2009, and won her first international title at the 2017 Morocco International tournament. Repiská competed at the 2019 European Games.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP]  Prior to his professional career, Repik played major junior in the Western Hockey League (WHL). He spent three seasons with the Vancouver Giants, helping the team to a Presidents' Cup as WHL champions in 2006 and a Memorial Cup as Canadian Hockey League (CHL) champions in 2007. During the Giants' 2007 playoff season, he led the WHL and Memorial Cup tournaments in scoring. Selected 40th overall in the 2007 NHL Entry Draft by the Panthers, Repik turned professional in 2008–09 with the team's American Hockey League (AHL) affiliate.
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP] He retired while a member of the Revolution in 2016. Jason Repko Jason Edward Repko (born December 27, 1980) is an American former professional baseball outfielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Los Angeles Dodgers, Minnesota Twins and Boston Red Sox. Repko attended Hanford High School in Richland, Washington, and was a letterman in baseball. As a senior, he posted a .581 batting average with 18 home runs and 14 stolen bases. He also clocked a 94 MPH fastball from the mound. A High School All-American infielder, he was drafted by the Los Angeles Dodgers in the
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP] his favourite position to play is right wing; he sometimes plays as an outfielder in training and coaching staff have suggested that he switch to a midfield role. Žilina Martin Dúbravka Martin Dúbravka (; born 15 February 1989) is a Slovakian professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for Newcastle United and the Slovakia national football team. As a child, Dúbravka enjoyed playing ice hockey as well as football, and could have moved into the former sport were it not for a leg injury he sustained when he was five years old. Dúbravka made his senior team debut in a
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP] 1999, his only point as a Thrasher. He has also had spells in the Swedish Elitserien for AIK Hockey and the Russian Super League for Avangard Omsk Oblast and Khimik Voskresensk. He won a Gold Medal with the Czech Republic in the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan. Procházka also won the World Championships four times with the Czech Republic, in 1996, 1999, 2000 and 2001. He also won the Czech Extraliga with HC Vsetín in 1999. Martin Procházka Martin Procházka (, born March 3, 1972 in Slaný, Czechoslovakia) is a retired professional ice hockey player who played for HC
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP] scoring pace in the CHL tournament, earning the Ed Chynoweth Trophy as the Memorial Cup's leading scorer. The Giants met the Tigers once more in the Memorial Cup Final and defeated them to win the national title. In the subsequent 2007 NHL Entry Draft, he was drafted in the 2nd round, 40th overall, by the Florida Panthers. At mid-season, he had been ranked 46th among draft-eligible skaters playing in North America by Central Scouting Services. Upon being drafted, Řepík returned to the WHL for a third and final season with Vancouver and scored a junior career high 61 points. He
What sport does Roland Repiský play? [SEP] in the 2006/2007 season. He was selected as flag bearer for Puerto Rico in the 2007 edition in Rio de Janeiro, when he was the tournament's Best Scorer and helped his team reach the fifth place. Soto is nicknamed "Picky". Serving as the team captain Soto was named the tournament's Best Scorer at the 2007 NORCECA Championship, finishing with 104 points on 94 spikes, five blocks and five aces. On June 25, 2008, Soto announced that he would take part in a promotional campaign for Gatorade. Soto played the 2007–08 and the 2008–09 Russian Super League with Lokomotiv Novosibirsk. Soto
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP]  Nigel Marples (born November 3, 1985) is a Canadian football player and coach.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP]  After his return in summer 2013 to Canada, was named as Head coach of the Roman Tulis European Soccer School of Excellence. Since October 2013 works besides his coaching career by the Roman Tulis Soccer School, as Player-Coach of the BC Premier Soccer League side Fusion FC in Richmond. Marples studied Masters in Coaching Education over distance learning on the Ohio University. He is currently the Head Soccer Coach at the Principia School (2017).
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP]  Marples attended North Delta High School and played college soccer at Towson University, where he was a four-year starter and two year captain. During his college years he also played with the Abbotsford Rangers in the USL Premier Development League.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP]  Marples joined the professional ranks after graduation with the Vancouver Whitecaps of USL First Division, but only appeared in 2 matches and was released. He then turned to indoor soccer after being drafted by the Philadelphia KiXX. He appeared in 27 games before moving back outdoors with USL Second Division Harrisburg City Islanders, and then on to the Charleston Battery in 2009. Marples joined HB Køge from the Danish 1st Division on 9 August 2012. He left the club in summer 2013 and returned to Vancouver.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP]  Marples has also spent time in the Canadian U-20 player pool, but has yet to be capped.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP] Nigel Harman  Nigel Derek Harman (born 11 August 1973) is an English actor, best known for his role as Dennis Rickman in the BBC soap opera "EastEnders". He has worked mostly in theatre. He starred in the final series of "Hotel Babylon". In early 2013 he started filming for the fourth series of "Downton Abbey", playing visiting valet, Mr Green. From 2013 until the series ended in 2017, he played the role of Bradley Dawson in Sky One's "Mount Pleasant". He appeared as Lloyd in Series 4 of "Cuckoo".  In the theatre, he has played various musical roles including Sky Masterson in Michael Grandage's revival of "Guys and Dolls" and Lord Farquaad in the original London production of "Shrek the Musical" for which he received an Olivier Award for his performance.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP] Marples  Marples is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP] Towson Tigers  The Towson Tigers, formerly the Towson College Knights, are the athletics teams of Towson University. All of the major athletic teams compete in the Colonial Athletic Association with 19 Division I athletic teams (13 in women's sports, 6 in men's sports). Gymnastics competes in the EAGL conference, having rejoined the league in the Spring of 2012.  Since joining the CAA in 2001–02, the Tigers have won 16 league championships; the Tigers have won titles in football, baseball, men's lacrosse, women's lacrosse, men's soccer, men's golf, women's swimming and diving, and volleyball. In addition, the women's gymnastics program has captured six ECAC Championships over the last eight years (2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010).  During an athletics history that traces its roots to the 1920s, Towson has sent teams and individual student-athletes to NCAA post-season competition in baseball, basketball, football, golf, gymnastics, lacrosse, soccer, swimming, track & field and volleyball.  In May 2011, the department broke ground on the SECU Arena, a new 5000-seat, state-of-the-art arena for basketball, volleyball and gymnastics. The arena was completed in May 2013 and opened in June 2013.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP] Sleeping Murder  Sleeping Murder: Miss Marple's Last Case is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in October 1976 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed for £3.50<ref name="CC"/> and the US edition for $7.95.<ref name="US"/>  The book features Miss Marple. Released posthumously, it was the last published Christie novel, although not the last Miss Marple novel in order of writing. The story is explicitly set in 1944 but the first draft of the novel had been written even earlier than this during the Second World War. She aids a young couple who choose to uncover events in the wife's past life, and not let sleeping murder lie.
What sport does Nigel Marples play? [SEP] Westminster School  Westminster School is a public school in Westminster, London, England, in the precincts of Westminster Abbey. It derives from a charity school founded by Westminster Benedictines before the 1066 Norman Conquest, as documented by the Croyland Chronicle and a charter of King Offa. Continuous existence is clear from the early 14th century. Its academic results place it among the top schools nationally; about half its students go to Oxbridge, giving it the highest national Oxbridge acceptance rate. Boys join Under School at seven and Senior School at 13 by examination. Girls join the Sixth Form at 16. About a quarter of the 750 pupils board. Weekly boarders may go home after Saturday morning school. The school motto, "Dat Deus Incrementum", quotes 1 Corinthians 3:6: "I planted the seed... but God made it grow." Westminster was one of nine schools examined by the 1861 Clarendon Commission and reformed by the Public Schools Act 1868.  The school has produced three Nobel laureates: Edgar Adrian (Nobel Prize for Physiology in 1932), Sir Andrew Huxley (likewise in 1963) and Sir Richard Stone (Nobel Prize in Economics in 1984). Six UK prime ministers attended, all belonging to the Whig or Liberal factions of British politics: Henry Pelham and his brother the Duke of Newcastle, the Marquess of Rockingham, the Duke of Grafton, the Duke of Portland, and Lord John Russell.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]  Marc Santo-Roman (born 13 September 1960) is a French chess grandmaster, born in Toulouse.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]  According to Chessmetrics, at his peak in October 1991 Santo-Roman's play was equivalent to a rating of 2557, and he was ranked number 317 in the world. His best single performance was at FRA-ch Angers, 1990, where he scored 11 of 14 possible points (79%) against 2462-rated opposition, for a performance rating of 2644. On the April 2009 FIDE list his Elo rating is 2392.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]  He won three French Chess Championship at Angers 1990, Montpellier 1991, and Chambéry 1994 and played for France in the 29th Chess Olympiad at Novi Sad 1990, 30th Chess Olympiad at Manila 1992 and in the 31st Chess Olympiad at Moscow 1994. Santo-Roman was awarded the International Master title in 1984 and the Grandmaster title in 1996.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]  In 2011, Marc signed with the Cougars de Saint-Ouen l'Aumône, France. The Cougars play in the highest level of competition in France (Division 1).
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]  In 2012 he joined Dallas Stars which he helped by winning the USA Hockey Sled Classic Division A Championship. From 2011 till now he serves on the United States National Sled Hockey Team and was a winner of the 2013 USA Hockey Sled Cup. In November 2011 he became a silver medal recipient at the IPC World Sledge Hockey Challenge and next year won gold at the same place, following by another silver in 2013. In 2012 he was awarded with a gold medal by winning the International Paralympic Committee Ice Sledge Hockey World Championship and next year won a silver one at the same place. Prior to sled hockey he was quoted saying: "They asked me to come out and play sled hockey, and I was like, I don't come from a hockey state. I'm from Oregon. We don't play hockey there. How many Hispanics do you see playing hockey?" In 2014 he got another gold medal, this time at Sochi Paralympics.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP] Marc Crosas  Marc Crosas Luque (born 9 January 1988) is a Spanish retired professional footballer who played as a defensive midfielder. Crosas is also a football analyst for Univision Deportes. He is a Mexican naturalized citizen.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP] Romeo Santos  Anthony "Romeo" Santos (born July 21, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, record producer and actor who is best known as the frontman and lead vocalist of the bachata group Aventura. In 2002, the song "Obsesión" reached number one in Italy for 16 consecutive weeks. He released several albums with Aventura before the group broke up. Since then, Santos has embarked on a solo career which has spawned seven number one songs on the Hot Latin Songs chart and seventeen number ones on the Tropical Songs chart. Over his career, he sold over 40 million albums and over 100 million singles.
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP] Santos (surname)  Santos is a surname of Christian origin in Portuguese and Spanish languages. The English translation of Santos is "Saints". A singular version, "Santo", may be seen.  The "dos Santos" (English: 'of the saints') variation in Portugal and Galicia was commonly given to a baby born or baptised around All Saints’ Day. <REF></REF>  Near the close of the nineteenth century and at the end of the Brazilian Empire, the abolition of slavery in Brazil led to the rise in the name's usage within slave communities, Santos becoming a common surname in area of the Bay of All Saints. A Portuguese slave with no surname, for example, might take the name Santos upon the abolition of slavery and subsequently earning his freedom; this would indicate that he was of Bahian origin. The surname was also used as a way to shorten the names of Brazilians, for example: Manuel da Bahia de Todos os Santos (en: Manuel of the Bay of All Saints).  Other Iberian grammatical forms include: De Santo, De Santos, Del Santo, Santi, Santis, Santiz, Senti, Sentis and others. Famous individuals with the surname Santos include:
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP]
What sport does Marc Santo-Roman play? [SEP] Antony and Cleopatra  Antony and Cleopatra (First Folio title: The Tragedie of Anthonie, and Cleopatra) is a tragedy by William Shakespeare. The play was first performed, by the King's Men, at either the Blackfriars Theatre or the Globe Theatre in around 1607; its first appearance in print was in the Folio of 1623.  The plot is based on Thomas North's 1579 English translation of Plutarch's "Lives" (in Ancient Greek) and follows the relationship between Cleopatra and Mark Antony from the time of the Sicilian revolt to Cleopatra's suicide during the War of Actium. The main antagonist is Octavius Caesar, one of Antony's fellow triumvirs of the Second Triumvirate and the first emperor of the Roman Empire. The tragedy is mainly set in the Roman Republic and Ptolemaic Egypt and is characterized by swift shifts in geographical location and linguistic register as it alternates between sensual, imaginative Alexandria and a more pragmatic, austere Rome.  Many consider Shakespeare's Cleopatra, whom Enobarbus describes as having "infinite variety", as one of the most complex and fully developed female characters in the playwright's body of work. It is difficult to classify "Antony and Cleopatra" as belonging to a single genre. It can be described as a history play (though it does not completely adhere to historical accounts), as a tragedy (though not completely in Aristotelian terms), as a comedy, as a romance, and according to some critics, such as McCarter, a problem play. All that can be said with certainty is that it is a Roman play, and perhaps even a sequel to another of Shakespeare's tragedies, "Julius Caesar".
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP]  Sandar Idrettslag is a sports club from Sandar, Sandefjord, Norway. It was founded on 24 September 1931 as Framnes IL, but the name Sandar IL was taken already on 13 October 1931. The club has sections for association football and handball, and the team colors are red, black and white. Footballer Jon Midttun Lie played for Sandar IL from age 13 to age 16. In 2008 Lie's then-team Lillestrøm SK faced Sandar in the first round of the Norwegian Cup. Sandar also met another team from Tippeligaen in the first round of the cup in 2007, but lost 5-0 against Sandefjord Fotball. The men's team played in the Third Division, the fourth tier of Norwegian football, but controversially forfeited after three games of the 2010 season. In 2011, Sandar played in the Fourth Division, but was relegated to the Fifth Division. Terese Pedersen has played handball for Sandar.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP]  Sander Idrettslag is a Norwegian multi-sports club from Sander, Hedmark. It has sections for association football and Nordic skiing. The club was founded in 1920. The men's football team plays in the 4. divisjon, the fifth tier of Norwegian football. It was a mainstay in the 3. divisjon from 1998 to 2010 and later had two shorter stints in 2012–2014 and 2016. Sander's proximity to the city of Kongsvinger meant that several players featured for Sander before or after playing for Kongsvinger IL, including Norway international Martin Linnes.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP]  The men's football team currently plays in the 4. divisjon, the fifth tier of the Norwegian football league system. They have never played in the top tier, but had its last stint in the 1. divisjon (second tier) in 1997, with players like Morten Fevang who later became a significant player in the top division and captain of Odd Grenland. In late 1998, Runar formed the elite football team Sandefjord Fotball with local rivals Sandefjord BK, in an attempt to take Sandefjord back to the top level of football in Norway. The plan succeeded, as Sandefjord Fotball, as of the 2019 season, have been playing in the top flight in 7 out of the last 14 seasons.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP]  Idrettslaget Runar is a Norwegian sports club from Haukerød in Sandefjord. It has sections for athletics, handball, football, and cross-country skiing. It was established on January 7, 1949.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP]  Midttun Lie lived in Haukeli until he was 12, where he played football for IL Rein. Midttun Lie moved with his family to Sandefjord in 1992 and started to play football for the local club Sandar IL at the age of 13 after a short spell at Helgerød IL. He later joined Sandefjord BK, where he played for the first team. When Sandefjord BK and IL Runar merged ahead of the 1999 season, Midttun Lie joined the new team Sandefjord Fotball.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP] Sandar IL  Sandar Idrettslag is a sports club from Sandar, Sandefjord, Norway.  It was founded on 24 September 1931 as "Framnes IL", but the name "Sandar IL" was taken already on 13 October 1931. The club has sections for association football and handball, and the team colors are red, black and white.  Footballer Jon Midttun Lie played for Sandar IL from age 13 to age 16. In 2008 Lie's then-team Lillestrøm SK faced Sandar in the first round of the Norwegian Cup. Sandar also met another team from Tippeligaen in the first round of the cup in 2007, but lost 5–0 against Sandefjord Fotball.  The men's team played in the Third Division, the fourth tier of Norwegian football, but controversially forfeited after three games of the 2010 season. In 2011, Sandar played in the Fourth Division, but was relegated to the Fifth Division.  Terese Pedersen has played handball for Sandar.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP] Jon Midttun Lie  Jon Midttun Lie (born 10 December 1980) is a Norwegian former footballer. During his professional career he played for Sandefjord, Start, Lillestrøm and Sogndal. Midttun Lie played one match for Norway U19 in 1999, and has also played futsal for Sandefjord Futsal.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP] Sandefjord  Sandefjord () is a city and the most populous municipality in Vestfold og Telemark county, Norway. The municipality of Sandefjord was established on 1 January 1838. The municipality of Sandar was merged into Sandefjord on 1 January 1969. On 1 January 2017, rural municipalities of Andebu and Stokke were merged into Sandefjord as part of a nationwide municipal reform. This merger was the first one to take place during the reform.  The city is known for its rich Viking history and the prosperous whaling industry, which made Sandefjord the richest city in Norway. Today, it has built up the third-largest merchant fleet in Norway. It is home to Europe's only museum dedicated to whaling, and is home to Gokstad Mound where the 9th century Gokstad Ship was discovered.  Sandefjord has numerous nicknames, including the Viking, Whaling "capital" of Norway or as the undisputed summer city of Norway. The city is also known as the "whaling capital of the world." It has also been dubbed the "Bathing City" (Badebyen), due to its many beaches and former resort spas. It is still considered a resort town, due to high numbers of visitors during summer months.  Sandefjord has become a transportation hub, home of Torp International Airport, one of Norway's largest airports. Daily ferry connections to Sweden are provided by "Fjord Line" and "Color Line" from the city harbor. European Route E18, one of Norway's most important roads, traverses the municipality.  Sandefjord is a stronghold for the Conservative Party; the Conservative coalition received over 70 percent of votes cast in 2011. Current mayor is Bjørn Ole Gleditsch from the Conservative Party, who has been mayor since 2004.
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP] Sandefjord Upper Secondary School  Sandefjord Upper Secondary School (, often abbreviated to SVGS) is a public upper secondary school in Sandefjord, Vestfold, Norway. It is the largest secondary school in Norway.  It is housed in two-story facilities which are located at Krokemoa near the Bugårds Park. It is an International Baccalaureate World School, but it also offers general academics (the college preparatory "studiespesialisering" of the Norwegian school system), as well as elite sports, vocational education, and more.  It is located across the road from a "Meny" supermarket, and is few meters from Bugårdsparken. The school is home to several student-run businesses, including a bakery, hair salon and an eatery known as "Restaurant Barden".<ref name="auto"/> The school has about 2,000 students and 350 employees.<ref name="vfk.no"/>
What sport does Sandar IL play? [SEP] Sandra Smith (reporter)  Sandra Kaye Smith  (born on September 22, 1980) is a business and news reporter currently serving as co-anchor of "America Reports" on the Fox News Channel (FNC) in New York City. She is originally from Wheaton, Illinois, and ran track and field while an undergraduate at Louisiana State University.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP]  club captain. On June 13, 2002, he was named for the first time in his career to the A-League Team of the Week. Early on in the season he was invited to a trial in Norway with Sogndal Fotball. His trial was a success and was offered a contract by the First Division club. In his debut season with Sogndal he was named the club's player of the year, and played a total of 70 matches and scored six goals. In 2006. after Sogndal were relegated to Norwegian First Division he signed a contract with Aalborg BK of the
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP]  Marco Reda (born June 22, 1977) is a Canadian former soccer player who began his professional career in the USL A-League with the Toronto Lynx where he developed his skills as a solid defender. This led to his transfer to Europe to sign with Sogndal, where he would eventually have a tenure in Scandinavia for six years. Reda would return to Toronto, this time to sign with expansion franchise Toronto FC, and would conclude his career in the USL First Division. He also played at the indoor level in the National Professional Soccer League with the Toronto ThunderHawks in 2000–2001. After his retirement from competitive soccer he briefly served as an assistant coach in the Canadian Soccer League with SC Toronto in 2012, and later became a teacher for Hudson College.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP]  In July 2015 Francesco Reda, tested positive for EPO in an anti-doping control that was taken at the Italian Road Championships held on June 27. In February 2016, Reda was banned for eight years.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP]  Reda began his career at the college level with Winthrop University from 1996 to 1997. He went professional in 1998, after Peter Pinizzotto head coach of the Toronto Lynx signed him to a contract. In 1999, he was named the team captain for the club, and won the team's best defensive player award. In 2000, the captain assisted his franchise in qualifying for the postseason for the second time in the club's history. Toronto would finish third in the Northeast Division. In the playoffs the Lynx faced Richmond Kickers in the first round, and advanced to the next round by
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP]  Reda made his debut for Canada in a February 2005 friendly match against Northern Ireland and has earned a total of 7 caps, scoring 1 goal. He has a non-playing squad member at the 2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup. His final international was a January 2008 friendly match against Martinique. He also played with the Canada men's national under-23 soccer team where he was selected for the 1999 Pan American Games.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP] Reda (surname)  Reda is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP] 2012 Omega Pharma–Quick-Step season  The 2012 season for began in January at the Tour Down Under. As a UCI ProTeam, they were automatically invited and obligated to send a squad to every event in the UCI World Tour.  At the end of the 2011 season, Omega Pharma parted company with co-sponsors Lotto after seven seasons together, and later rejoined the former Quick Step team; announcing a deal prior to their split with Lotto, in August.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP] List of Italian Canadians  This is a list of notable Italian Canadians who have been established in Canada. This list takes into account the entire Canadian population, which consists of Canadian citizens (by birth and by naturalization), landed immigrants and non-permanent residents and their families living with them in Canada as per the census.
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP] List of doping cases in cycling  The following is an incomplete list of doping cases and recurring accusations of doping in professional cycling, where doping means "use of physiological substances or abnormal method to obtain an artificial increase of performance."<ref name="Vittozzi"/> It is neither a list of shame nor a list of illegality, as the first laws were not passed until 1965 and their implementation is an ongoing developing process. Thus the list contains doping incidents, those who have tested positive for illegal performance-enhancing drugs, prohibited recreational drugs or have been suspended by a sports governing body for failure to submit to mandatory drug testing. It also contains and clarifies cases where subsequent evidence and explanation has shown the parties to be innocent of illegal practice.  In 1963, the Council of Europe gave the following definition of doping: "Doping is the administration to a normal subject in any possible way of a foreign agent or abnormal quantities of physiological substances with the sole purpose of increasing artificially and in an unfair manner the performance of the subject participating in a contest."  The International Olympic Committee slightly modified this, and adopted this definition: "The administration of or use by a competing athlete of any substance foreign to the body or any physiologic substance taken in abnormal quantity or taken by an abnormal route of entry into the body with the sole intention of increasing in an artificial and unfair manner his/her performance in competition. When necessity demands medical treatment with any substance which, because of its nature, dosage, or application is able to boost the athlete's performance in competition in an artificial and unfair manner, this too is regarded as doping."<ref name="Wadler 01"/>
What sport does Francesco Reda play? [SEP] OGC Nice  Olympique Gymnaste Club Nice Côte d'Azur (), commonly referred to as OGC Nice or simply Nice, is a French professional football club based in Nice. The club was founded in 1904 and currently plays in Ligue 1, the top tier of French football. Nice plays its home matches at the Allianz Riviera.  Nice was founded under the name "Gymnaste Club de Nice" and is one of the founding members of the first division of French football. The club has won Ligue 1 four times, the Trophee des Champions one time and the Coupe de France three times. It achieved most of its honours in the 1950s with the club being managed by coaches such as Numa Andoire, Englishman William Berry, and Jean Luciano. The club's last honour was winning the Coupe de France in 1997 after defeating Guingamp 4–3 on penalties in the final. Nice's colours are red and black.  During the club's successful run in the 1950s, Nice were among the first French clubs to successfully integrate internationals players into the fold. Notable players include Héctor De Bourgoing, Pancho Gonzales, Victor Nurenberg, and Joaquín Valle, the latter being the club's all-time leading goalscorer and arguably greatest player.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP]  Pedro Ferreira-Mendes (born May 13, 1990) is a Brazilian footballer who most recently played for Puerto Rico FC of the North American Soccer League. He has previously played for the Atlanta Silverbacks, Indy Eleven, and Minnesota United FC in the NASL.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP]  In December 2013, Ferreira-Mendes signed for North American Soccer League side Indy Eleven. On August 15, 2014, Ferreira-Mendes moved from Indy Eleven to fellow NASL side Minnesota United FC. On July 8, 2015, Ferreira-Mendes signed, along with his twin brother Paulo, with the Atlanta Silverbacks. Ferreira-Mendes was released by Puerto Rico FC at the end of their 2016 season.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP]  Pedro Rafael Amado Mendes (born 6 December 1993) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder and is currently a free agent.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP]  Born in Guimarães, Mendes played youth football for four different clubs, including two spells with local Vitória Sport Clube. He made his senior debut in 2009 with Gondomar S.C. in the third level and, after two seasons, signed with Cypriot Second Division team Doxa Katokopias FC. In the summer of 2012, Mendes joined PSFC Chernomorets Burgas. His input for the Bulgarians consisted of 22 minutes in a 1–3 away loss against PFC Lokomotiv Sofia for the Bulgarian Cup, and he was released at the end of the campaign. In the following years, Mendes competed in the Portuguese third tier, with F.C. Lixa and Varzim SC.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP]  On 26 October 2020, it was confirmed that Mendes had signed with Hong Kong Premier League club Southern. On 21 May 2021, Mendes left the club due to injury.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP] 2012 Atlanta Silverbacks season  The 2012 Atlanta Silverbacks season will be the club's sixteenth season of existence, and their second consecutive season playing in the North American Soccer League (NASL), the second tier of the American soccer pyramid. The Silverbacks will be trying to rebound from the 2011 campaign that saw the club finish at the bottom of the regular season standings.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP] List of North American Soccer League transfers 2016  This is a list of soccer transfers for the 2016 North American Soccer League season.  This list includes all transfers made after clubs played their last match of the 2015 NASL season and before they played their last match of the 2016 NASL season.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP] Jorge Mendes  Jorge Paulo Agostinho Mendes (born 7 January 1966) is a Portuguese football agent. He is registered with the Portuguese Football Federation and heads the GestiFute company, founded in 1996. Mendes is among the most influential football agents in the world, with clients including David de Gea, José Mourinho, Diego Costa, James Rodríguez, João Félix and Cristiano Ronaldo. Outside of football, he represents clients such as Formula 1 star Charles Leclerc, triple jump champion Patricia Mamona, surfer Frederico Morais, tennis player João Sousa and the cyclist João Almeida. Mendes is often referred to as a "super-agent".   Mendes has been named "Best Agent of the Year" at the Globe Soccer Awards ten times, from 2010 to 2020.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP] Paulo Mendes  Paulo Ferreira-Mendes (born May 13, 1990) is a Brazilian footballer who plays for Puerto Rico FC in the North American Soccer League.
What sport does Pedro Ferreira-Mendes play? [SEP] List of North American Soccer League transfers 2014  This is a list of North American Soccer League transfers and player moves during the 2014 season by club.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP]  Sour El-Ghozlane (or Souk El Ghoziane) is a town and commune in Algeria's central-northern, just-landlocked Bouïra Province. According to the 1998 census it has a population of 42,179.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP]  The poets Djamel Amrani (1935-2005), Messaour Boulanouar (1933), Kaddour M'Hamsadji (1933) and Arezki Metref (1952) are natives of Sour El-Ghozlane and M'hamed Aoune lived there. Mourad Kaouah (1919-1989) and the French actor Jean-Claude Brialy (1933-2007) were also born there. In La Chimère and the Gui (ed. Of the Writers, 2002) General Norbert Molinier speaks at length about his childhood in Aumale. A text by Jean Sénac entitled Poetry by Sour-El-Ghozlane was published in 1981 by L'Orycte, and reprinted in Jean Sénac Conrad Detrez and Vital Lahaye taught in the early 1970s at El-Ghazali High School in Sour El-Ghozlane.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP]  Chebbak has played for ASFAR in Morocco.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP]  Tadamon Sour plays Salam Sour in the Tyre derby. The club also plays the South derby with Ghazieh, based on their location.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP]  Sour El Ghozlane served under the French as a military post from 1845 and received the name of Aumale in honor of the Duke of Aumale, son of Louis Philippe.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP] 2009–10 Algerian Cup  The 2009–10 Algerian Cup was the 46th edition of the Algerian Cup. ES Sétif won the Cup by defeating CA Batna 3-0 in the final with a brace from Hocine Metref and an own goal from Saber Chebana. It was the seventh time that Sétif won the trophy.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP] Algerian Ligue 2  The Algerian Ligue 2, also called Ligue 2 , formerly known as Ligue Professionnelle 2 and Championnat National 2, is the second highest division overall in the Algerian football league system. It was professional from 2010 to 2020.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP] 2017–18 Algerian Cup  The 2017–18 Algerian Cup () was the 54th edition of the Algerian Cup. The winner qualified for the 2018–19 CAF Confederation Cup, The final was played in the July 5, 1962 Stadium. USM Bel Abbès were the eventual winners.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP] 2016–17 Algerian Cup  The 2016–17 Algerian Cup was the 53rd edition of the Algerian Cup. The eventual winners were CR Belouizdad who qualified for the 2018 CAF Confederation Cup.
What sport does E Sour El Ghozlane play? [SEP] 2022–23 ASO Chlef season  In the 2022–23 season, ASO Chlef are competing in the Ligue 1 for the 32nd season, as well as the Algerian Cup and Champions League. It is their 4th consecutive season in the top flight of Algerian football. They are competing in Ligue 1 and the Algerian Cup.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP]  Lek Kćira (born 28 January 1983) is a Croatian football player of Kosovar Albanian descent. Kćira mainly plays as central defender and he currently plays for ASKÖ Oberdorf in Austria.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP]  Kcira played for Hrvatski Dragovoljac in Croatia in 2002. He then went on to play in Poland in 2005 with Górnik Łęczna. After a two-year spell in Poland he decided on a move back to his first club NK Hrvatski Dragovoljac. After one season he moved to NK Varteks in the top division, he played for the club for the first half of the 2007–2008 season.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP]  He had signed one-year contract with Malaysia Super League team Kelantan for 2013 season. He will be the 4th foreign player for the team to play in the 2013 AFC Cup. In 2016 he played for NK Međimurje in the Croatian league.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP]  After a short time in HNK Gorica, Kcira transferred to Iranian club Steel Azin enjoyed playon there by scoring 2 goals in 19 matches. On the next seasons, he moved to Shahin Bushehr to work with his past manager Hamid Estili.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP]  He joined KF Tirana on 1 February 2008. During the rest of the 2007–2008 campaign he became a first team regular and made 13 appearances scoring one goal. Kcira started the 2008–2009 season brightly but he only managed to play 8 league games due to injury.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP] Gerald Tusha  Gerald Tusha (born 5 February 1991 in Tiranë) is an Albanian professional footballer who plays as a left midfielder for FK Vora.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP] Steel Azin F.C.  Steel Azin Football Club (, "Bashgah-e Futbal-e Estil Âzin") was an Iranian football club based in Tehran, Iran. The club was owned by Hossein Hedayati, owner of Steel Azin Iranian Holding Co. Steel Azin club also had a volleyball team, sponsored by the same company, which competed in the Iranian Volleyball Super League.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP] 2010–11 Esteghlal F.C. season  The 2010–11 season will be Esteghlal's 10th season in the Iran Pro League, and their 59th season in the top division of Iranian football. They will also be competing in the Hazfi Cup and AFC Champions League, and 66th year in existence as a football club.
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP] List of foreign footballers in Malaysia  This is a list of non-Malaysian footballers who currently plays or have played football in Malaysia.  Players in bold indicate players currently playing in the Malaysian football league system. Flags represent the player's country of birth, in case it is different from his main nationality.      (Perak FA) 2020-        (Sabah FA) - 2018             (Negeri Sembilan FA)
What sport does Lek Kcira play? [SEP] 2007–08 KF Tirana season  The 2007–08 season was Klubi i Futbollit Tirana's 69th competitive season, 69th consecutive season in the Kategoria Superiore and 87th year in existence as a football club. It covered a period from 1 July 2007 to 30 June 2008.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP]  Manzato participated at the 2010 IIHF World Championship as a member of the Switzerland men's national ice hockey team.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP]  Daniel Manzato (born 17 January 1984) is a Swiss professional ice hockey goaltender who currently plays for SC Bern in the National League (NL). He was drafted 160th overall in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft by the Carolina Hurricanes.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP]  Born and raised in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, he speaks German as well as Italian, being of Italian descent and having lived for about six years in the Italian-speaking Canton of Ticino.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP] Daniel Manzato (born 1984), Swiss ice hockey player ; Franco Manzato (born 1966), Italian politician Manzato is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP]   Daniel Morillo (born January 21, 1988 in Ibiza) is an athlete from Spain, who competes in archery.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP] Daniel Manzato  Daniel Manzato (born 17 January 1984) is a Swiss professional ice hockey goaltender who currently plays for SC Bern in the National League (NL). He was drafted 160th overall in the 2002 NHL Entry Draft by the Carolina Hurricanes.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP] 2019 Spengler Cup  The 2019 Spengler Cup was held from 26 to 31 December 2019 at the Eisstadion Davos, in Davos, Switzerland.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP]
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP] 2011–12 NLA season  The 2011–12 National League A season was the fifth ice hockey season of the National League A since the reorganization of the Swiss league. 12 teams participated in the league, which was won by EV Zug.
What sport does Daniel Manzato play? [SEP] 2009–10 NLA season  The 2009–10 National League A season was the third ice hockey season of the National League A since the reorganization of the Swiss league. Prior to the season, no promotion and relegation occurred between the National League A and National League B as a result of NLA club Biel's victory over Lausanne in the prior season's relegation playoff.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]  P=Matches played, W=Matches won, L=Matches lost, F=Points for, A=Points against, Pts=Points 1ZM Lumar merged with Branik after the season.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]  The 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League, known as Liga Kolinska for sponsorship reasons, was the eighth season of the Premier A Slovenian Basketball League, the highest professional basketball league in Slovenia.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]  P=Matches played, W=Matches won, L=Matches lost, F=Points for, A=Points against, Pts=Points
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]  The 1997–98 Slovenian Basketball League was the seventh season of the Premier A Slovenian Basketball League, the highest professional basketball league in Slovenia.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]  P=Matches played, W=Matches won, L=Matches lost, F=Points for, A=Points against, Pts=Points
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP] 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League  The 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League, known as Liga Kolinska for sponsorship reasons, was the eighth season of the Premier A Slovenian Basketball League, the highest professional basketball league in Slovenia.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP] 1999–2000 Slovenian Basketball League  The 1999–2000 Slovenian Basketball League, known as Liga Kolinska for sponsorship reasons, was the ninth season of the Premier A Slovenian Basketball League, the highest professional basketball league in Slovenia.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP] 1997–98 Slovenian Basketball League  The 1997–98 Slovenian Basketball League was the seventh season of the Premier A Slovenian Basketball League, the highest professional basketball league in Slovenia.
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP]
What sport does 1998–99 Slovenian Basketball League play? [SEP] 1998–99 FIBA Saporta Cup  The 1998–99 FIBA Saporta Cup was the thirty-third edition of FIBA's 2nd-tier level European-wide professional club basketball competition. It occurred between September 15, 1998, and April 13, 1999. The final was held at Zaragoza, Spain.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP]  John was born the son of Les Parsons and his wife Marion in Oxford on 20 February 1938. His father had been president of the Lawn Tennis Association for the Oxford area. As a schoolboy at Magdalen College School, Parsons was a member of the tennis team. At the age of 14, he began writing football match reports for the Oxford Mail. After leaving school in 1956, he took a job as a reporter on general topics at the paper. In 1964 he moved to the Daily Mail. In January 1981, Parsons came to the Daily Telegraph and succeeded Lance Tingay as tennis correspondent. In 2001, he retired
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP]  John Anthony Parsons (20 February 1938 – 26 April 2004) was a British sports journalist and author.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP]  Robert Heber "Bob" Parsons (born June 29, 1950 in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania) is a former NFL punter and tight end from (1972-1983) for the Chicago Bears. He later played with the Birmingham Stallions of the United States Football League. During the off season, Parsons did some substitute teaching in Wheaton, Illinois. He has 3 kids; Michelle, Greg, and Mallory, the youngest who currently plays volleyball at Carthage College in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP]  Parsons began his senior club career with Adamstown before moving to Sydney to play for Leichhardt-Annandale. He announced his retirement several times, citing scrutiny from referees and politics.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP]  he played for the West Adelaide Bearcats in the NBL. Parsons later converted to Australian Rules Football, playing as a ruckman. He is best remembered in football circles for his Jack Oatey Medal winning performance in North Adelaide's 1987 SANFL Grand Final win. He was then recruited to Sydney with the tenth pick in the 1987 VFL Draft but struggled to make an impact in his three years, although he gathered three Brownlow Medal votes for his 23 disposal effort in a match against the West Coast Eagles midway through his first season. Parsons returned to North Adelaide in 1991 and finished the year as a member of another premiership team. In 2008, Parsons suffered a stroke and was revealed to be suffering from a brain tumour. He died in hospital on 24 April 2009.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP] John Parsons (footballer, born 1875)  John Parsons Alexander (14 April 1875 - 18 November 1960), was an Anglo-Spanish footballer who played as a forward for FC Barcelona. His younger brother, William, followed him every step through.  Together with his brother, he is regarded as one of the most important figures in the amateur beginnings of football in Catalonia, taking part in some of the earliest Catalan clubs in existence such as "Sociedad de Foot-Ball de Barcelona", where he stood out as a great striker, netting some of the first goals in the history of Catalan football. Parsons is best known for his role in FC Barcelona's beginnings, being among the 11 founders of the club in 1899, and then serving the club as its vice-president between 1900 and 1901 and as a player between 1899 and 1904, netting 15 goals in 41 appearances He was also a great fan of philately, receiving several awards and distinctions throughout his life.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP] Jim Parsons  James Joseph Parsons (born March 24, 1973) is an American actor. From 2007 to 2019, he played Sheldon Cooper in the CBS sitcom "The Big Bang Theory". He has received various awards, including four Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Lead Actor in a Comedy Series and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in a Television Series Musical or Comedy. In 2018, "Forbes" estimated his annual salary to be $26.5 million and named him the world's highest-paid television actor.  Parsons made his Broadway debut in 2011 portraying Tommy Boatwright in the play "The Normal Heart", for which he shared a Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Ensemble Performance. He reprised the role in the film adaptation of the play, and he received his seventh Emmy nomination, this time in the category of Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or Movie. Similarly, Parsons starred as party host Michael in the 50th anniversary Broadway production of "The Boys in the Band", which won the 2019 Tony Award for Best Revival of a Play, reprising his performance (with the whole Broadway anniversary cast) in the 2020 film adaptation. In film, Parsons has voiced the lead character in "Home" (2015) and played supporting roles in "Hidden Figures" (2016) and "Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile" (2019).
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP] William Parsons (footballer)  William Parsons Alexander (19 January 1877 – Unknown), was an Anglo-Spanish footballer who played as a forward for FC Barcelona. He is best known for being one of the founders of FC Barcelona in 1899, and then serving as the club's vice-captain in 1899 and 1900.
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP] The Alan Parsons Project  The Alan Parsons Project was a British rock band active between 1975 and 1990, whose core membership consisted of producer, audio engineer, musician and composer Alan Parsons and singer, songwriter and pianist Eric Woolfson. They were accompanied by varying session musicians and some relatively consistent session players such as guitarist Ian Bairnson, arranger Andrew Powell, bassist and vocalist David Paton, drummer Stuart Elliott, and vocalists Lenny Zakatek and Chris Rainbow. Parsons and Woolfson shared writing credits on almost all of the Project's songs, with Parsons producing or co-producing all of the band's recordings.  The Alan Parsons Project released eleven studio albums in its 15-year career, the most successful being "I Robot" (1977) and "Eye in the Sky" (1982). Many of their albums are conceptual in nature and focus on science fiction, supernatural, literary and sociological themes. Among the group's most popular songs are "I Wouldn't Want to Be Like You", "Games People Play", "Time", "Sirius"/"Eye in the Sky" and "Don't Answer Me".
What sport does John Parsons play? [SEP] Matthew Parsons  Matthew John Parsons (born 25 December 1991) is an English footballer who plays as a left back for Faversham Town.
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP]  In: Out:
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP]  In: Out:
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP]  In: Out:
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP]  In: Out:
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP]  In: Out:
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP] List of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012  This is a list of Azerbaijan football transfers in the winter transfer window 2012 by club. Only clubs of the 2011–12 Azerbaijan Premier League are included.
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP] List of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2013  This is a list of Azerbaijan football transfers in the winter transfer window 2013 by club. Only clubs of the 2012–13 Azerbaijan Premier League are included.
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP] 2011–12 Ravan Baku season  The Ravan Baku 2011–12 season was Ravan Baku's first Azerbaijan Premier League season, which they finished in 8th place. They also took part in the 2011–12 Azerbaijan Cup, getting knocked out in the first round by FK Baku on penalties. Ravan Baku started the season under Bahman Hasanov who Resigned on 20 September 2011, being replaced by Vladislav Kadyrov who in turn was sacked on 5 February 2012, to be replaced by Bahman Hasanov.<ref name=muga2/>
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP] List of Cypriot football transfers winter 2012–13  This is a list of Cypriot football transfers for the 2012–13 winter transfer window by club. Only transfers of clubs in the Cypriot First Division and Cypriot Second Division are included.  The winter transfer window opened on 1 January 2013, although a few transfers took place prior to that date. The window will close at midnight on 31 January 2013. Players without a club may join one at any time, either during or in between transfer windows.
What sport does list of Azerbaijan football transfers winter 2012 play? [SEP] List of Belgian football transfers winter 2012–13  This is a list of Belgian football transfers for the 2012-13 winter transfer window. Only transfers involving a team from the Belgian Pro League are listed.  The winter transfer window opens on 1 January 2013, although a few transfers may take place prior to that date. The window closes at midnight on 1 February 2013. Players without a club may join one, either during or in between transfer windows.
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP]  Khalaf plays between 2003 and 2005 for the Under-19 Syrian national team. The Syrian U-19 team that finished in Fourth place in the AFC U-19 Championship 2004 in Malaysia and he was a part of the Syrian U-20 team in the FIFA U-20 World Cup 2005. in the Netherlands. He plays against Canada, Italy and Colombia in the group-stage of the FIFA U-20 World Cup 2005.
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP]  Abdul-Hadi Khalaf (عبد الهادي خلف) (born January 1, 1986 in Homs) is a Syrian football player who is currently playing for Al-Karamah in the Syrian Premier League.
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP] AFC U-19 Championship 2004 Fourth place
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP]  Khaled played half the season until the Waff Cup with the international team he got injured in his knee where he couldn't play the whole season
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP]  Khaled Ahmad Khalaf Matar (خالد أحمد خلف; born August 15, 1983 in Kuwait City) is a Kuwaiti footballer who plays in Attack for Kuwaiti Premier League club Al Arabi and the Kuwait national football team with his brothers in Al-Arabi Khalaf Ahmed Khalaf and Ali Khalaf. He played for Al-Arabi in the 2007 AFC Champions League group stage. He is away from football for 2 and a half seasons due to injury in his leg and has returned to football in Al-Arabi Sporting Club in season 2014-15.
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP] List of Bahranis  The Baharna are one of ethnically diverse Bahrain's many ethnic groups. The following is a list of notable Bahrani figures
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP] List of Iraqis  This list of Iraqis includes people who were born in Iraq and people who are of Iraqi ancestry, who are significantly notable for their life and/or work.             camp in Israel to the Iraqi Jewish immigrants Bertha and Gabriel Gavriel.   Ahmad Harhash born July 20 2001 syrian Canadian Actor
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP] List of Palestinians  The following Lists of Palestinians are lists of people with either a self-designation (endonym) or a foreign appellation (exonym) as "Palestinian", or who were born in the region of Palestine.  Approximately 12 million people today identify as "Palestinians", as defined in the Palestinian National Charter of 1968.
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP]
What sport does Abdulhadi Khalaf play? [SEP] Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani  Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (; born 3 June 1980, Doha, Qatar) is the Emir of Qatar who succeeded his father, Sheikh Hamad, after Hamad abdicated in his favour.  Tamim is the fourth son of Emir Hamad bin Khalifa. He became heir apparent in 2003 when his older brother Sheikh Jassim renounced his claim to the throne. He became emir when his father abdicated in his favor in 2013. Tamim has been involved in efforts to raise Qatar's international profile through hosting sports events such as the 2022 FIFA World Cup, as well as buying Paris Saint-Germain F.C.  Tamim was regarded by the Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Centre as the most influential Muslim in the world in 2022 and ranks third in 2023.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP]  VOKO-Irodion is a volleyball club from Oosterhout. VOKO was founded in 1974 as an agreement between former Oosterhout volleyball clubs LEC and RELAX. The first team plays in the Dutch third division, and their goal is promote to the national divisions.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP]  Nikko Landeros (born April 28, 1989) is an ice sled hockey player and paralympic freestyle skier from the United States. He took part in the 2010 Winter Paralympics in Vancouver, where USA won gold. They beat Japan 2-0 in the final. He was also on the team USA in the 2014 Winter Paralympics in Sochi, which won gold by beating Russia 1-0 in the final. He and his best friend Tyler Carron had an accident when they were 17. Both lost their legs. His father is a native of Mexico and his mother is from Milan, Italy.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP]  Spirydion Jan Albański (4 October 1907 – 30 March 1992), nicknamed "Spirytus" and "Romek", was a Polish football goalkeeper in the 1930s. He played for Pogoń Lwów and the Polish National Team. Albański was born in Lwów (Lviv). He graduated from high school after the Second World War, when he was forced to move from Lwów to Upper Silesia, worked in the coal-mining industry. He was later a civil servant, and also a soccer coach.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP]  Serhiy Vovkodav (Сергій Васильович Вовкодав; born 2 July 1988) is a Ukrainian professional football defender who plays for FC Poltava in the Ukrainian First League. Playing in the youth competitions of the Ukrainian Premier League in 2006–2013, on 27 May 2021 retained its record with the most games in competitions among under-21 teams.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP]  Amediateka, START, ivi, The Walt Disney Studios movies and cartoons. The service is accessible from Android and iOS mobile devices, Smart TV running on Tizen, WebOS, Android TV, on RedboxMini, Xiaomi Mi Box 3, Apple TV (via AirPlay) boxes. Desktop users can access the video service via the VOKA application for Windows or on the website. In 2018, VOKA launched proprietary media content: "Our Football" and "Our Hockey" offering broadcasts of games with Belarusian clubs and national teams, live streaming of concerts, music festivals, conferences and forums, as well as cyber sports tournaments in the section "Cybersport". Also available for
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP] VOKO-Irodion  VOKO-Irodion is a volleyball club from Oosterhout.  VOKO was founded in 1974 as an agreement between former Oosterhout volleyball clubs LEC and RELAX. The first team plays in the Dutch third division, and their goal is promote to the national divisions.
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP] 1–0 victory over Moldova in a Mayors Cup match. Vladimir Voskoboinikov Vladimir Voskoboinikov (; born 2 February 1983) is a retired Estonian professional footballer who played as a centre forward. Voskoboinikov has begun his career at Puuma in Estonia where he played since 1991 until 2000. At the age of 18, Voskoboinikov continued his professional career with Levadia. He has had a short spell in Belgium with Jupiler League club Brussels and a short loan at Eupen before he moved back to Estonia. He was initially on loan at Russian First Division club Torpedo Moscow, but in July 2007 he
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP] Kuopion Reippaan voimistelijat Kuopion Reippaan Voimistelijat is a sports club in Kuopio, Finland. It was constituted in 1906 as "Kuopion Reipas Ry". It is the only existing sports union that still bears the name "Kuopion Reipas", but it has had a difficult time connecting to the origins of its roots. The club was created when "Kuopion Raittiusseuran Miesvoimistelijat" and "Kuopion Voimistelijat ja Rautatieläisten voimisteluseura" united. The new name was "Kuopion Reipas", and it offered skiing, wrestling, sports, gymnastics and football. After 1918, the Kuopion Reipas union dispersed, and new sports unions were formed Kuopion Urheilu-Veikot (1920), Kuopion Palloseura ja vuonna
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP] enormous spaceship hovers over Earth — this is a stadium, which hosts sports events that resemble soccer but at mind-boggling speeds. The name of the game is cosmoball. When the game is on, the whole world stops in its tracks to watch it. The players are called Athletes. To regular people, they are demigods, for the results of each match determine the fate of the planet. Dzhanik Fayziev, plans to make a blockbuster "Goalkeeper of the Galaxy" about a Russian superhero fighting alien invaders, inspired by Marvel works, Russia Today reports. Fayziev clarified that, according to the plot, people evolved
What sport does VOKO-Irodion play? [SEP] is basketball, which is played throughout the early winter months. Near the end of the school year the Native Youth Olympics (NYO) takes place. All the students involved in sports form a team, which travels around the Bering Strait School District (BSSD). Educator and writer Ticasuk Brown was born in Unalakleet and wrote it about it extensively in her autobiography. Her father was one of the co-founders of the village. Félix Rodríguez de la Fuente, a Spanish naturalist and broadcaster, died in Shaktoolik on March 14, 1980, while shooting a documentary about the Iditarod Trail Sled Dog Race, when the
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]  Paul Chapman (born 5 November 1981) is a former professional Australian rules footballer who played for the Geelong Football Club and Essendon Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL).
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]  Chapman played with North Coburg Saints Football Club which merged with Fawkner Park to become Northern Saints Football Club in the EDFL, he also played with the Calder Cannons in the TAC Cup.
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]  In 2003 Chapman officially joined the Geelong senior team playing all 22 games of the season. Chapman played his best game for the season in round 7 against the West Coast Eagles where he kicked 4 goals, Chapman also kicked a last minute game-winning goal against Richmond in Round 15. Chapman would play his 50th career game in round 21 against the Brisbane Lions. At the end of the 2003 season Chapman would be named best team and constructive player, he would also finish 8th in Geelong's Best and Fairest. 2004 would be Chapman's first AFL finals experience with Geelong making it all the way to the Preliminary Final only to be defeated by 9 points against the Brisbane lions, Chapman would play all 22 games of the season including all 3 finals. Chapman had double figure possessions in every game except one, he also kicked 38 goals for
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]  Chapman played 20 games in the 2012 season kicking 36 goals. Geelong would finish 6th on the AFL ladder only to be eliminated in the first week losing to Fremantle by 16 points. Chapman wasn't very effective in this game only collecting 11 disposals. In 2013, Chapman only played eight games due to a hamstring injury, he kicked 12 goals for the season. Returning from injury as a sub in Round 22, he made an impact off the bench. Geelong finished 2nd on the ladder and he played his 250th game in the Qualifying Final against Fremantle where they lost by 15 points, the next week Geelong defeated Port Adelaide by 16 points in the Semi Finals advancing to the Preliminary Finals, only to lose to Hawthorn by 5 points. Chapman missed the game due to suspension. Chapman was delisted by Geelong on 2 October 2013, after strongly suggesting he wanted to play on, but Geelong's final thoughts were that he couldn't compete at top-level football anymore due to age.
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]  On 18 October 2013, Chapman joined after being traded for pick 84. The Geelong champion couldn't have started his career at the Bombers any better, kicking four goals to lead Essendon to a round 1 win over North Melbourne. He continued to have a presence around goals for the Bombers, booting 22 goals from 20 games. He finished the season well after a quieter patch. Chapman would play in Essendon's first week elimination final against North Melbourne he booted 2 goals and collected 22 disposals despite Essendon losing by 12 points and being eliminated from the finals. The 33-year-old signed a one-year contract extension to play on in 2015. Chapman's 2015 season was plagued with injuries as he would only play 8 games. On 25 August 2015, Chapman announced that he would retire after the club's round 22 home match against. After the round 22 game Chapman was carried off the field by his teammates to a standing ovation by the crowd.
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP] List of Detroit Red Wings broadcasters  This is a list of broadcasters for the Detroit Red Wings ice hockey team.
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP] Paul Chapman (Australian footballer)  Paul Chapman (born 5 November 1981) is a former professional Australian rules footballer who played for the Geelong Football Club and Essendon Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL).
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP] David Chapman (handballer)  David Chapman (June 26, 1975 – October 10, 2017) was a number one ranked player in the sport of American handball. He was one of the best handball players ever to play the sport.   Chapman dominated the four-wall game for 11 years, from 1993 to 2004, winning eight United States Handball Association (USHA) national singles titles and seven national doubles titles in that period. He also won two World singles championships, and two world doubles championships during this part of his career. Throughout this period (1994-2004), Chapman was the number one ranked professional handball player in the world (except for part of 2001).   Chapman retired in 2004 but returned to the game in 2008 and played until 2012. During this period, he won two more national doubles titles, recaptured his number one ranking in 2010, and in 2011 won his ninth national four-wall singles title at the age of 35. His nine four-wall national singles titles are second only to Naty Alvarado's eleven, and his nine national four-wall doubles titles is number one of all time — achieved with three different doubles partners (Naty Alvarado Jr., Vince Munoz and Emmett Peixoto).  While Chapman's primary focus has been four-wall handball, he also played in several national three-wall tournaments. Before his first retirement, Chapman won two national titles in singles and three in doubles. When he returned to handball he won another national singles title and two more national doubles titles, giving him three national singles and five national doubles titles overall in three-wall handball.
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP]
What sport does Paul Chapman play? [SEP] 2009 AFL Grand Final  The 2009 AFL Grand Final was an Australian rules football game contested between the St Kilda Football Club and the Geelong Football Club at the Melbourne Cricket Ground on 26 September 2009. It was the 113th annual grand final of the Australian Football League (formerly the Victorian Football League), staged to determine the premiers for the 2009 AFL season.  The match, attended by 99,251 spectators, was won by Geelong by a margin of 12 points, marking the club's eighth VFL/AFL premiership victory. It is remembered as one of the great grand finals in recent memory, due to the closeness of the scoreline, the physical nature of the game and the sheer brilliance of individual efforts from some of its participants. Geelong's Paul Chapman was awarded the Norm Smith Medal as the best player on the ground.
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] 2010 – 5th place ; 2014 – 6th place ; 2018 – 7th place
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] 2013 – 8th place
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] 2011 –
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP]  The Guyana women's national field hockey team represents Guyana in women's international field hockey competitions.
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] 1971 – 8th place ; 1975 – 7th place ; 1991 – 10th place
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] Sport in South America  Association football is the most popular sport in almost all South American countries. There are a wide range of sports played in the continent of South America. Popular sports include baseball, basketball, rugby league, rugby union, tennis, golf, volleyball, hockey, beach volleyball, motorsports and cricket. South America held its first Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 2016. Two years prior to this, major cities in Brazil hosted the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Section::::Association football. South America and Europe share the supremacy over the sport, as all national team winners in FIFA World Cup history and all winning teams at the FIFA Club World Cup have come from these two continents. Brazil holds the world record at the FIFA World Cup with five titles in total. Argentina has three titles and Uruguay have two. So far four South American nations have hosted the tournament including its first edition in Uruguay (1930). The other three were Brazil (1950, 2014), Chile (1962), and Argentina (1978).  South America is home to the longest running international football tournament; Copa América, which has been regularly contested since 1916. Uruguay have won the Copa America a record 15 times, beating hosts Argentina in 2011 to reach 15 titles (they were previously equal on 14 titles each during the 2011 Copa America).  The continent has produced many of the most famous and most talented players in history, including Ricardo Bochini, Alberto Spencer, Alfredo Di Stéfano, Arsenio Erico, Pelé, Teófilo Cubillas, César Cueto, Enzo Francescoli, Elías Figueroa, Diego Maradona, Carlos Valderrama, Iván Zamorano, Gabriel Batistuta, Ronaldo, Claudio Pizarro, Ronaldinho, Neymar, Luis Suárez and Lionel Messi.
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] List of national stadiums  Many countries have a national sport stadium, which typically serves as the primary or exclusive home for one or more of a country's national representative sports teams. The term is most often used in reference to an association football stadium. Usually, a national stadium will be in or very near a country's capital city or largest city. It is generally (but not always) the country's largest and most lavish sports venue with a rich history of hosting a major moment in sports (e.g. FIFA World Cup, Olympics, etc.). In many, but not all cases, it is also used by a local team. Many countries, including Spain and the United States, do not have a national stadium designated as such; instead matches are rotated throughout the country. The lack of a national stadium can be seen as advantageous as designating a single stadium would limit the fan base capable of realistically attending matches as well as the concern of the cost of transportation, especially in the case of the United States due to its geographical size and high population.  A list of national stadiums follows:
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] Sophie Devine  Sophie Frances Monique Devine (born 1 September 1989) is a New Zealand sportswoman, who has represented New Zealand in both cricket for the New Zealand national women's cricket team ("White Ferns"), and in field hockey as a member of the New Zealand women's national field hockey team ("Black Sticks Women"). She has since focused on cricket. She is known for not wearing a helmet when batting, a rarity in 21st century cricket. In December 2017, she was named as one of the players in the ICC Women's T20I Team of the Year.  In August 2018, she was awarded a central contract by New Zealand Cricket, following the tours of Ireland and England in the previous months. In October 2018, she was named in New Zealand's squad for the 2018 ICC Women's World Twenty20 tournament in the West Indies. Ahead of the tournament, she was named as the star of the team.  In July 2020, Devine was appointed as the captain of the New Zealand women's cricket team on a full-time basis, taking over from Amy Satterthwaite. In September 2021, in the second match against England, Devine played in her 100th WT20I.
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] Harvard Crimson  The Harvard Crimson are the intercollegiate athletic teams of Harvard College. The school's teams compete in NCAA Division I. As of 2013, there were 42 Division I intercollegiate varsity sports teams for women and men at Harvard, more than at any other NCAA Division I college in the country. Like the other Ivy League colleges, Harvard does not offer athletic scholarships.
What sport does Guyana women's national field hockey team play? [SEP] Star (sport badge)  In sport, some national and club teams include one or more stars as part of (or beside) the team badge (often referred to as a "crest") appearing on their kits, often on the shirts, to represent important achievements for the team's history. Generally inspired by the star symbol in heraldry, since the late 1950s, when it was introduced for the first time in association football, various national governing bodies at club level and some confederations have also regulated the practice.  Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), at an international level, was the first federation to regulate the addition of stars to crests in recognition of a significant number of titles in a specific competition, such as league tournaments, confederations' continental championships, club world titles and the FIFA World Cup.<ref name=FIFA/> Due to the positive reception in the public opinion, it was subsequently introduced in other disciplines, mostly in team sports, but also in e-sports.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP]  Atanas Atanasov (Атанас Атанасов, 19 November 1935 – 3 September 2021) was a Bulgarian basketball player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1956 Summer Olympics, and the 1960 Summer Olympics. Atanasov died on 3 September 2021, at the age of 85.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP]  Martin Atanasov (Мартин Атанасов) (born 27 September 1996) is a Bulgarian volleyball player, member of the Bulgaria men's national volleyball team. On club level, he plays for Ziraat Bankası Ankara.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP]  Stanimir Atanasov (Станимир Атанасов) (born 20 April 1976 in Rousse) is a Bulgarian sprint canoer who has competed from 1995 to 2004. He won a bronze medal in the C-4 500 m event at the 1995 ICF Canoe Sprint World Championships in Duisburg. Atanasov was a European bronze medallist in 1997 (C-2) and 2002 (C-1). At the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, he earned his best finish of eighth in the C-1 500 m event.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP]  Atanasov also played for the Bulgaria national under-21 football team and scored 2 goals - one in a friendly game against Republic of Macedonia and one in a qualification against Ukraine.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP]  Zlatozar Atanasov (Bulgarian: Златозар Атанасов; born 12 December 1989) is a Bulgarian athlete specialising in the triple jump. He represented his country at the 2013 World Championships without qualifying for the final. In addition, he finished eleventh at the 2012 European Championships and seventh at the 2013 European Indoor Championships. His personal bests in the event are 17.09 metres outdoors (+1.3 m/s, Burgas 2013) and 16.70 metres indoors (Dobrich 2013).
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP] Atanas Atanasov (basketball)  Atanas Vasilev Atanasov (, 19 November 1935 – 3 September 2021) was a Bulgarian basketball player. He competed in the men's tournament at the 1956 Summer Olympics, and the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was also a silver medalist at the European Championships in Sofia in 1957, and a bronze medalist at the European Championships in Belgrade in 1961. He was included in the ideal team of the World Championships in Chile, 1959. Atanasov died on 3 September 2021, at the age of 85.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP] FC Montana  FC Montana () is a Bulgarian association football club based in Montana, which currently plays in the Second League, the second level of Bulgarian football league system.  Montana plays its home matches at the Ogosta Stadium, which has a capacity of 8,000 spectators. The club's traditional colours are blue, white and red. After a prolonged period of absence, they were propelled back into professional football in the mid 90s with the help of some experienced and talented footballers, including the ex-captain of English Aston Villa and Bulgarian international Stiliyan Petrov.  FC Montana was founded in 1921 when the few amateur sports clubs and organizations in the city decided to merge into one club. The new club was named SC Hristo Mihaylov after the Bulgarian communist party activist Hristo Popmihaylov, who was born in the town. Since then, Montana have spent a total of nine seasons in the Bulgarian First League and 43 seasons in the lower Second League. They have also reached the Bulgarian Cup final once, in 2016.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP] FC Spartak Varna  FK Spartak 1918 Varna () is a Bulgarian association football phoenix club based in Varna, which currently competes in the First League, the top level of Bulgarian football league system. Spartak plays its home matches at the local Stadion Spartak.  Founded in 1918, Spartak Varna established itself as one of the early pioneering clubs in Bulgarian football. Spartak won the Bulgarian league in 1932, and was runner up in 1931 and 1933. Spartak has spent the majority of its existence in the first tier of Bulgarian football, with the club’s most recent top flight participation being season 2022–2023.  Spartak's nickname is the "Falcons", and the club has a very heated rivalry with fellow Varna-based club, Cherno More Varna. Matches between the two sides are known as the "Derby of Varna". The two sides even used to share the Yuri Gagarin Stadium before it was demolished.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP] Bulgaria men's national basketball team  The Bulgaria men's national basketball team () represents Bulgaria in international basketball. The governing body is the Bulgarian Basketball Federation.  Bulgaria's first appearance at an international tournament came at the EuroBasket in 1935. They have reached the premier European basketball competition 25 times, with their best results coming in 1957 as the runners-up on home soil, and their bronze medal finish in 1961 respectively. Bulgaria has also qualified for the FIBA World Cup, where they finished seventh in their lone appearance in 1959. Competing at the Olympic Games multiple times, the national team had their top performance in 1956. Bulgaria has also competed at smaller events, such as the Balkan Championship, winning gold medals in 1959, 1960, and 1971.
What sport does Atanas Atanasov play? [SEP] PBC Academic  BC Academic Metropol Region () is a reestablished Bulgarian professional basketball club based in the capital Sofia.  In April 2022, Academic has been reborn and rebranded by the new owners, the german-bulgarian Ex-professional basketball player Viktor Vladov and Georgi Petrov.  Founded in 1947 as part of the Academic Sofia sports club, they have won the championship of Bulgaria 26 times, won the Bulgarian Cup 11 times and won the Bulgarian Super Cup 1 time. Among their international honours are two FIBA European Champions Cup finals (both lost to Rīgas ASK) in 1958 and 1959 and an International Students' Cup in 1957.  In 2000, the team were renamed Lukoil Academic as a sponsorship deal was signed with Russian oil giant Lukoil, and quickly established themselves as dominant in the Bulgarian Championship. Since then they have been a regular ULEB Cup participant, and won the FIBA Europe Regional Challenge Cup Conference South in 2003.  In September 2020, Academic withdrew from the NBL and announced that it will no longer maintain a professional team.  They played their home games at the Universiade Hall.  After the rebranding and reestablishing to "BC Academic Metropol Region" in April 2022, the club will compete in the Bulgarian A-Grupa in season 2022/23.   The club colours have been changed to dark blue and yellow, as of being more applieable to the traditional colours of Academic.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP]  Abdoul Thiam (born 19 June 1976 in Berlin) is a German footballer who currently plays for Hilalspor Berlin in the 7th tier Landesliga Berlin Staffel 1. At the height of his career, Thiam played 73 games for Eintracht Braunschweig and Rot Weiss Ahlen in the 2. Fußball-Bundesliga.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP]  Abdoulaye Thiam (born January 1, 1984) is a Senegalese sabre fencer. Thiam represented Senegal at the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing, where he competed in the men's individual sabre event, along with his teammate Mamadou Keita. He lost the first preliminary round match to U.S. fencer Jason Rogers, with a score of 10–15.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP]  Djibril Thiam (born July 6, 1986) is a Senegalese basketball player for Al-Fateh and the Senegalese national team, where he participated at the 2014 FIBA Basketball World Cup.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP]  Abdou Mbacke Thiam (born 3 February 1992) is a Senegalese footballer who plays as a forward.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP]  Serigne Abdou (28 February 1995 – 27 September 2016) was a Qatari footballer of Senegalese descent who played for Al Khor as a defender. He also played for the Qatar youth team.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP] Abdoulkader Thiam  Abdoulkader Thiam (born 3 October 1998) is a Mauritanian professional footballer who plays as a defender for club Cholet.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP] List of Fula people  This is a list of notable Fulanis.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP] Mauritania national football team  The Mauritania national football team (), nicknamed Al-Murabitun in the reference to Almoravid dynasty, represents Mauritania in men's international football. It is controlled by the Fération de Football de la République Islamique de Mauritanie, and is a member of the Confederation of African Football. They have not qualified for the FIFA World Cup. However, in the Amílcar Cabral Cup, a regional tournament for West Africa, Mauritania came forth in 1980 on hosting the competition. The national football team of Mauritania later runners-up in 1995, losing on penalties to Sierra Leone after the final finished 0–0.  On 18 November 2018, Mauritania qualified for the Africa Cup of Nations for the first time in history, after they won 2–1 against Botswana to seal a spot in the 2019 tournament.
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP] Abdoul Salam Sow
What sport does Abdoul Thiam play? [SEP] Mesaimeer SC  Al-Mesaimeer Sports Club () is a Qatari multi-sports club based in Mesaimeer. Its football department plays in the Qatari Second Division. It was previously known as "Al-Nahda Sports Club", then "Al-Shoala", and finally, today it is known as "Mesaimeer Sports Club". It was promoted to the first division of Qatari football for the first time in history in the 2014–15 season.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]  The sport teams of the university are named the Lobos (Wolves) BUAP. There are several sport facilities through the state for the students to take part in. The BUAP takes part in different competitions with representative teams in them. The Lobos de la BUAP soccer team is currently affiliated with the university, and features some students from Puebla's public university. They currently play in the Liga de Balompié Mexicano.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]  Club de Fútbol Lobos de la Benemérita Universidad Autónoma de Puebla Premier were a Mexican football club based in Puebla, Mexico. The club represented the Autonomous University of Puebla. The clubs was affiliated with Lobos BUAP and plays in the Liga Premier.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]  The first stage of the stadium opened in 1999 and was used by Lobos de la BUAP, a professional football club that plays in the Ascenso MX. In 2007, the club moved because it did not meet the requirements of the Mexican Football Federation for an Ascenso MX home grounds; namely, it required expansion from 9,000 to at least 15,000 seats. After three and a half years in the Estadio Cuauhtémoc, Lobos returned to the Estadio Universitario on February 26, 2012 after it was expanded to hold more than 20,000. In 2017, Lobos were promoted to Liga MX, and as the venue seats more than the 20,000 minimum for a first-division football
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]  UNM's NCAA Division I program (FBS for football) offers 18 varsity sports. The teams are known as the Lobos, who compete in the Mountain West Conference. Two human mascots, referred to as Louie Lobo and Lucy Lobo, rouse crowds at New Mexico athletic events. The official school colors are cherry and silver. The Lobos have won national championships in skiing and cross country running.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]  On June 26, 2020, the end of professional football was announced in Zacatepec, after the departure of Atlético Zacatepec to Morelia, where it was renamed Atlético Morelia. Meanwhile, Guillermo Aguilar had started the procedures to return Lobos BUAP to football, but taking part of the Liga de Balompié Mexicano instead of Mexican Football Federation, on June 27 the club's entry into the new league became official, The team signed Rodrigo Ruiz as its technical director and announced the arrival of its first players, some of them involved in the previous Lobos BUAP stage that included their promotion to Liga MX. In August 2020, the Lobos BUAP return was
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP] 2017–18 Serie A de Mexico season  The 2017–18 Serie A de México season was split in two tournaments Apertura and Clausura. Serie A is the third-tier football league of Mexico. The season was played between 11 August 2017 and 19 May 2018.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP] Colin Kazim-Richards  Colin Kazim-Richards (born 26 August 1986), also known as Colin Kâzım, Kâzım or Kâzım Kâzım, is a professional footballer as a forward for Süper Lig club Fatih Karagümrük S.K.   Born and raised in England, he qualified for Turkish nationality through his mother's heritage. An anglicised form of the Turkish given name Kâzım was intended to be a middle name, which would have rendered his full name as Colin Kazim Richards, but due to an error, he was legally registered as Colin Kazim-Richards.<ref name="ref1"/>  Having played as a junior for Queens Park Rangers and Arsenal, Kazim-Richards was handed a professional contract by Bury. He noted Bury as a pinpoint of his career. He found playing under former Manchester United player Chris Casper influential to his development. He also went on to feature in the Football League for Brighton & Hove Albion before transferring to Premier League side Sheffield United where he remained for one season. He has since forged a career in Europe with Fenerbahçe, Toulouse, Galatasaray and Olympiacos. In 2007, he chose to represent Turkey at international level, retiring in 2015. Kazim-Richards earned 37 caps, scoring twice.
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP] Liga MX  The Liga MX, officially known as the Liga BBVA MX for sponsorship reasons, is the top professional football division in Mexico, holding two tournaments per year.  The league is considered the strongest in North America, and among the strongest in all of the Americas. According to the International Federation of Football History & Statistics, the league currently ranks 20th worldwide and was ranked as the 10th strongest league in the first decade of the 21st century (2001–2010). According to CONCACAF, the league – with an average attendance of 25,557 during the 2014–15 season – draws the largest crowds on average of any football league in the Americas and the third largest crowds of any professional sports league in North America, behind only the National Football League and Major League Baseball, and ahead of the Canadian Football League. It is also the fourth most attended football league in the world behind Germany's Bundesliga, England's Premier League and Spain's La Liga.  Of the 56 teams to have competed in the league, América has won the title 13 times, followed by Guadalajara (12), Toluca (10), Cruz Azul (9), León (8), Pachuca, UANL and UNAM (7).
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP]
What sport does Lobos BUAP Premier play? [SEP] Liga TDP  The Liga TDP is Mexico's fourth tier in the Mexican League System. The Liga TDP is divided into 17 groups. For the 2009/2010 season, the format of the tournament has been reorganized to a home and away format, which all teams will play in their respective group. The 17 groups consist of teams which are eligible to play in the liguilla de ascenso for three promotion spots, teams which are affiliated with teams in the Liga MX, Liga de Expansión MX and Liga Premier, which are not eligible for promotion but will play that who the better filial team in a sixteen team filial playoff tournament for the entire season.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]  In 1923 Thomas had been a trialist for Leicestershire County Cricket Club and between 1926 and 1929 during his time at Spurs he took up cricket coaching at Public Schools including Highgate, St Paul's and Berkhamsted. He coached Dutch football side HVV Den Haag between 1937 and 1939. After retiring from football he subsequently ran a pub and sports outfitters in St Albans. He was working as a builders' labourer in Southend-on-Sea when he died in 1949, aged 56.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]  Harry "Red" Batstone (September 5, 1899 – March 10, 1972) was a Canadian football player who played three seasons in the Interprovincial Rugby Football Union for the Toronto Argonauts and six seasons in the intercollegiate union for Queen's University. He was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame in the founding cohort in 1963, and into the Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1975.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]  Harry Jay Gibson (born 25 March 1993) is an English field hockey player, who plays as a goalkeeper for Surbiton and the England and Great Britain national teams. He was educated at Millfield.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]  When playing for Coventry & North Warwickshire Hockey Club in the 1960s, Cahill trained with Coventry City F.C., then managed by Jimmy Hill. Hill allegedly offered Cahill professional terms as an association footballer. In 1974 he helped Coventry & North Warwickshire win the Midlands League. He also played for Tamworth and eventually finished his field hockey playing career with Worthing, helping them to win the 1981 Sussex Cup when aged over 50. He continued playing in veterans competitions into his late 50s and also served as Worthing club captain between 1986 and 1990. At club level he often chose to play outfield as an inside-right. While playing in England, Cahill also represented Warwickshire, Staffordshire and Buckinghamshire at inter-county level.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]  Henri "Harry" Gerard Vriend (born 20 May 1938) is a former water polo player from the Netherlands, who competed at the 1960 and 1964 Summer Olympics; in both games he finished in eighth position with the Dutch Men's Team. His brother Wim played alongside Harry at the 1964 games. On 4 October 1963, Vriend married the Dutch swimmer Lenie de Nijs. He subsequently became a water polo coach and served as the head coach of the men's national team. Vriend later worked for NOS Studio Sport, a Dutch TV program, as a commentator.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP]
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP] Harry Clay Smith  Harry C. Smith (January 28, 1863 – December 10, 1941) was a newspaper editor and state legislator in Ohio. An African American, Smith was one of the strongest advocates for civil rights in the pre World War II era and was responsible for some of the strictest anti-lynching legislation in the country at the time. He served in the Ohio House of Representatives.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP] Harry Pulliam  Harry Clay Pulliam (February 9, 1869 – July 29, 1909) was an American baseball executive who served as the sixth President of the National League. He served from 1903 until his death in 1909.<ref name=obit/> He was president during the period in which the National League and the fledgling American League settled their hostilities and formed a National Agreement which led to the creation of the World Series.
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP] Langston Hughes  James Mercer Langston Hughes (February 1, 1901 – May 22, 1967) was an American poet, social activist, novelist, playwright, and columnist from Joplin, Missouri. One of the earliest innovators of the literary art form called jazz poetry, Hughes is best known as a leader of the Harlem Renaissance. He famously wrote about the period that "the Negro was in vogue", which was later paraphrased as "when Harlem was in vogue."  Growing up in a series of Midwestern towns, Hughes became a prolific writer at an early age. He moved to New York City as a young man, where he made his career. He graduated from high school in Cleveland, Ohio, and soon began studies at Columbia University in New York City. Although he dropped out, he gained notice from New York publishers, first in "The Crisis" magazine and then from book publishers, and became known in the creative community in Harlem. He eventually graduated from Lincoln University. In addition to poetry, Hughes wrote plays and short stories. He also published several nonfiction works. From 1942 to 1962, as the civil rights movement was gaining traction, he wrote an in-depth weekly column in a leading black newspaper, "The Chicago Defender".
What sport does Harry Clay play? [SEP] Harry Smith  Harry Smith is the name of:
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP]  Maxwell Griffin (born September 17, 1987 in Riverside, California) is a retired American soccer player.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP]  Maxwell is the younger brother of fellow professional soccer player Leonard Griffin. Griffin has also dabbled in acting, and featured in JoJo's music video for her 2006 hit song "Too Little Too Late" alongside several of his UCLA Bruins teammates.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP]  Griffin attended Littlerock High School and played college soccer at the UCLA from 2006 to 2009, where he racked up a litany of accolades, receiving a selection to the All-Pac-10 team, and an NSCAA All-Far West selection. He was also nominated for the prestigious Lowe's Senior CLASS Award, and as a senior led the team with four game-winning goals, moving him up to sixth in the all-time UCLA scoring record books. Griffin netted 28 goals overall in his career, increasing his total in each of the four seasons at the school and is one of just 18 players to have scored a hat trick for UCLA in its 43-year history. During his college years Griffin also played with the San Fernando Valley Quakes and the Los Angeles Legends in the USL Premier Development League.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP]  Griffin played high school basketball at Hyde Park Career Academy at Chicago, Illinois. He led his team to a 27–5 mark as a senior and averaging 17 points, seven assists and five rebounds per game. Griffin also earned South MVP honors in the Chicago Classic All-Star Game, scoring 28 points in just 13 minutes of action.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP]  Griffin officially retired from professional soccer in April 2014. On his official Facebook page, Griffin stated "After 22 years of playing soccer and these last 4 playing professionally, I've decided to hang up the boots. It's sad to think that I won't be playing as a career anymore, but I am beyond excited to be starting the next chapter of my life at the adidas HQ in Portland. I have met so many amazing people and created lifelong friendships along the way. So thankful and blessed to have had the support of my friends and family throughout my life and career. Also a huge thank you to PROficient Agency for creating so many opportunities for me as a player and making this a very exciting journey."
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP] Maxwell Award  The Maxwell Award is presented annually to the college football player judged by a panel of sportscasters, sportswriters, and National Collegiate Athletic Association head coaches and the membership of the Maxwell Football Club to be the best all-around in the United States. The award is named after Robert "Tiny" Maxwell, a Swarthmore College football player, coach, and sportswriter. Johnny Lattner (1952, 1953) and Tim Tebow (2007, 2008) are the only players to have won the award twice. It is the college equivalent of the Bert Bell Award of the National Football League, also given out by the Maxwell Club.<ref name=Hornung/><ref name=Blanda/>
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP] Robert Griffin III  Robert Lee Griffin III (born February 12, 1990), nicknamed RG3 and RGIII, is an American football quarterback who is a free agent. He played college football at Baylor, where he won the Heisman Trophy as a senior, and was selected second overall by the Washington Redskins in the 2012 NFL Draft.  Griffin set league records for the highest rookie passer rating and touchdown–interception ratio, while leading Washington to their first division title since 1999. He received Offensive Rookie of the Year and Pro Bowl honors, but was unable to duplicate his success due to a severe knee injury he suffered during the playoffs. Plagued by further injuries and inconsistent performances, Griffin lost his starting position in 2015 to Kirk Cousins, which led to Washington releasing him after the season. Griffin signed with the Cleveland Browns in 2016, but his tenure was also afflicted with injuries, resulting in his release by the season's end. After spending 2017 as a free agent, he joined the Baltimore Ravens in 2018 and played three seasons as a backup.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP] Archie Griffin  Archie Mason Griffin (born August 21, 1954) is a former American football running back. He played seven seasons in the NFL with the Cincinnati Bengals. As college football's only two-time Heisman Trophy winner, he is considered one of the greatest college football players of all time. Griffin won four Big Ten Conference titles with the Ohio State Buckeyes and was the first player ever to start in four Rose Bowls.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP] Heisman Trophy  The Heisman Memorial Trophy (usually known colloquially as the Heisman Trophy or The Heisman) is awarded annually to the most outstanding player in college football. Winners epitomize great ability combined with diligence, perseverance, and hard work. It is presented by the Heisman Trophy Trust in early December before the postseason bowl games.  The award was created by the Downtown Athletic Club in 1935 to recognize "the most valuable college football player east of the Mississippi", and was first awarded to University of Chicago halfback Jay Berwanger. After the death in October 1936 of the club's athletic director, John Heisman, the award was named in his honor and broadened to include players west of the Mississippi. Heisman had been active in college athletics as a football player; a head football, basketball, and baseball coach; and an athletic director.  It is the oldest of several overall awards in college football, including the Maxwell Award, Walter Camp Award, and the AP Player of the Year. The Heisman and the AP Player of the Year honor the "outstanding player", while the Maxwell and the Walter Camp award recognizes the "best player", and the Archie Griffin Award recognizes the "most valuable player". The most recent winner of the Heisman Trophy is University of Southern California quarterback Caleb Williams.
What sport does Maxwell Griffin play? [SEP] 2012 Orlando City SC season  The 2012 Orlando City SC season was the club's second season of existence. It is City's second consecutive year in the third tier of American soccer, playing in the USL Professional Division for their second season. In the 2011 season, Orlando City won the regular season and the playoffs. As of the 1 March 2012, there are approximately 3,500 season ticket holders for the 2012 season. They ended the season with winning the league title for the second consecutive year, but they lost in the Playoffs to the Wilmington Hammerheads in the Semi-final 3–4.
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP]  Yuri Koroviansky (Юрий Коровянский, Yuriy Korovyanskyy, 30 September 1967 – 8 March 2017) was a Ukrainian volleyball player who competed for the Unified Team in the 1992 Summer Olympics. He was 194 cm tall. He was French citizen from 2011 until his death.
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP]  Koroviansky was born at Horlivka and debuted in 1984 for VC Shakhtar Donetsk. He finished seventh with the Unified Team in the 1992 Olympic tournament. With the Soviet (or Unified Team) national team he won a World Cup in 1991, the European Championships of 1991 and a bronze medal in the 1991 World League. Koroviansky played in Greece from 1993 with AO Orestiada (Runner-up of the Greek championship and finished 4th in the CEV Cup final four). After one year in Greece, he signed in Cyprus for Paphiakos Paphos. He subsequently played in France with Tourcoing, Tours, Paris (won the French championship in 1997 ), Strasbourg, Halluin and he concluded his playing career in 2006 with Cambrai (in French 2nd league). He was the head coach of youth team in Cambrai.
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] 1 World Cup (1991) ; 1 European Championship (1991)
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] 1 Soviet Championship (1992) ; 1 Ukrainian Championship (1993) ; 1 French Championship (1998)
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP]  A pupil of Luhansk football. From 1984 to 1988 he played for Desna Chernihiv in the Ukrainian Second League. In 1989 he moved to Kosonsoy, where he became a silver medalist of the second league in 1990 (zone 9). In 1991 he returned to Desna Chernihiv. The first match in the championship of Ukraine was played on May 3, 1992 in the 13th round of the Ukrainian First League against Sumy "Motorist" (1: 2). In the fall of 1993 he played for Polissya Zhytomyr. In 1994 he became a player of Stal Alchevsk. For two seasons as a member of the Kirovograd team he won a
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] Yuri Koroviansky  Yuri Koroviansky (, , 30 September 1967 – 8 March 2017) was a Ukrainian volleyball player who competed for the Unified Team in the 1992 Summer Olympics. He was 194 cm tall. He was French citizen from 2011 until his death.
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] Deaths in March 2017  The following is a list of notable deaths in March 2017.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] Unified Team in the 1992 Olympic tournament. With the Soviet (or Unified Team) national team he won also a World Cup in 1991, the European Championships of 1991 and a bronze medal in the 1990 Championship. Cherednik played in Italy from 1992 with Centromatic Prato (winning the title of MVP of Italy's A1 League that year). He subsequently played for Macerata, Bologna, Ferrara and others, before returning to Russia in 2006, where he concluded his playing career in 2007 with the Spartak St. Petersburg. Yuri Cherednik Yuri Cherednik (, born 25 June 1966) is a Russian former volleyball player who
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] League with Celje Pivovarna Laško in the 2003/04 season. Eduard Koksharov Eduard Aleksandrovich Koksharov (, born November 4, 1975) is a Russian handball player. He was born in Krasnodar and is 1.85 m for 92 kg. He plays as a left winger and is the captain of his club. He retired from his national team in 2007. He came to Celje from SKIF Krasnodar in the 1999–2000 season, at the age of 23. His biggest achievements include winning the gold medal at the 1997 World Championships and winning the handball tournament at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, both with
What sport does Yuri Koroviansky play? [SEP] Yuri Petrov Yuri Anatolyevich Petrov (; born July 18, 1974 in Kryvyi Rih) is a former footballer who spent most of his professional career in the Netherlands. He played one game in the UEFA Cup 1993–94 for FC Lokomotiv Moscow. He was fired by FC Twente in 1998 because of alcohol abuse. He later played for clubs in Russia and Ukraine and returned to Holland to play for FC Volendam in 2006. He represented Russia at the 1993 FIFA World Youth Championship. Petrov was married to Tanya Kazakova and the couple have two children. They divorced because of him developing
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]  Albert Edward Harrison Cox (24 June 1917 in Treeton, Rotherham – April 2003) was a footballer who played as a left-back for Sheffield United and Halifax Town.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]  Cox was an All-Southern college football end for the North Carolina Tar Heels of the University of North Carolina. He was also a member of the baseball and track teams. At UNC, he was a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]  Ernest "Ernie" Cox (February 17, 1894 &ndash; February 26, 1962), was a star football player in the Canadian Football League. Cox was born in Hamilton, Ontario. He played for eleven seasons for the Hamilton Tigers. He died in his home town of Hamilton, and was inducted into the Canadian Football Hall of Fame in 1963 and into the Canada's Sports Hall of Fame in 1975.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]  Captain Albert James Prince-Cox (8 August 1890 – 26 October 1967) was an English football manager, player and referee, boxer, boxing promoter and a fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society. Prince-Cox became the Secretary-manager of Bristol Rovers in 1930. At the time of his appointment the club were struggling financially, but he was credited with turning the situation around through his use of the player transfer market to buy and sell players for a profit. He left The Pirates (a nickname that he introduced, along with the team's blue and white quartered shirts, which are still worn today) in 1936. He then spent two years working as a full-time boxing promoter, before being appointed as manager of Gloucester City in 1938, at which point he was one of the best-known sporting figures in the West of England. He died in late 1967, aged 77, in Bristol.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]  Cox joined Sheffield United from amateur side Woodhouse Mill United F.C., and quickly settled into the first team at Bramall Lane. He made his league debut against Blackpool at Bramall Lane on 20 February 1936, in a 1–0 win. In 1936, Sheffield United reached the FA Cup semi-finals, where they met fellow Second Division side Fulham. Regular left-back, Charlie Wilkinson was injured and unavailable to play in the semi-final, so the inexperienced Cox took his place. Cox remained "cool in defence" as Fulham were defeated 2–1. Wilkinson recovered from his injury in time for the final and manager, Teddy Davison, "opted for (Wilkinson's) age and experience" over Cox. Cox was often described as a 'bungle of energy' on the field of play. His partner at full-back in the late 1930s was Harry Hooper. Although World War II interrupted his career, Cox played on for several seasons after hostilities had ended, and became one of the most consistent left-backs in the Football League. In total he made 267 league appearances for the Blades with 5 goals. He was transferred to Halifax Town during the 1952 close season.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP] Albert Prince-Cox  Captain Albert James Prince-Cox (8 August 189026 October 1967) was an English football manager, player and referee, boxer, boxing promoter and a fellow of the Royal Meteorological Society.  Prince-Cox became the Secretary-manager of Bristol Rovers in 1930. At the time of his appointment the club were struggling financially, but he was credited with turning the situation around through his use of the player transfer market to buy and sell players for a profit. He left "The Pirates" (a nickname that he introduced, along with the team's blue and white quartered shirts, which are still worn today) in 1936.<ref name="ByrneJay"/> He then spent two years working as a full-time boxing promoter, before being appointed as manager of Gloucester City in 1938, at which point he was one of the best-known sporting figures in the West of England.<ref name="GlosEcho"/>  He died in late 1967, aged 77, in Bristol.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP] Elbert Frank Cox  Elbert Frank Cox (5 December 1895 – 28 November 1969) was an American mathematician. He was the first Black person in history to receive a PhD in mathematics, which he earned at Cornell University in 1925.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP] Cox (surname)  The surname Cox is of English or Welsh origin, and may have originated independently in several places in Great Britain, with the variations arriving at a standard spelling only later. There are also two native Scottish & Irish surnames which were anglicised into Cox.  An early record of the surname dates from 1556 with the marriage of Alicea Cox at St. Martin in the Fields, Westminster, London. Cox is the 69th-most common surname in the United Kingdom.
What sport does Albert Cox play? [SEP]
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP]  Luka Glavas (Luka Glavaš; born 20 January 1985) is a former Australian footballer.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP]  Luka Glavas played for Hurstville Zagreb from 2003 to 2004, Melbourne Knights from 2004 to 2005 and Sydney United from 2005 to 2006. In the 2006 NSW Premier League Grand Final against Blacktown City Demons, Glavas scored all four goals in a 4–0 win for Sydney United. Glavas then joined Perth Glory in mid-2006. Glavas scored his first ever A-League goal against Sydney FC on 29 October 2006. However, he was generally disappointing during his time at Perth Glory. At the end of the 2006–2007 A-League season, Perth advised Glavas that he was one of five players to be released by the club.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP]  Glavaš started his career at hometown club Iskra Bugojno and played a significant part of his career for clubs in Germany.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP] Luka Glavas (1985), Australian-born footballer ; Branimir Glavaš (1956), Croatian former major general and politician ; Marin Glavaš (born 1992), Croatian footballer ; Radoslav Glavaš (senior) (1863-1913), Herzegovinian Croat Franciscan ; Radoslav Glavaš (junior) (1909-1945), Herzegovinian Croat Franciscan ; Stanoje Glavaš (1763-1815), Serbian hajduk and hero ; Vlatko Glavaš (1962), Bosnian footballer Glavaš (Serbian Cyrillic: Главаш) is a Serbian and Croatian family name. People with the surname include:
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP]  13 February 2007, Sydney FC announced Glavas had signed with the club and was included in the squad for the AFC Champions League 2007. Glavas was released by Sydney at the completion of their ACL campaign and signed with Heidelberg United in the Victorian Premier League. In 2008 Glavas returned to Sydney United and returned to goalscoring form in the NSW Premier League. Glavas was Sydney United's top goalscorer in 2008, 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2013. The talismanic striker retired on 24 August 2014, playing his last match against Sutherland Sharks in the last round of the 2014 National Premier Leagues NSW.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP] 2011 NSW Premier League season  The 2011 NSW Premier League season was the 11th season of the revamped NSW Premier League.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP] Sydney United 58 FC  Sydney United 58 Football Club is a semi-professional soccer club and current NSW NPL Champions based in Edensor Park, Sydney, New South Wales Australia. The club was formed as Sydney Croatia in 1958, by Croatian Australians in the area, but it was renamed in 1993 as Sydney United after having the name Sydney CSC for a season.  Sydney United currently competes in the National Premier Leagues New South Wales, hosting matches at the Sydney United Sports Centre in Edensor Park. United are a sister club of the Melbourne Knights, a Croatian club in the NPL Victoria.  The club is a regular participant in the Australian-Croatian Soccer Tournament.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP] 2009 NSW Premier League season  The 2009 TeleChoice Premier League season was the ninth season of the revamped NSW Premier League. This season also marked the addition of the Bonnyrigg White Eagles Football Club, promoted from the Super League.  The 2009 regular season began on 1 March, and concluded on 9 August. The Finals series commenced a fortnight later. On 13 September the Sutherland Sharks Football Club won their second championship of the year when they defeated Marconi Stallions 4–1 in the Grand Final at CUA Stadium.  During the course of the season, all Premier League, Super League and Division teams were involved in the TigerTurf Cup, an equivalent to the English FA Cup with teams competing in a series of elimination games. On 16 August the Sutherland Sharks Football Club were crowned the Cup Champions after defeating Manly United FC 1–0. Section::::Clubs. Teams promoted from Super League: <br>  Teams relegated to Super League: <br>
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP] 2006–07 Perth Glory FC season  The 2006–07 was Perth Glory's second season in the Hyundai A-League and the club's 10th season since its inception in 1996.
What sport does Luka Glavaš play? [SEP]
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] China national league: 1983 Beijing Team
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP]  Guo Ruilong (born 1 December 1943) is a Chinese football coach and former footballer.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP]  His uncle is former Liaoning Hunters and Chinese national player Guo Shiqiang; coincidentally, he is also Ailun's coach at Liaoning and with the Chinese national team (the latter as an assistant). Guo is a graduate of Liaoning's Northeastern University.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP]  Born in Kunming, Guo returned to his hometown Beijing in 1946 after the Second Sino-Japanese War ended. He began his football career for Beijing Team's youth team and later graduated to the senior team in 1965. He became a football coach after his retirement in 1975.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP]  Guo played 49 games for Liaoning with average 34 minutes, 23.6 points, 4.9 rebounds, 5.8 assists, and 1.9 steals.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] Hebei F.C.  Hebei Football Club () is a professional Chinese football club that participates in the Chinese Super League division under licence from the Chinese Football Association (CFA). The team is based in Langfang, Hebei and their home stadium is the Langfang Stadium that has a seating capacity of 30,000. Their current owners are real estate developers China Fortune Land Development who took over the club on 27 January 2015.  According to Forbes, Hebei are the 7th most valuable football team in China, with a team value of $90 million, and an estimated revenue of $22 million in 2015.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] 2012 China League Two  The 2012 Chinese Football Association Division Two League season is the 23rd season since its establishment in 1989. It is divided into two groups, North and South. There are total 26 teams participating in the league with 13 teams in each group. The league is made up of two stages, the group stage and the play-off. The Group Stage is a double round-robin format. Each team in the group will play the other teams twice, home and away. It will start on April 20 and end on September 28. The Play-off Stage is a two-legged elimination. It will start in October. At the end of the season, the two finalists of the Play-off will qualify for promotion to 2013 China League One.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] Shenzhen F.C.  Shenzhen Football Club () is a Chinese professional football club that competes in the Chinese Super League. The team is based in Shenzhen, Guangdong and their home stadium is the Shenzhen Universiade Sports Centre that has a seating capacity of 60,334. Their majority shareholder is Property Development company the Kaisa Group who took over the club on April 12, 2016.  The club was founded on January 26, 1994, and was known as "Shenzhen FC" while they started at the bottom of the Chinese football pyramid in the third tier. After successive league title wins in the third and second tier of the professional football leagues, they were promoted to the top tier in the 1996 Chinese Jia-A League season. After only one season they were relegated, however they quickly regained promotion and started to establish themselves within the league before they won the rebranded 2004 Chinese Super League title, making them the first club to win all three divisions within the Chinese league pyramid. Since this achievement the club have struggled to match the same success and after 14 years experienced relegation to the second tier at the end of 2011 Chinese Super League season.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] 2013 Shanghai Shenhua F.C. season  The 2013 Shanghai Shenhua season was Shanghai Shenhua's 10th season in the Chinese Super League and 51st overall in the Chinese top flight. They also competed in the Chinese FA Cup losing in the third round.
What sport does Guo Ruilong play? [SEP] 2013 Guangzhou Evergrande F.C. season  The 2013 Guangzhou Evergrande season is the 60th year in Guangzhou Evergrande's existence and is its 46th season in the Chinese football league, also its 24th season in the top flight. The club won its third consecutive top-tier league title and became the first club in China to win the AFC Champions League.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]  Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk (born 26 March 1989) is a Turkish professional footballer who currently plays for Uşakspor.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]  team in the forward position. He became top goalscorer netting 30 goals in the Turkish Amputee Football League in 2018. Internationally, he took part at the European Amputee Football Championship in 2017 in Turkey and 2021 in Poland. He played at the 2018 Amputee Football World Cup in Mexico. He performed a hat-trick in the group match against Italy, and again another one in the final game against Spain. Güleryüz was awarded the ttiles Top goalscorer and the Most valuable player pf the tournament. Professionally playing for Etinesgut Sports Club in Ankara, Güleryuz sis a student of Physical Education and Sports at Istanbul University.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP] National team (A): 9 (1992–93); ; Olympic national team: 4 (1991); ; U-21 national team: 5 (1989). He appeared in national team in Sepp Piontek period, against Norway in April 1993 when the team lost the game 3-1; in 0-0 ended San Marino game; and, 0-1 lost Germany game (friendly game). Under Piontek's management the national team was not successful, but after that period could catch a take-off. Among his teammates were Hakan Şükür, Bülent Korkmaz, Aykut Kocaman, and Ünal Karaman and many other famous players of the time.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]  Öztürk was runner-up in the European Championship with the U-19 national team of Turkey. In 2010, he was called up to the Turkey national team under new coach Guus Hiddink, for preparation in the U.S., but did not earn any caps.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]  in Mengen, Bolu Province. In 2008, Gaziantep Polis Gücü played at the Eurohockey Men’s Club Champions Challenge IV held on May 8–11 in Moravske Toplice, Slovenia, and placed third. The team qualified for the participation at the 2013 Eurohockey Men’s Club Champions Challenge III held on May 17–20 in Bratislava, Slovakia. They became champion of the division defeating the teams from Finland, Denmark and Bulgaria. The team is promoted to one higher division for the next year's championship. Team member Orhun Özel scored 10 of the total 28 goals in four games, and was named Top Scorer of the tournament.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP] Amed S.F.K.  Amed Sportif Faaliyetler Kulübü, formerly Diyarbakır Büyükşehir Belediyespor, is a Turkish sports club based in Diyarbakır. The football club plays in TFF Second League since 2013-14 season. It is the football club of Diyarbakır Metropolitan Municipality.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP] Turkey men's national basketball team  The Turkey men's national basketball team () represents Turkey in international basketball tournaments. They are governed by the Turkish Basketball Federation. Their nickname is the "12 Dev Adam", meaning 12 Giant Men.  Turkey has competed at every major international basketball tournament. Their greatest achievements are winning two silver medals on home soil at the EuroBasket (2001), and FIBA World Cup (2010) respectively. Turkey has also won two gold (1987, 2013), one silver (1971), and three bronze (1967, 1983, 2009) medals at the Mediterranean Games. They also won the gold medal at the 1981 Balkan Championship.  Currently, Turkey stands 16th in the FIBA World Rankings.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP] List of Turkish Cypriots  The following is a list of people of full or partial Turkish Cypriot origin. This includes notable people in the community who were born on the island of Cyprus during the Ottoman era (1570-1878/1914), the British era (1878/1914-1960), as well as with the formation of the Republic of Cyprus (1960–present), the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus (1975–83), and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (1983–present).  In addition, due to the large Turkish Cypriot diaspora living outside of the island, there are many notable people of Turkish Cypriot origin who are living in Turkey, the United Kingdom, Australia, the United States, Canada, Jordan, Egypt, Germany, New Zealand, Norway etc. These individuals are listed with their citizenship (i.e. as "Turkish", "British", "Australian", "American", "Canadian", "Jordanian", "Egyptian", "German", "New Zealander", "Norwegian" etc.) alongside their notability and connection to the Turkish Cypriot community. Those with dual citizenship (i.e. who were born in Cyprus and have emigrated abroad) are listed as "Turkish Cypriot-born" alongside the citizenship they have acquired.
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]
What sport does Mehmet Gürkan Öztürk play? [SEP]
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP]  Johan George Cortlever (4 August 1885 in Amsterdam – 14 April 1972 in Amsterdam) was a Dutch backstroke swimmer and water polo player who competed in the 1908 Summer Olympics and in the 1920 Summer Olympics. In 1908, he competed in the 100 metre backstroke competition, but he was eliminated in the first round. He was part of the Dutch water polo team, which finished fourth in the 1908 tournament. Twelve years later he was a member of the Dutch water polo team, which finished sixth in the 1920 tournament.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] Nicolaas Cortlever, (1915–1995), Dutch chess master ; Johan Cortlever, (1885–1972), Dutch swimmer Cortlever is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP]  Alexander Baart (born 30 April 1988) is a Dutch field hockey player of Belgian descent who plays as a defender or midfielder for Dutch club Oranje-Rood and the Dutch national team.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP]  Sander Sebastiaan Robert Jan de Wijn (born 2 May 1990) is a Dutch field hockey player who plays as a defender for Kampong and the Dutch national team. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he competed for the national team in the men's tournament winning a silver medal. He also competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP]  Floris Maarten Alphons Maria Evers (born 26 February 1983 in Tilburg, North Brabant) is a field hockey player from the Netherlands, who won the silver medal with the Dutch national team at the 2004 Summer Olympics and at the 2012 Summer Olympics. He was the captain of the team at the 2012 Summer Olympics. He has played in all the top leagues the world of field hockey. After the London Olympics, along with Teun de Noijer, he retired from international hockey. In 2013, he played with the Ranchi Rhinos in the Indian hockey league.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] Nicolaas  Nicolaas is the Dutch equivalent of the masculine given name Nicholas. Before the 19th century the name was also written Nicolaes, while Nikolaas is an uncommon variant spelling. Most people with the name use a short form in daily life, like "Claas", "Claes", "Klaas", "Nico", and "Niek".   Notable people with the name Nicolaas or Nikolaas include:
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] Haije Kramer  Haije Kramer (24 November 1917, Leeuwarden – 11 July 2004) was a Dutch chess master and theoretician.  He began his chess career during World War II. He took 4th at Baarn 1940 ("Quadrangular", Salo Landau won), took 3rd at The Hague 1940 (George Salto Fontein won), took 4th at Leeuwarden 1940 (Nicolaas Cortlever, S. Landau and Lodewijk Prins won), and took 5th at Baarn 1941 (Max Euwe won). Kramer lost two matches to Euwe 3–5 in 1940 and 1–7 in 1941. He played in Dutch Chess Championship at Leeuwarden 1942.  After the war, he took 3rd in the Hoogovens tournament at Beverwijk 1946 (Alberic O'Kelly de Galway won), won at Leiden 1946 (C-tournament), tied for 6–8th at Zaandam 1946 (M. Euwe won), tied for 2nd–3rd with George Alan Thomas, behind C. Vlagsma, at Baarn 1947, shared 1st at Leeuwarden 1947, took 2nd, behind L. Prins, at Nijmegen 1948, won at Vimperk 1949, tied for 3rd-4t at Beverwijk 1951 (Hermann Pilnik won). He twice participated in zonal tournaments; took 11th at Bad Pyrmont 1951 (Svetozar Gligorić won) and took 8th at Munich 1954 (Wolfgang Unzicker won).  Kramer represented the Netherlands in Chess Olympiads seven times from 1950–1962, and won individual bronze medal at Munich 1958.  He is a co-author of "Losbladige Schaakberichten" and "Het middenspel" ("The Middle Game", The Hague 1952) with M. Euwe.  Awarded the International Master title in 1954 and the International Correspondence Chess Grandmaster title in 1984.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] Deaths in April 1995  The following is a list of notable deaths in April 1995.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] List of mini chess tournaments  This article lists some of the famous small chess tournaments in history.
What sport does Nicolaas Cortlever play? [SEP] April 5
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP]  A holding midfielder or central defender, Aguilar has played his entire football career for his hometown club Isidro Metapán.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP]  Mario Edgardo Aguilar Posadas (born July 31, 1984 in Metapán) is a Salvadoran footballer who currently plays for Isidro Metapán in the Primera División de Fútbol de El Salvador.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP]  Aguilar made his debut for El Salvador as a late substitute in an October 2008 FIFA World Cup qualification match against Haiti which proved to be his only international up until October 2010.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP]  Eduardo Aguilar Estrada (born 6 December 1976 in Puente Genil, Córdoba) is a field hockey midfielder from Spain. He finished in fourth position with the Men's National Team at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. He made his international senior debut for the national side at the 1997 Champions Trophy in Adelaide, South Australia. Aguilar played club hockey for Atlético San Sebastián.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP]  Encarnación traveled to Taiwan to play for the Macoto Cobras of the Chinese Professional Baseball League (CPBL) in the 2005 season. He was a CPBL All-Star and helped lead the team to a first half title.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP] List of Salvadorian Olympians  El Salvador first competed in the Olympic Games at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico. No athletes were sent to the 1976 Summer Olympics, and the nation took part in the boycott of the 1980 Summer Olympics. Excluding these two Games, El Salvador has participated in every Summer Olympic Games since 1968. It has never competed in the Olympic Winter Games. As of the completion of the 2012 Summer Olympics, 118 Salvadorans (93 male and 25 female) have represented their nation at the Olympics.<ref name=SRprofile/> No Salvadoran has ever won an Olympic medal.<ref name=SRprofile/>  Both the all-time youngest and oldest Olympic participants from El Salvador competed at the 1968 Games. Roberto Soundy (68 years, 229 days) finished 54th in the trap shooting event.  Fourteen athletes have competed in multiple Olympics. Eva Dimas, Evelyn García, and Juan Vargas, are the only Salvadorans to have competed in three Olympic Games. Andrés Amador, Kriscia García, Maureen Kaila Vergara, Luisa Maida, Gustavo Manzur, Golda Marcus, Francisco Suriano, Fredy Torres, Juan Antonio Valencia, Camila Vargas, and Salvador Vilanova have each competed in two Olympic Games.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP] Antonio Aguilar  José Pascual Antonio Aguilar Márquez Barraza (17 May 191919 June 2007) was a Mexican singer, actor, songwriter, equestrian, film producer, and screenwriter with a dominating career in music. He recorded over 150 albums, which sold 25 million copies, and acted in more than 120 films. He was given the honorific nickname ""El Charro de México"" (Mexico's Horseman) because he is credited with popularizing the Mexican equestrian sport "la charrería" to international audiences.<ref name="Mariachi Icon Antonio Aguilar Dies At 88" />  Aguilar began his career singing on the Mexican radio station XEW in 1950. That year, he signed a contract with the Mexican independent label Musart Records and became one of its best-selling artists. He made his acting debut with Pedro Infante in the drama "Un rincón cerca del cielo" (1952). He also portrayed Pancho Villa twice in film. In 1997, Aguilar was awarded the Golden Ariel for his "invaluable contribution and spreading of Mexican cinema".  His second wife was famous singer and actress Flor Silvestre. They had two sons, Antonio Aguilar Hijo and Pepe Aguilar, who also became singers and actors. His family is known as ""La Dinastía Aguilar"" (The Aguilar Dynasty).
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP] Mario Vargas Llosa  Jorge Mario Pedro Vargas Llosa, 1st Marquess of Vargas Llosa (born 28 March 1936), more commonly known as Mario Vargas Llosa (, ), is a Peruvian novelist, journalist, essayist and former politician, who also holds Spanish citizenship. Vargas Llosa is one of Latin America's most significant novelists and essayists, and one of the leading writers of his generation. Some critics consider him to have had a larger international impact and worldwide audience than any other writer of the Latin American Boom. In 2010 he won the Nobel Prize in Literature, "for his cartography of structures of power and his trenchant images of the individual's resistance, revolt, and defeat." He also won the 1967 Rómulo Gallegos Prize, the 1986 Prince of Asturias Award, the 1994 Miguel de Cervantes Prize, the 1995 Jerusalem Prize, the 2012 Carlos Fuentes International Prize, and the 2018 Pablo Neruda Order of Artistic and Cultural Merit.  Vargas Llosa rose to international fame in the 1960s with novels such as "The Time of the Hero" ("La ciudad y los perros", literally "The City and the Dogs", 1963/1966), "The Green House" ("La casa verde", 1965/1968), and the monumental "Conversation in the Cathedral" ("Conversación en la catedral", 1969/1975). He writes prolifically across an array of literary genres, including literary criticism and journalism. His novels include comedies, murder mysteries, historical novels, and political thrillers. Several, such as "Captain Pantoja and the Special Service" (1973/1978) and "Aunt Julia and the Scriptwriter" (1977/1982), have been adapted as feature films.  Many of Vargas Llosa's works are influenced by the writer's perception of Peruvian society and his own experiences as a native Peruvian. Increasingly, he has expanded his range, and tackled themes that arise from other parts of the world. In his essays, Vargas Llosa has made many criticisms of nationalism in different parts of the world. Another change over the course of his career has been a shift from a style and approach associated with literary modernism, to a sometimes playful postmodernism.  Like many Latin American writers, Vargas Llosa has been politically active throughout his career. While he initially supported the Cuban revolutionary government of Fidel Castro, Vargas Llosa later became disenchanted with its policies, particularly after the imprisonment of Cuban poet Heberto Padilla in 1971, and now identifies as a liberal. He ran for the Peruvian presidency in 1990 with the center-right "Frente Democrático" coalition, advocating classical liberal reforms, but lost the election to Alberto Fujimori. He is the person who, in 1990, "coined the phrase that circled the globe", declaring on Mexican television, "Mexico is the perfect dictatorship", a statement that became an adage during the following decade.  Vargas Llosa is also one of the 25 leading figures on the Information and Democracy Commission launched by Reporters Without Borders.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP] El Salvador at the 1968 Summer Olympics  El Salvador competed in the Olympic Games for the first time at the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, Mexico, from 12 to 27 October 1968.  Comité Olímpico de El Salvador sent a total of 60 athletes to the Games, 52 men and 8 women, to compete in 7 sports. Swimmer Salvador Vilanova was selected to carry his nation's flag during the opening ceremony.
What sport does Mario Aguilar play? [SEP] Pericos de Puebla  The Pericos de Puebla (English: "Puebla Parrots") are a professional baseball team in the Mexican League based in Puebla, Mexico.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]  Born in Belgrade, SR Serbia, SFR Yugoslavia, Vidović started playing football in the youth teams of FK Partizan. After that, he spent two years with FK Hajduk Beograd until January 2008 where he made his first senior appearances playing in the Serbian First League (2nd tier).
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]  Marko Vidović (born on 3 June 1988) is a Montenegrin footballer who plays as a left back.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]  In the season 2012-13 he played in Hungary in top league sides Budapest Honvéd FC and Egri FC.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]  In 2008, he joined FK Budućnost Podgorica in the Montenegrin First League which was coached by Miodrag Ješić. He was part of the squad that won the 2007–08 Montenegrin First League. While playing in Montenegro, he accepted a call to represent Montenegro on international level, having played 5 matches for the Montenegro national under-21 football team.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]  At the beginning of his youth career, Marković used to play as a defensive midfielder or winger through the categories of Radnik Bijeljina. Coming to Partizan's youth setup, he has adapted as a centre-back. As a player with strong team role effect, Marković has been ordered to lead youth team as a captain. During the match against Javor Ivanjica in March 2018, coach Miroslav Đukić moved him to right-back position, which allowed him to break through the opponent's side and make an assist for a goal. Standing at 6 ft 1⁄2 inches (1.84 m), and being a right-legged footballer, Marković is sometimes compared with Sergio Ramos.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP] List of Croatian sportspeople  This is a partial list of famous Croatian sportspeople.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP] 2018 SC Waterloo Region season  The 2018 season was SC Waterloo Region's eighth season in the Canadian Soccer League. Their season official commenced on June 2, 2018 in a home match against SC Real Mississauga. Overall the season was a successful one for the club as they finished in the top four by finishing third in the First Division. The previous time Waterloo finished in the top four was in 2015. In the postseason Waterloo defeated the Serbian White Eagles FC, but were eliminated in the semifinals to FC Vorkuta.The club's top goalscorer was Miodrag Kovacevic, a former player in the Serbian First League with six goals.
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]
What sport does Marko Vidović play? [SEP]
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]  Hwang Byung-Ju (born 5 March 1984) is a South Korean footballer. Since 2009, he has played for Daejeon Hydro & Nuclear Power FC. Hwang previously played for Daejeon Citizen in the K-League.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]  Hwang began playing in 2005, in the Taesongsan Sports Club.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]  Hwang Jong-Hyun (born 20 May 1975) is a field hockey player from South Korea, who was a member of the Men's National Team that won the silver medal at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney. In the final the Asians were beaten by title holders, the Netherlands, after penalty strokes. He is nicknamed Jonathan, and also competed at the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]  Hwang was one of the two flag bearers for the Unified Korea team at the 2018 Winter Olympics Parade of Nations with Won Yun-jong. Hwang is one of 12 North Korean female ice hockey players chosen to be admitted to the Unified Korea team to accompany South Korean players. Rules set by the International Olympic Committee mandate that for each game, three players of the team must be North Korean. Hwang was picked for all three games against Switzerland, Sweden, and Japan by Sarah Murray, the team's coach.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]  Hwang Jung-woon (born 10 April 1986) is a South Korean badminton player. Hwang who came from Suncheon, graduated from the Dong-a University, and later joined the Samsung Electro-Mechanics team. He was part of the Korean national junior team that won the silver medal at the 2004 Asian Junior Championships in the boys' team event, also won the bronze medal in the singles event. At the same year, he also competed at the World Junior Championships, clinched the silver medal in the mixed team event and a bronze medal in the singles event. Hwang represented his country at the 2006 Asian Games, and helped the team win the men's team silver medal. He also claimed the men's singles title at the 2006 Mongolia Satellite tournament.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP] Hwang Byung-ju  Hwang Byung-Ju (born 5 March 1984) is a South Korean footballer. Since 2009, he has played for Daejeon Hydro & Nuclear Power FC.  Hwang previously played for Daejeon Citizen in the K-League.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP] List of Hangout with Yoo episodes  Hangout with Yoo () is a South Korean variety show hosted by Yoo Jae-suk. Hangout with Yoo first aired on July 27, 2019.  As of September 10, 2022, 151 episodes + 1 pilot of Hangout with Yoo have aired.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP]
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP] FC Seoul  FC Seoul () is a South Korean professional football club based in Seoul that competes in the K League 1, the top flight of South Korean football. The club is owned by GS Sports, a subsidiary of GS Group. They play their home games at the Seoul World Cup Stadium.  The club was officially founded as Lucky-Goldstar Football Club in 1983, by the Lucky-Goldstar Group, and was later renamed as LG Cheetahs in 1990. Due to the K League decentralization policy in 1996, the club was relocated to the Seoul's satellite city of Anyang for eight years, before returning to Seoul in 2004. FC Seoul have won six K League titles, two FA Cups, two League Cups and one Super Cup. Internationally, the club reached the AFC Champions League final on two occasions, in 2001–02 and 2013.  FC Seoul is one of the most successful and popular clubs in the K League 1, with financial backing from the GS Group. In 2012, the club was evaluated as the most valuable football brand in the K League. Their main rivals are Suwon Samsung Bluewings, with whom they contest the Super Match.
What sport does Hwang Byung-ju play? [SEP] List of Squid Game characters  "Squid Game" () is a South Korean survival drama series created by Hwang Dong-hyuk for Netflix. The first season of the series features an ensemble cast including Lee Jung-jae, Park Hae-soo, HoYeon Jung, Wi Ha-joon, O Yeong-su, Heo Sung-tae, Anupam Tripathi, and Kim Joo-ryoung.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]  Mark Anthony Smalley (born 2 January 1965) is an English former professional footballer who made 167 appearances in the Football League playing for Nottingham Forest, Birmingham City, Bristol Rovers, Leyton Orient, Mansfield Town and Maidstone United. He played as a central defender.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]  Smalley was born in Newark-on-Trent, Nottinghamshire. When he left school in 1981, he joined Nottingham Forest as an apprentice, and turned professional two years later. He made his debut in the First Division on 19 March 1983, coming on as substitute for Kenny Swain in a 2–0 defeat away at Ipswich Town. Smalley played five times altogether for Forest's first team: one substitute appearance in the league in the 1983–84 season, and three games in September 1984 deputising for Paul Hart, one in the UEFA Cup, one in the League, and the third in the League Cup in which he sustained a hip injury. He spent the last few weeks of the 1985–86 season on loan at First Division Birmingham City, where
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]  Mark O'Meley (born 22 May 1981) is an Australian former professional rugby league footballer of Irish descent who played as a in the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s he also played junior footy for the northern lakes warriors and the Wyong Roos. He also went on to coach the Wyong Roos. An Australian international and New South Wales State of Origin representative forward, he previously played in the National Rugby League for the North Sydney Bears, the ill-fated Northern Eagles, the Canterbury-Bankstown Bulldogs (with whom he won the 2004 NRL premiership) and the Sydney Roosters. O'Meley also played for Hull F.C. in the Super League
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]  Paul Thomas Smalley (born 17 November 1966) is a former English footballer and coach. In July 2020 he was reappointed as the technical director of the Bangladesh Football Federation.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]  While attending Westfields Sports High, Minichiello played for the Australian Schoolboys team in 1999.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP] Roy Smalley III  Roy Frederick Smalley III (born October 25, 1952) is a former professional baseball shortstop, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from 1975 through 1987 for the Texas Rangers (1975–76), Minnesota Twins (1976–82; 1985–87), New York Yankees (1982–84), and Chicago White Sox (1984). Smalley was a switch-hitter and threw right-handed. His father, Roy Jr. was also an MLB league shortstop, and his uncle, Gene Mauch was a long-time MLB manager and infielder.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP] USC Trojans  The USC Trojans are the intercollegiate athletic teams that represent the University of Southern California (USC), located in Los Angeles, California. While the men's teams are nicknamed the "Trojans", the women's athletic teams are referred to as either the Trojans or "Women of Troy" (the university officially approves both terms). The program participates in the Pac-12 Conference and has won 131 team national championships, 108 of which are National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) national championships. USC's official colors are cardinal and gold. The Trojans have a cross-town rivalry in several sports with UCLA. However, USC's football rivalry with Notre Dame predates the UCLA rivalry by three years. The Notre Dame rivalry stems mainly from the annual football game played between these two universities and is considered the greatest intersectional rivalry in college football. The Trojans also enjoy a rivalry with the Stanford Cardinal. The USC Trojans are considered one of the most successful college athletic programs of all time.  USC will join the Big Ten Conference along with UCLA in 2024.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP] Anchorage Glacier Pilots  The Anchorage Glacier Pilots are a college summer baseball team in Anchorage, Alaska in the United States. They are part of the Alaska Baseball League, and a member of the National Baseball Congress.   The Pilots have won the NBC World Series in 1969, 1971, 1986, 1991 and 2001. They were formed in 1969. Team colors are royal blue and white.  Home games are played at Mulcahy Stadium, in Anchorage.  From 1970 to 1972, the Glacier Pilots were a member of the Big West Conference, along with the Alaska Goldpanners, Humboldt Crabs, Grand Junction Eagles, and Bellingham Bells.  Pat Doyle, a member of the team Hall of Fame, managed the team in 1990 and 1991.  Future major leaguers who have played for the Glacier Pilots include Mark McGwire, Rick Aguilera and Roy Smalley III.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP] 2000 Florida Gators baseball team  The 2000 Florida Gators baseball team represented the University of Florida in the sport of baseball during the 2000 college baseball season. The Gators competed in Division I of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) and the Eastern Division of the Southeastern Conference (SEC). They played their home games at Alfred A. McKethan Stadium, on the university's Gainesville, Florida campus. The team was coached by Andy Lopez, who was in his sixth season at Florida.
What sport does Mark Smalley play? [SEP]
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]  Michal Vacek (born March 10, 1987 in Prague) is a Czech bobsledder. Vacek competed at the 2014 Winter Olympics for the Czech Republic. He teamed with driver Jan Vrba in the two-man event, finishing 24th, and with Vrba, Dominik Dvořák and Dominik Suchý in the four-man event, finishing 16th. As of April 2014, his best showing at the World Championships is 12th, in the 2013 four-man event. Vacek made his World Cup debut in November 2012. As of April 2014, his best finish is 5th, in a four-man event in 2012-13 at Altenberg.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]  Born in Prague, he practiced a lot of sports as table tennis, football and skiing when he started with team handball at Slavia Praha in 1965. From the beginning he played in goal and was moved up to their senior squad at the age of fifteen. 1976, at the age of twenty-one, he made his first cap for Czechoslovakia; in total he played 218 caps and as a goalkeeper scored 4 goals (!) between 1976 and 1992. In 1979 and after 14 years with Slavia Praha, he moved to HC Dukla Praha which he helped to raise to one of the most prominent European clubs at that time, including the
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]  Josef "Pepa, Pepi, Joe" Maleček (18 June 1903 – 26 September 1982) was a very successful Czechoslovak ice hockey player during the period between World Wars. He was born in Prague and died in Bayport, New York, United States. In 1924 he participated with the Czechoslovak team in the first Winter Olympics ice hockey tournament. Four years later he was a member of the Czechoslovak team which participated in the 1928 Olympics ice hockey tournament. In 1936 he finished fourth with the Czechoslovak team in the Olympic ice hockey tournament. After communist takeover in Czechoslovakia (1948) he emigrated from the country. Maleček was also a tennis player, who competed in both the Wimbledon and French Championships in the early 1930s. Maleček also represented Czechoslovakia at the Davis Cup.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]  Michal Ondráček (born 8 June 1973) is a retired Czech football player who played in the Czech First League for FC Baník Ostrava and SK České Budějovice. He later played for clubs including MFK Karviná and FC Hlučín.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]  Václav Mašek (born 21 March 1941) is a Czech football player who played as a striker. He was a member of the Czechoslovakia national football team, for which he played 16 matches and scored 5 goals. In Czechoslovakia, he played 313 league matches and scored 127 goals for Sparta Prague. He was a participant in the 1962 FIFA World Cup, where his country were runners up, losing to Brazil in the final. In a match against Mexico, he became famous for scoring a goal after only 16 seconds of play, the fastest goal in World Cup history until forty years later, when his record was beaten by Hakan Şükür of Turkey, by scoring after 11 seconds in the 3rd place match of the 2002 FIFA World Cup.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP] Daniel Vacek  Daniel Vacek (born 1 April 1971) is a former tennis player from Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic who turned professional in 1990. He reached the quarterfinals of the 1995 Paris Masters, the 1998 Canada Masters and the 1998 Cincinnati Masters, and achieved a career-high singles ranking of world No. 26 in January 1996.  Vacek represented his native country at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta where he was defeated in the second round. The right-hander won 25 career titles in doubles with various partners, including the French Open in 1996 and 1997, and the US Open in 1997 with Yevgeny Kafelnikov.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP] Jan Vacek  Jan Vacek (yahn VAH-tseck; born 10 May 1976) is a retired professional male tennis player from the Czech Republic.  Vacek reached a career high ATP singles ranking of World No. 61, achieved on 5 August 2002. He also reached a career high ATP doubles ranking of World No. 115, achieved on 25 April 2005.  Vacek successfully played in all four Grand Slam tournament main draws, highlighted by reaching the fourth round at the 2002 Wimbledon Championships.  Vacek reached 21 singles finals throughout his career, posting a record of 13 wins and 8 losses, which includes a 4–3 result in ATP Challenger finals. Unseeded at the 2001 Brasil Open, he won the singles championship, defeating eighth seed Mariano Zabaleta "3–6, 6–4, 7–6" in the second round, sixth seed Alexandre Simoni "7–6, 6–2" in the semi finals and fifth seed Fernando Meligeni "2–6, 7–6, 6–3" in the final to claim his first and only ATP Tour title.
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]
What sport does Michal Vacek play? [SEP]
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]  The Colombian Cycling Federation or FCC (Federación Colombiana de Ciclismo) is the national governing body of cycle racing in Colombia. The FCC is a member of the UCI and COPACI.
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]  with Colombian riders enjoying international success. One of the factors cited for this success has been the establishment of the 4-72 Colombia cycling team (formerly known as Colombia es Pasión-Café de Colombia), which has developed several cyclists who have gone on to compete for UCI Worldteams. The government-backed Colombia-Coldeportes cycling team competed at the 2013 Giro d'Italia, and was the first all-Colombian team to do so for 21 years. The team aimed to secure UCI ProTeam status and compete in the Tour de France, however the team announced its disbanding in October 2015 due to the withdrawal of financial support from Coldeportes, the Colombian government's sports ministry. Riders who graduated to the UCI World Tour from the team included Esteban Chaves and Darwin Atapuma. High-profile
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]  de l'Avenir 1980 ; Víctor Hugo Peña, one of only three Colombian cyclists to have ever worn the yellow jersey in the Tour de France (2003). ; Rigoberto Urán, silver medal winner in the Men's Olympic Road Race, 2012 Summer Olympics, second place in the Giro d'Italia (2013, 2014), second place in the Tour de France (2017). ; Mariana Pajón, gold medal winner at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the women's BMX event, gold medal winner at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the women's BMX event. ; Carlos Oquendo, bronze medal winner at the 2012 Summer Olympics in the men's BMX event. ; Nairo Quintana, 2nd place overall in the Tour de France, 2013,
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]  place overall Tour of the Basque Country, 2013, 1st place overall Vuelta a Burgos, 2013, 1st place overall Giro d'Italia 2014, winner of Tirreno–Adriatico 2015, 1st place overall Vuelta a España 2016. ; Edwin Ávila, double track cycling world champion in the points race (2011,2014). ; Esteban Chaves, second place in the Giro d'Italia (2016) ; Carlos Ramirez placed third at the 2016 Summer Olympics in men's BMX ; Iván Sosa, 1st place overall in the 2018 Vuelta a Burgos ; Fernando Gaviria wearer of the Yellow Jersey in the 2018 Tour de France ; Egan Bernal winner of the general and youth classifications in the 2019 Tour de France and 2021 Giro d'Italia
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]  Cycling in Colombia became very popular with the beginning of the annual Vuelta a Colombia race in 1951, followed by the annual Clásico RCN starting in 1961. The triumphs of Martín Emilio "Cochise" Rodríguez in European cycling competitions increased the sport's popularity, which in turn helped to develop the Colombian Cycling Federation. Rodriguez was followed by professional Colombian cyclists known as the "Colombian beetles", which include up to this date Luis "Lucho" Herrera, Luis Felipe Laverde, Fabio Parra, Víctor Hugo Peña, Santiago Botero, Mauricio Soler. The "escarabajo" (beetle) nickname was coined by radio announcer José Enrique Buitrago, while watching Ramón Hoyos climb a hill ahead of French professional racer José Beyaert during the 1955 Vuelta a Colombia. Colombian cycling has enjoyed a renaissance in the early
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP] Sport in Colombia  Sports in Colombia includes professional sports leagues, as well as amateur leagues for numerous sports. Football, cycling, and roller skating are the most popular sports in Colombia. The Government of Colombia sponsors numerous individuals and teams nationally and internationally through the Ministry of Culture to enable sportspeople to represent Colombia in competition. The achievements of professional sportspeople are a source of national pride for Colombians.
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP] Sport in South America  Association football is the most popular sport in almost all South American countries. There are a wide range of sports played in the continent of South America. Popular sports include baseball, basketball, rugby league, rugby union, tennis, golf, volleyball, hockey, beach volleyball, motorsports and cricket. South America held its first Olympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 2016. Two years prior to this, major cities in Brazil hosted the 2014 FIFA World Cup. Section::::Association football. South America and Europe share the supremacy over the sport, as all national team winners in FIFA World Cup history and all winning teams at the FIFA Club World Cup have come from these two continents. Brazil holds the world record at the FIFA World Cup with five titles in total. Argentina has three titles and Uruguay have two. So far four South American nations have hosted the tournament including its first edition in Uruguay (1930). The other three were Brazil (1950, 2014), Chile (1962), and Argentina (1978).  South America is home to the longest running international football tournament; Copa América, which has been regularly contested since 1916. Uruguay have won the Copa America a record 15 times, beating hosts Argentina in 2011 to reach 15 titles (they were previously equal on 14 titles each during the 2011 Copa America).  The continent has produced many of the most famous and most talented players in history, including Ricardo Bochini, Alberto Spencer, Alfredo Di Stéfano, Arsenio Erico, Pelé, Teófilo Cubillas, César Cueto, Enzo Francescoli, Elías Figueroa, Diego Maradona, Carlos Valderrama, Iván Zamorano, Gabriel Batistuta, Ronaldo, Claudio Pizarro, Ronaldinho, Neymar, Luis Suárez and Lionel Messi.
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP] Colombia at the 2016 Summer Olympics  Colombia competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, from 5 to 21 August 2016. This was the nation's nineteenth appearance at the Summer Olympics. The Colombian Olympic Committee () sent the nation's largest ever delegation to the Games, with 147 athletes, 74 men and 73 women, competing across 23 sports.  Colombia returned home from Rio de Janeiro with a total of eight medals (three gold, two silver, and three bronze), marking the nation's most successful outcome in Summer Olympic history based on the gold medal count. Moreover, it matched the overall medal tally from the 2012 Summer Olympics in London. Two of these medals were awarded to the Colombian team in BMX cycling, boxing, and weightlifting, and one each in athletics and judo.  The nation's most significant highlight of the Games came from BMX rider Mariana Pajón, who successfully defended her title in the women's race and set a record as the first Colombian to receive two Olympic gold medals. Apart from Pajón, triple jumper Caterine Ibargüen, and weightlifting veteran Óscar Figueroa also helped the Colombians bring home more golds from Rio de Janeiro than ever before, with Figueroa becoming the first male from his country to top the podium at his fourth and final Olympics.  Boxers Yuberjen Martínez (men's light flyweight) and Ingrit Valencia (women's flyweight) brought home medals in their signature sport, last achieved at the 1988. Judoka and triple world titlist Yuri Alvear joined Pajon and freestyle wrestler Jackeline Rentería as the only Colombian women to win two Olympic medals, with a silver medal in the women's 70 kg division.
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP]
What sport does Colombian Cycling Federation play? [SEP] Colombia at the Olympics  Colombia first formally participated at the Olympic Games in 1932, and has sent athletes to compete in all but one edition of the Summer Olympic Games since then, missing only the 1952 Games.  Colombian athletes have won a total of 34 Olympic medals (five gold, thirteen silver and sixteen bronze) in eight different sports, with weightlifting and cycling as the most successful ones. Colombia is the third most successful South American country at the Olympic Games, after Brazil and Argentina respectively. The Colombian Olympic Committee was created in 1936 and recognised by the International Olympic Committee in 1948.  Shooter Helmut Bellingrodt won the country's first olympic medal, a silver at the Munich 1972 Olympics. Weightlifter María Isabel Urrutia became in the first Olympic champion representing the country at the Sydney Olympics in 2000. BMX rider Mariana Pajón is the most successful Colombian olympian, with two golds and one silver.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP]  The 1920–21 Northern Football League season was the 28th in the history of the Northern Football League, a football competition in Northern England.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP]  The 1921–22 Northern Football League season was the 29th in the history of the Northern Football League, a football competition in Northern England.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] Tow Law Town ; Langley Park The league featured 12 clubs which competed in the last season, along with two new clubs:
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP]  The 1922–23 Northern Football League season was the 30th in the history of the Northern Football League, a football competition in Northern England.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP]  The 1919–20 Northern Football League season was the 27th in the history of the Northern Football League, a football competition in Northern England. South Bank were crowned champions via a three team playoff after they finished the season on 38 points along with Bishop Auckland and Crook Town.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] Forest Green Rovers F.C.  Forest Green Rovers Football Club are a professional football club based in Nailsworth, Gloucestershire, England. The team compete in , the third tier of the English football league system, and have played their home games at The New Lawn since 2006, when they moved from their original home at The Lawn Ground.  Formed in October 1889, the club became founder members of the Mid Gloucestershire League five years later. Competing in various local league competitions for much of the 20th century, they won a multitude of league titles: the Dursley & District League (1902–03), the Stroud and District Football League (1911–12 and 1920–21), the Stroud Premier League (1934–35, 1935–36 and 1936–37), the North Gloucestershire League (1920–21 and 1921–22), and the Gloucestershire Northern Senior League (1937–38, 1949–50 and 1950–51). They became founder members of the Gloucestershire County League in 1968, before they were moved up to the Premier Division of the Hellenic League seven years later.  Forest Green won the Hellenic League in the 1981–82 season and lifted the FA Vase after beating Rainworth Miners Welfare in the final at Wembley. They spent the next 13 years in the Midland Division of the Southern League, and briefly competed under the name Stroud F.C. Reverting to the name Forest Green Rovers, the club won successive Southern League Southern Division and Premier Division titles in 1996–97 and 1997–98, winning promotion into the Conference. Reaching the 1999 FA Trophy Final, which they lost, they became the first club to reach the finals of both the FA Vase and FA Trophy. They also reached the 2001 FA Trophy Final, which again they lost. Twice reprieved from relegation from the Conference National due to the demotion of other clubs, the club was transformed following investment from green energy industrialist Dale Vince in 2010.  Under Vince's chairmanship Forest Green became the world's first vegan football club in 2015, and the New Lawn was installed with numerous eco-friendly innovations. Investment in the playing squad saw the club compete for promotion into the English Football League, which they achieved with victory in the 2017 National League play-offs, having been beaten in the semi-finals in 2015 and in the 2016 final. Forest Green were then promoted to League One in 2022 for the first time in their history, following a EFL League Two title win.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] List of former English Football League clubs  Former member clubs of the English Football League include football clubs who lost their status in the League by resigning, or by relegation, by becoming defunct, merging with another club, or joining the Premier League.  The English Football League comprises professional clubs from England and Wales, and was established in 1888 as The Football League (First Division). In 1892, the Second Division was formed. A Third Division was introduced in 1920, before being regionalised as North and South. In 1958 these became the national Third and Fourth Division. The Premier League superseded the First Division as the top-flight of the English football league system in 1992, with the other three divisions renamed the First, Second and Third Divisions. They were rebranded again in 2004 as the Championship, League One and League Two.<ref name="History of the Football League"/>  Until 1986, clubs could lose their League status by failing to gain re-election after finishing in the bottom four of the bottom division (fourth tier). From the 1986–87 season, the club finishing bottom was relegated to the Conference National (now National League), the highest level of non-League football, depending on the ability of the Conference champions to meet FA requirements. Since 2002–03, the bottom two clubs of League Two face relegation to the National League.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] National Football League  The National Football League (NFL) is a professional American football league that consists of 32 teams, divided equally between the American Football Conference (AFC) and the National Football Conference (NFC). The NFL is one of the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada and the highest professional level of American football in the world. Each NFL season begins with a three-week preseason in August, followed by the 18-week regular season which runs from early September to early January, with each team playing 17 games and having one bye week. Following the conclusion of the regular season, seven teams from each conference (four division winners and three wild card teams) advance to the playoffs, a single-elimination tournament that culminates in the Super Bowl, which is contested in February and is played between the AFC and NFC conference champions. The league is headquartered in New York City.  The NFL was formed in 1920 as the American Professional Football Association (APFA) before renaming itself the National Football League for the 1922 season. After initially determining champions through end-of-season standings, a playoff system was implemented in 1933 that culminated with the until 1966. Following an agreement to merge the NFL with the rival American Football League (AFL), the Super Bowl was first held in 1967 to determine a champion between the best teams from the two leagues and has remained as the final game of each NFL season since the merger was completed in 1970. The NFL has the highest average attendance (67,591) of any professional sports league in the world and is the most popular sports league in the United States. The Super Bowl is also among the biggest club sporting events in the world, with the individual games accounting for many of the most watched television programs in American history and all occupying the Nielsen's Top 5 tally of the all-time most watched U.S. television broadcasts by 2015. The NFL is the wealthiest professional sports league by revenue and the sports league with the most valuable teams.<ref name="Forbes 2" />  The Green Bay Packers hold the most combined NFL championships with thirteen, winning nine titles before the Super Bowl era and four Super Bowls afterwards. Since the creation of the Super Bowl, the New England Patriots and Pittsburgh Steelers are tied for the most Super Bowl victories at six each. The Los Angeles Rams are the defending league champions, as they defeated the Cincinnati Bengals 23–20 in Super Bowl LVI on February 13, 2022, to mark the end of the 2021 season.
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] EFL League One  The English Football League One (often referred to as League One for short or Sky Bet League One for sponsorship purposes, and known as the Football League One from 2004 until 2016) is the second-highest division of the English Football League and the third tier overall in the entire English football league system.  League One debuted for the 2004–05 season. It was previously known briefly as the Football League Second Division and for much longer, before the advent of the Premier League, as the Football League Third Division.  At present, Fleetwood Town hold the longest tenure in League One, last being out of the division in 2013–14 season when they were promoted from League Two. There are currently eight former Premier League clubs competing in League One, namely Barnsley (1997–98), Bolton Wanderers (1995–96, 1997–98 and 2001–2012), Charlton Athletic (1998–99 and 2000–2007), Derby County (1996–2002 and 2007–08) Ipswich Town (1992–1995 and 2000–2002), Milton Keynes Dons (as Wimbledon 1992–2000), Portsmouth (2003–2010), and Sheffield Wednesday (1992–2000).
What sport does 1920–21 Northern Football League play? [SEP] Fred Colling  Fred Colling (23 November 1897 – 15 April 1973) was an English footballer who made 16 appearances in the Football League playing as a forward for Darlington and Durham City. He also played non-league football for Darlington Railway Athletic, Shildon and Chopwell Institute.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]  1971), American minister ; Nélson Semedo (born 1993), Portuguese footballer ; Nelson Semperena (born 1984), Uruguayan footballer ; Nelson Senkatuka (born 1997), Ugandan footballer ; Nelson Rodríguez Serna (born 1965), Colombian cyclist ; Nelson Serrano (born 1938), Ecuadorian businessman ; Nelson Setimani (born 1990), South African cricketer ; Nelson Sewankambo (born 1952), Ugandan physician ; Nelson Shanks (1937–2015), American painter ; Nelson Sharpe (1858–1935), American judge ; Nelson Shin (born 1939), Korean film executive ; Nelson Shoemaker (1911–2003), Canadian politician ; Nelson Simmons (born 1963), American baseball player ; Nelson Sing (born 1995), Timorese footballer ; Nelson Skalbania (born 1938), Canadian engineer
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]  On May 29, 2012 Nelson signed a 1-year long contract with Cartaginés. Nelson made his debut for Cartaginés in the opening match in the Winter 2012, against Belén Siglo XXI playing the whole game. On 7 August, Nelson made assistance for the tie against Limón in Cartaginés 1-2 victory, after Hansell Arauz recovered the ball in 3/4 of field, passes to Nelson, running and leaves two opponents to make an assistance to Erick Ponce. On 28 October, Nelson created a play of a wall with Randall Alvarado, made attendance goal to Paolo Jimenez, in the game who lost Cartaginés 1-3 against C.D. Saprissa. On 7 November, he made a goal assisted by Eduardo Valverde in the game who lost Cartaginés 2-3 against C.S. Herediano. In January 2013, Nelson quit Cartaginés because he did not want to play out of his favoured defensive position and joined Saprissa on loan for a year. He moved to Pérez Zeledón only a few months later.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]  In Hockey WA's Premier League competition, Nelson plays for the University of Western Australia. In 2019, Nelson reached a career milestone and club record of 350 Premier League games.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]  Nelson played baseball in the Dominican from 2001 to 2003. In 2004, he signed with the New York Yankees, and posted a 6-3 win-loss record of the GCL Yankees in 2004. Nelson was subsequently deported and banned from reentering the United States after being involved in a marriage-for-visa scam. Nelson played for the Modi'in Miracle of the Israel Baseball League. In 2008, Nelson signed with Chunichi Dragons.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]  Nelson attended Lynn University, playing on the men's soccer team from 1996 to 1999. He compiled thirty-one shutouts and forty-nine wins in fifty-nine games. He was a 1999 NSCAA Division II Scholar All American. Nelson graduated with a bachelor's degree in international business. In 2000, Nelson began his post-collegiate career with the Cape Cod Crusaders of the USISL D3-Pro League. That season, he earned D2-Pro League Goalkeeper of the Year honors after posting a 0.73 goals against average. After the Crusaders were eliminated from the playoffs, Nelson joined the Boston Bulldogs of the USL A-League for three games, allowing only one goal. The Columbus Crew then called him up for
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP] Nelson Semperena  Nelson Eusebio Semperena González (born February 19, 1984 in Montevideo) is a Uruguayan footballer currently playing for Los Caimanes of the Peruvian Primera División.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP] Nelson (given name)  Nelson is an English given name, more commonly used as a surname.  It is derived from a patronymic name created from the given name "Nell," or for the Irish, "Niall".
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP] 2003 South American U-20 Championship squads  Below are the rosters for the 2003 South American Youth Championship tournament held in Uruguay. The ten national teams involved in the tournament were required to register a squad of 20 players; only players in these squads are eligible to take part in the tournament.  Players name marked in bold have been capped at full international level.
What sport does Nelson Semperena play? [SEP]
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]  McPherson Meade (born 16 February 1979) is a West Indian cricketer. Meade is a right-handed batsman who bowls right-arm off break. He also plays football for the Montserrat football team as a goalkeeper. He was born on Montserrat. Meade appeared at Under-19 level for the Leeward Islands in 1997 and 1998, making a total of eight appearances for the team. Starting in 2004, Meade played club cricket in England for Chingford Cricket Club. In 2006, Montserrat were invited to take part in the 2006 Stanford 20/20, whose matches held official Twenty20 status. Meade made his Twenty20 debut for Montserrat in their first-round match against Guyana, with their first-class opponents winning the match by 8 wickets. Meade scored 21 runs opening the batting, before he was dismissed by Mahendra Nagamootoo. Meade continued to play club cricket in England for Chingford, who had by 2007 been promoted
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]  Born in Bradenton, Florida, Bruce Meade did not play softball as a youth. Meade started roller skating at the age of 8 and won a regional championship for boys 18 and under in the freestyle category. He was also on his high school track team and competed in High Jump and Pole Vault.
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]  James Gordon Meade Jr. (February 28, 1914 – August 7, 1977) was an American football player and coach and college athletics administrator. He played professionally as a halfback in the National Football League (NFL) for the Washington Redskins from 1939 to 1945. Meade played college football and lacrosse at the University of Maryland. After serving as a paratrooper in World War II, Meade was the backfield coach for the football team at Furman University from 1946 to 1951. He was also the school's athletic director from 1949 to 1951. Meade later helped to create the Peachtree City Recreation Department and was a board member of the McIntosh Arts Council in Peachtree City, Georgia. Meade was inducted into the University of Maryland Athletic Hall of Fame in 1982.
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]  the Essex Premier League. In January 2008, Montserrat were invited to part in the 2008 Stanford 20/20, where Meade made two further Twenty20 appearances, in a preliminary round match against the Turks and Caicos Islands and in a first round match against Nevis. Against the Turks and Caicos Islands, he took the wickets of Henry Saunders and Chabbie Charlery, finishing with figures of 2/10 from four overs. He wasn't required to bat in Montserrat's nine wicket victory. Against Nevis, he took the wickets of Runako Morton and Joel Simmonds to finish with figures of 2/22 from four overs. In Montserrat's unsuccessful chase, he was dismissed for 9 runs by Tonito Willett. Later in 2008, he played for Chingford in the Essex Premier League, making seven appearances during the season. He continues to play minor matches for Montserrat and is the current captain of the team.
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]  Bruce Allen Meade (born c. 1951) is an inductee of both the Independent Softball Association Hall of Fame and the United States Slo-pitch Softball Association Hall of Fame. Meade has also been named to the All-World Tournament Team seven times. During his career, he appeared in nine ISA Super Major World Tournaments and three Senior World Tournaments.
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP] Meade (surname)  Meade is a surname, and may refer to:
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP] Waltzing Matilda  "Waltzing Matilda" is a song developed in the Australian style of poetry and folk music called a bush ballad. It has been described as the country's "unofficial national anthem".  The title was Australian slang for travelling on foot (waltzing) with one's belongings in a "matilda" (swag) slung over one's back. The song narrates the story of an itinerant worker, or "swagman", making a drink of billy tea at a bush camp and capturing a stray jumbuck (sheep) to eat. When the jumbuck's owner, a squatter (grazier), and three troopers (mounted policemen) pursue the swagman for theft, he declares "You'll never catch me alive!" and commits suicide by drowning himself in a nearby billabong (watering hole), after which his ghost haunts the site.  The song, published in 1903, is quite different from the original song, written in 1895. The original lyrics were composed in 1895 by Australian poet, Banjo Paterson, to suit a tune played by Christina Macpherson. In 1903, Marie Cowan changed some of the lyrics, wrote a completely new variation of the tune and published this as sheet music. This is the version of “Waltzing Matilda” that we sing today. Extensive folklore surrounds the song and the process of its creation, to the extent that it has its own museum, the Waltzing Matilda Centre in Winton, in the Queensland outback, where Paterson wrote the lyrics. In 2012, to remind Australians of the song's significance, Winton organised the inaugural Waltzing Matilda Day to be held on 6 April, thought at the time, to be the anniversary of its first performance.  The song was first recorded in 1926 as performed by John Collinson and Russell Callow. In 2008, this recording of "Waltzing Matilda" was added to the Sounds of Australia registry in the National Film and Sound Archive, which says that there are more recordings of "Waltzing Matilda" than any other Australian song.<ref name="ABC0604"/>
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP] Ambrose Burnside  Ambrose Everett Burnside (May 23, 1824 – September 13, 1881) was an American army officer and politician who became a senior Union general in the Civil War and three times Governor of Rhode Island, as well as being a successful inventor and industrialist. He was responsible for some of the earliest victories in the Eastern theater, but was then promoted above his abilities, and is mainly remembered for two disastrous defeats, at Fredericksburg and the Battle of the Crater (Petersburg). Although an inquiry cleared him of blame in the latter case, he never regained credibility as an army commander.  Burnside was a modest and unassuming individual, mindful of his limitations, who had been propelled to high command against his will. He could be described as a genuinely unlucky man, both in battle and in business, where he was robbed of the rights to a successful cavalry firearm that had been his own invention. His spectacular growth of whiskers became known as "sideburns," deriving from the two parts of his surname.
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP]
What sport does McPherson Meade play? [SEP] List of unsolved murders (1900–1979)  This list of unsolved murders includes notable cases where victims have been murdered under unknown circumstances.         </ref> The boys were identified as David and Derek D'Alton.         At the time of its discovery, Micheal Pagano saw a TV broadcast about the unidentified body. Micheal called the Strongsville police with the theory that it might be Linda, but was dismissed, being told that the victim was too old and likely too tall. After the body continued to remain unidentified, the remains were interred in an unmarked grave at a potter's field at Memorial Gardens in Highland Hills.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP]  Université Nationale du Bénin FC is a football club of Benin, playing in the town of Porto-Novo. They play in the Beninese Second division. In 1996 the team has won the Benin Cup.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP]  Currently the team plays at the 15000 capacity Stade Charles de Gaulle.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] Benin Cup: 2:1996, 2007
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP]  Association football, or soccer, is the most popular sport in Benin. Governed by the Benin Football Federation, the Benin national football team (Les Ecureuils ) joined both FIFA and CAF in 1969 as Dahomey. Dahomey became Benin in 1975.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] CAF Confederation Cup: 1 appearance ; 2008 CAF Confederation Cup – Preliminary Round
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] Benin national football team  The Benin national football team (French: Équipe nationale de Football du Benin), nicknamed "Les Guépards (The Cheetahs)", represent Benin in men's international association football and are controlled by the Benin Football Federation. They were known as Dahomey until 1975, when the Republic of Dahomey became Benin.  Benin have been affiliated with FIFA since 1962 and are a member of the Confederation of African Football since 1969. They have never qualified for the World Cup, but have participated at four Africa Cups of Nations in 2004, 2008, 2010 and 2019, never placing in the top two in the group stage at all of these occasions.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] Benin Cup  The Benin Cup is the top knockout tournament of the Beninese football. It was created in 1974.  "No Cup between 1975 and 1977"
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship squads  Below are the squads for the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship tournament in the Netherlands as stated at FIFA.com. Players name marked in bold went on to earn full international caps.
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP]
What sport does Université Nationale du Bénin FC play? [SEP] List of top-division football clubs in CAF countries  This is a list of top-division association football clubs in CAF countries. CAF, the African football confederation, includes all African countries as members.  The French Overseas Department of Réunion and the autonomous island of Zanzibar have their own football associations which are associate members of CAF (but not members of FIFA). Mayotte, a French Overseas Territory, Saint Helena, a British Overseas Territory, and Western Sahara, a disputed territory, are not members of CAF or any other football confederation.  Each of the CAF member countries have their own football league systems. The clubs playing in each top-level league compete for the title as the country's club champions, and also for places in next season's CAF club competitions, i.e., the CAF Champions League and the CAF Confederation Cup. Due to promotion and relegation, the clubs playing in the top-level league in many countries are different every season.  The champions of the previous season in each country are listed in bold.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP]  The 2012 Uzbekistan First League was the 21st season of 2nd level football in Uzbekistan since 1992. It is split in an Eastern and Western zone, each featuring 12 teams.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] }
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP]  Uzbekistan Second League is the third highest football league in Uzbekistan. In second phase of the season 11 teams participated for promotion to higher league level.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP]  League consists of two regional groups: zone "East" and "West". The season comprises two phases. The first phase consists of a regular home-and-away schedule: each team plays the other teams twice. The top eight teams of the first phase from each zone will be merged in one tournament and compete for the championship. The bottom four teams of each zone after first phase will play each other to remain in first league. The draw of the 2012 season was held on 29 February 2012. First League joined Bukhoro-2, Neftchi Khamza, Yuzhanin Navoi, Zaamin from Second League, Lokomotiv BFK and Pakhtakor-2. Imkon-Oltiariq club is replaced by Qo'qon 1912 (former Bunyodkor Qo'qon 1912) and Lokomotiv BFK by FK Atlaschi because of lack of the financial support. FC Yoshlik is replaced in 2nd phase of championship by FK Registon because of club's debts to its players and coaching staff. On August 29, 2012 Yuzhanin Navoi renamed to Zarafshon Navoi.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP]  Last updated: 11 July 2012 Source: Uzbekistan First League
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] 2012 Uzbekistan Second League  Uzbekistan Second League is the third highest football league in Uzbekistan. In second phase of the season 11 teams participated for promotion to higher league level.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] Sport in Uzbekistan  Over the centuries, Uzbekistan has had a tradition of fostering equestrians and wrestlers ("palvins"). Some of the sports that originate in the country are the kurash, which is a type of upright wrestling. Other types of wrestling are belbogli kurash, turon, and boyqurgan all having the same origins. Other popular sports in Uzbekistan are football, basketball, boxing, wrestling, and judo.  Uzbekistan's capital Tashkent will host the 2025 Asian Youth Games.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] Peter Odemwingie  Peter Osaze Odemwingie (born 15 July 1981) is a retired Nigerian professional footballer who played as a forward and winger.  Odemwingie grew up in Uzbekistan and Russia and began his career with Bendel Insurance in the Nigeria Premier League. He then earned a move to European football with Belgian side La Louvière where he spent three seasons winning the Belgian Cup before moving to French side Lille. Odemwingie scored 26 goals for Lille and also playing in the UEFA Champions League with the side, which prompted Lokomotiv Moscow to pay a fee of £10 million for his services in July 2007. He scored 23 times in three-and-a-half years for Lokomotiv before leaving for English side West Bromwich Albion in August 2010. He scored 30 Premier League goals for the Baggies which won him three Premier League Player of the Month awards. A failed move to Queens Park Rangers saw him fall out of favour with Steve Clarke and he was sold to Cardiff City in August 2013 for a fee of £2.25 million. He spent six months at Cardiff before joining Stoke City in a player-exchange with Kenwyne Jones in January 2014.  Odemwingie made his debut for the Nigeria national team in a friendly against Kenya in May 2002 and has represented the country over 60 times, including at two World Cups and four Africa Cup of Nations, as well as winning silver at the 2008 Olympics.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] Uzbekistan Football Association  The Uzbekistan Football Association () is the governing body of football in Uzbekistan, controlling the Uzbekistan national team.
What sport does 2012 Uzbekistan First League play? [SEP] List of Uzbek football transfers 2012  This is a list of 2012 Uzbekistan PFL and 2012 First League transfers in the year 2012 by club. Only transfers of the Uzbek League and First League are provided. Start of the season was March 2012.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP]  Nevio de Zordo (sometimes listed as Nevio De Zordo, 11 March 1943 – 27 March 2014) was an Italian bobsledder who competed from the mid-1960s until the early 1970s. He won the silver medal in the four-man event at the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo. De Zordo also won four medals at the FIBT World Championships with two golds (Two-man: 1969, Four-man: 1970) and two silvers (Two-man: 1967, Four-man: 1965).
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP]  Pizzolitto began playing youth soccer with the Sporting-Patriotes of the Quebec Elite Soccer League in 1990. He was picked several times on the LSEQ all-star teams, was also proclaimed Defender of the Year. He helped helping Sporting-Patriotes reach the national club championship in the U15 category in 1990, and later went on to win the national title at the U19 level in 1994.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] Nevio Devide (born 1966), Italian former tennis player ; Nevio de Zordo (1943–2014), Italian bobsledder ; Nevio Marasović (born 1983), Croatian film director and screenwriter ; Nevio Orlandi (born 1954), Italian football manager ; Nevio Passaro (born 1980), German–Italian singer, songwriter and producer ; Nevio Pizzolitto (born 1976), Canadian soccer player ; Nevio Scala (born 1947), Italian football sporting director, coach and former player ; Nevio Skull (1903–1945), Italian businessman and politician ; Nevenko Valčić (1933–2007), Yugoslav cyclist nicknamed Nevio Nevio is a masculine given name which is borne by:
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP]  Juan Carlos Nevado González (born November 16, 1982 in Frankfurt am Main) is a German field hockey player of Uruguayan and Spanish descent. He was a member of the Men's National Teams that won the gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and at the 2006 World Cup. As of 2008 Nevado played for Hamburg's Uhlenhorster Hockey Club. In July 2016, he was part of the PwC Germany team who stole a 3 - 1 victory from PwC Manchester despite being out classed for the entire game. In another game against PwC Reading, Reading went 1 - 0 up. This is considered by many critics as the most memorable game on tour.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP]  Andrea Zorzi (born 29 July 1965 in Noale, province of Venice) is a former Italian volleyball player, who won two World Championships with the Italy men's national volleyball team (1990 and 1994). A 201 cm athlete, Zorzi was en effective spiker playing usually as opposite hitter. He was popularly known as Zorro. After his debut in Bormio in 1986, he totalled 325 caps with Italian national team. He was a silver medalist in the 1996 Summer Olympics and also competed at the 1988 and 1992 games. Playing for almost all the major volleyball clubs of Italy, including Maxicono Parma and Sisley Treviso, he won several titles: these include two Italian Championships (1990, 1996) and one European Champions League in 1995. In 1991 he was declared World's Best Player by FIVB. Zorzi 328 apps for national team of italy.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] Nevio  Nevio is a masculine given name which is borne by:
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] Deaths in March 2014  The following is a list of notable deaths in March 2014.  Entries for each day are listed alphabetically by surname. A typical entry lists information in the following sequence:
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] List of Olympic medalists in bobsleigh  Bobsleigh is an Olympic sport that is contested at the Winter Olympic Games. The sport was included in the first Winter Olympics in 1924 and has been held at every Olympics since, except 1960. The four-man event, which was first held in 1924, was switched to a five-man event in 1928. The two-man event was introduced at the 1932 Lake Placid games and a two-woman event was first contested at the 2002 Salt Lake City Olympics.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] Italians in Germany  Italians in Germany consist of ethnic Italian migrants to Germany and their descendants, both those originating from Italy as well as from among the communities of Italians in Switzerland. Most Italians moved to Germany for reasons of work, others for personal relations, study, or political reasons. Today, Italians in Germany form one of the largest Italian diasporas in the world and account for one of the largest immigrant groups in Germany.  It is not clear how many people in Germany are of Italian descent, since the German government does not collect data on ethnicity. However, based on the German "microcensus," which surveys 1% of the German population annually and includes a question on the nationality of the surveyees' parents, the number is at least 873,000 people. The total number (i.e. including third generation Italian Germans and beyond) is likely considerably higher.
What sport does Nevio de Zordo play? [SEP] B de Chile with San Luis de Quillota (2012). Cristián Taborda Cristián Daniel Taborda (born July 21, 1988 in Santa Fe, Argentina) was an Argentine footballer, who played as a striker. He once played for Ferro de General Pico. Taborda has played tournaments as the Primera B Nacional with Unión de Santa Fe (where his career began in 2009) and Gimnasia Mendoza (2015). The Primera B Metropolitana with Villa Dálmine (2013) and Barracas Central (2013). The Torneo Argentino B with Deportivo Roca (2010 and 2011-2012) and Gimnasia Mendoza (2014) and Torneo Argentino A with Crucero del Norte (2010), Rivadavia de
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP]  Wojciech Jarmuż (born January 5, 1984 in Słupsk) is a Polish footballer (defender) who last played for Polish Ekstraklasa side GKS Bełchatów.
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP]  Jakub Władysław Jarosz (born 10 February 1987) is a Polish volleyball player, former member of the Poland men's national volleyball team, participant of the Olympic Games (London 2012), 2009 European Champion, gold medallist of the 2012 World League, silver medallist of the 2011 World Cup. On club level, he plays for Polish team GKS Katowice, Polish Champion (2009).
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] Dawid Jarka, soccer player
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP]  Maciej Krzysztof Jarosz (born 4 March 1959) is a Polish former volleyball player and coach, former member of the Poland men's national volleyball team, participant of the Olympic Games (Moscow 1980), silver medallist of the European Championship (1977, 1979, 1981), three–time Polish Champion, currently working as a volleyball commentator.
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP]  Gerard Wodarz (10 August 1913 – 8 November 1982) was one of the best football players of interwar Poland. He was a multiple champion of the country (representing Ruch Wielkie Hajduki, which in January 1939 became Ruch Chorzów) and also played 28 games on the Polish national football team, scoring 9 goals.
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] Słupsk  Słupsk (; , ; formerly , ; also known by several alternative names) is a city with powiat rights located on the Słupia River in the Pomeranian Voivodeship in northern Poland, in the historical region of Pomerania or more specifically in its part known in contemporary Poland as Central Pomerania ("Pomorze Środkowe") within the wider West Pomerania ("Pomorze Zachodnie"), while in Germany the corresponding area is known as East Pomerania ("Ostpommern") within the wider Farther Pomerania ("Hinterpommern"). According to Statistics Poland, it has a population of 88,835 inhabitants while occupying , thus being one of the most densely populated cities in the country as of December 2021 . In addition, the city is the administrative seat of Słupsk County and the rural Gmina Słupsk, despite belonging to neither, while until 1999 it was the capital of Słupsk Voivodeship.  Słupsk had its origins as a Pomeranian settlement in the early Middle Ages. In 1265 it was given town rights. By the 14th century, the town had become a centre of local administration and trade and a Hanseatic League associate. Between 1368 and 1478 it was a residence of the Dukes of Słupsk, until 1474 vassals of the Kingdom of Poland. In 1648, according to the peace treaty of Osnabrück, Stolp became part of Brandenburg-Prussia. In 1815 it was incorporated into the newly formed Prussian Province of Pomerania. After World War II, the city again became part of Poland, as it fell within the new borders determined by the Potsdam Conference.
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] Gerard Wodarz Gerard Wodarz (10 August 1913 – 8 November 1982) was one of the best football players of interwar Poland. He was a multiple champion of the country (representing Ruch Wielkie Hajduki, which in January 1939 became Ruch Chorzów) and also played 28 games on the Polish national football team, scoring 9 goals. He was born in 1913 in Wielkie Hajduki (a settlement in Upper Silesia, which in January 1939 became part of the city of Chorzów), and died in 1982 in his hometown. Wodarz was a left-wing forward player. His career started in Ruch Wielkie Hajduki, in which
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] two years represented Ruch Chorzów. His career ended in 1947. Later on he tried to coach several Upper Silesian teams, but without major achievements. Gerard Wodarz Gerard Wodarz (10 August 1913 – 8 November 1982) was one of the best football players of interwar Poland. He was a multiple champion of the country (representing Ruch Wielkie Hajduki, which in January 1939 became Ruch Chorzów) and also played 28 games on the Polish national football team, scoring 9 goals. He was born in 1913 in Wielkie Hajduki (a settlement in Upper Silesia, which in January 1939 became part of the city
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] In 2011 moved to VfB Friedrichshafen. He won with club from Friedrichshafen German Cup 2012. Season 2012/2013 spent in VC Euphony Asse-Lennik and moved to Polish club Jastrzębski Węgiel in 2013. With this club Jarmoc won bronze medal of Polish Championship 2012/2013 and bronze medal of CEV Champions League 2014 after winning match against VC Zenit-Kazan. In 2014 left club from Jastrzębie-Zdrój. Thomas Jarmoc Thomas Jarmoc (born April 19, 1987) is a Canadian volleyball player of Polish origins. Jarmoc was born in Calgary, Alberta, Canada. His parents are Poles. They emigrated from Poland before the birth of their children. He
What sport does Wojciech Jarmuż play? [SEP] Athletics World Championships, competing in both the shot put and discus but failed to complete either event. After an extended absence for the sport, Jachimowicz represented Poland at the 2014 IPC Athletics European Championships in Swansea, taking the silver medal. He took a second silver a year later, this time at the 2015 World Championships in Doha, despite struggling with injury. In 2016, in the buildup to the Summer Paralympics in Rio, he travelled to Grosseto in Italy to compete in his second European Championships. A throw of 19.42 was enough to give him the gold medal in the discus.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]  Ricardo Nicolás Gónzalez Reinoso (born 31 August 1965), known as Richard González and nicknamed as Manteca (Lard), is a retired Chilean footballer who played as a defender during his career. He obtained one cap for the Chilean national side, making his only appearance on 8 September 1993 in a friendly match against Spain.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]  During his club basketball playing career, González played with the Argentine teams Santos Lugares and Club Atlético Palermo, one of the oldest clubs in Palermo.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]  González was a part of the Spain squad which won the bronze medal at the 2014 Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing, China. He played in two Junior World Cups. He was named the best player of the 2016 Junior World Cup.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]  Jair Alexander Reinoso Moreno (born 7 June 1985 in Cali, Colombia) is a Colombian football striker currently playing for Liga de Fútbol Profesional Boliviano club The Strongest.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]  As a member of the Netherlands national baseball team he played in the 2009 Baseball World Cup, 2013 World Baseball Classic , , 2014 European Baseball Championship , 2015 World Port Tournament , 2015 WBSC Premier12 , 2016 Haarlem Baseball Week ,  , and the 2016 European Baseball Championship. He played for Team Netherlands in the 2019 European Baseball Championship, and at the Africa/Europe 2020 Olympic Qualification tournament in Italy in September 2019.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP] Juan Reynoso (footballer)  Juan Máximo Reynoso Guzmán (born December 28, 1969 in Lima) is a Peruvian professional manager and former footballer. He started his playing career in his native Peru where he played for Alianza Lima from 1986 to 1990. He made over 230 appearances with Cruz Azul where he served as captain and let the team to a historic treble in the 1996–97 season. He later joined Necaxa and retired in 2004 after making playing over 75 games.   At the international level Reynoso capped for the Peru, with 84 appearances from 1986 to 2000, serving as captain from 1993 to 1999. He represented the team at five Copa America tournaments in 1987, 1989, 1993, 1995 and 1999. He also captained the team to reach the semi finals of 2000 CONCACAF Gold Cup his final tournament.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP] Mexico at the 2019 Pan American Games  Mexico competed in the 2019 Pan American Games in Lima, Peru from July 26 to August 11, 2019.  On July 4, 2019, sport shooter Jorge Orozco was named as the country's flag bearer during the opening ceremony.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP]
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP] List of people from the Dominican Republic  This is a list of famous or notable people from the Dominican Republic. The list also includes individuals of Dominican ancestry who reside overseas.
What sport does Ricardo Gónzalez Reinoso play? [SEP] Houston Astros minor league players  This a partial list of Minor League Baseball players in the Houston Astros system and the rosters of their minor league affiliates:
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP]  Miroslav Milutinović (Serbian Cyrillic: Mиpocлaв Mилутинoвић; born February 1, 1985 in Zvornik, SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, SFR Yugoslavia) is a Bosnian-Herzegovinian retired football defender who last played for Kolubara Lazarevac.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP]  Milutinov represented the senior men's Serbian national basketball team for the first time, at the EuroBasket 2015, under the team's head coach Aleksandar Đorđević. In the first phase of the tournament, Serbia dominated in the toughest group of the tournament, Group B, with a 5–0 record, and they then eliminated Finland and the Czech Republic, in the round of 16 and quarterfinal games, respectively. However, they were beaten in the semifinal game by Lithuania, by a score of 67–64, and they would go on to eventually lose to the tournament's host team, France, in the bronze-medal game, by a score of 81–68. Milutinov appeared in 6 games during the tournament, playing in only 3.5 minutes per game, the lowest on the team. At the 2019 FIBA Basketball World Cup, the national team of Serbia was dubbed as favorite to win the trophy, but was eventually upset in the quarterfinals by Argentina. With wins over the United States and Czech Republic, it finished in fifth place. Milutinov averaged 7 points and 2.3 rebounds over 8 games.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP] Profile and stats at Srbijafudbal.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP]  Milutinov played for the Serbian under-19 national team, at the 2013 FIBA Under-19 World Cup, in Prague, on a roster alongside Vasilije Micić, Mihajlo Andrić, Jovan Novak, Nikola Jokić, and Nikola Janković. He won the silver medal at the tournament, after losing 68–82 to the U.S. under-19 team, which featured Aaron Gordon, Justise Winslow, Elfrid Payton, Marcus Smart, and Jahlil Okafor. Milutinov averaged 10.7 points and 5.9 rebounds per game at the tournament.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP]  During his club career, Milutinović played for FK Bor, FK Partizan, OFK Beograd, FC Bayern Munich, RCF Paris, and Stade Français Paris. In the 1955–56 season, he scored two goals in the first ever European Champion Clubs' Cup match, a 3–3 draw between FK Partizan and Sporting Clube de Portugal, then scored four goals in the return leg which Partizan won 5–2 in Belgrade. In the quarter-finals second leg, he scored two goals in a 3–0 win over eventual champions Real Madrid, but that was not enough to overcome Real Madrid's 4–0 win in the first leg. In total, he played 213 matches and scored 231 goals for FK Partizan, winning two national cups (1954 and 1957). He then moved to OFK Beograd and later to Bayern Munich. In 1959, he underwent surgery for his ongoing lung problems. He stayed one year in Germany before playing in France.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP]
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP] FK Partizan  Fudbalski klub Partizan (, ; ), sometimes known as Partizan Belgrade in English, is a Serbian professional football club based in Belgrade. It forms a major part of the Partizan multi-sport club. The club plays in the Serbian SuperLiga and has spent its entire history in the top tier of Yugoslav and Serbian football having won a total of 45 official trophies, finishing in the Yugoslav league all-time table as second. Their home ground is the Partizan Stadium in Belgrade, where they have played since 1949. Partizan holds records such as playing in the first European Champions Cup match on 4 September, 1955, as well as becoming the first Balkan and Eastern European football club to reach the European Champions Cup final, when it did so in 1966. Partizan was the first Yugoslavian club to compete in the group stage of the UEFA Champions League.  The club has a long-standing rivalry with Red Star Belgrade. Matches between these two clubs are known as the Eternal Derby ("Večiti derbi") and rate as one of the greatest cross-town clashes in the world. Partizan also has many supporters in many of the former-Yugoslav republics and in the Serbian diaspora.  Their popular nickname 'The Steamroller' (Parni valjak) was originally used in the press report after the 7–1 hammering of Red Star at the 13th Eternal Derby on 6 December 1953. This nickname was later embedded in the lyrics of the club anthem.  Partizan Youth Academy is one of the most renowned and export-oriented in Europe. CIES (University of Neuchâtel International Centre for Sports Studies) Football Observatory report of November 2015 ranks Partizan at the top place of training clubs out of the 31 European leagues surveyed. CIES report of 2019 confirmed Partizan as the most productive training club in Europe, with 75 of their academy graduates currently playing across 31 European top divisions.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP] List of managers at the FIFA World Cup  This is a list of all managers who have appeared in the FIFA World Cup, the most prestigious tournament for national teams in association football. Over 370 individuals have managed or co-managed a team in at least one match in the competition. Section::::Statistics and notable achievements. Carlos Alberto Parreira is the manager who has taken part in the most editions of the tournament, six from 1982 to 2010. Parreira also shares with Bora Milutinović the record for most different nations managed in the World Cup, with five. Helmut Schön holds the records for both most matches managed (25) and most matches won (16), all with West Germany in 1966–1978.  Twenty-one managers have won the World Cup, with Vittorio Pozzo being the only one to do so twice, in 1934 and 1938 with Italy.  The first person who had the roles of both a player and a manager in the tournament is Milorad Arsenijević, who played for Yugoslavia in 1930 and then coached them in 1950. Three men who lifted the trophy as players went on to also triumph as managers: Brazil's Mário Zagallo in 1970, West Germany's Franz Beckenbauer in 1990 and France's Didier Deschamps in 2018.  The youngest manager to appear in the competition is Juan José Tramutola, who co-managed Argentina at age 27 in 1930, while the oldest is Otto Rehhagel, who was in charge of Greece at age 71 in 2010.  While many of the participating nations have on one or more occasions employed foreign managers for the World Cup, the two teams with the most appearances, Brazil and Germany, have always been led by natives. On the other side of the spectrum, Ecuador is the team with the most participations always coached by foreigners – four, always with managers coming from fellow South American countries. No foreign manager has ever won the World Cup, and only two have reached the final match: George Raynor of England, with Sweden in 1958, and Ernst Happel of Austria, with the Netherlands in 1978.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP] Sport in Serbia  Sport in Serbia plays an important role, and the country has a strong sporting history. The most popular sports in Serbia are football, basketball, tennis, volleyball, water polo and handball.  Professional sports in Serbia are organized by sporting federations and leagues (in case of team sports). One of particularities of Serbian professional sports is existence of many multi-sport clubs (called "sports societies"), biggest and most successful of which are Red Star (three world titles and seven European in various sports), Partizan (fourteen European titles in various sports), Radnički (three European titles in various sports) and Beograd in Belgrade, Vojvodina in Novi Sad, Radnički in Kragujevac, Spartak in Subotica.
What sport does Miroslav Milutinović play? [SEP] ISSF 50 meter rifle prone  50 meter rifle prone (formerly known as one of four free rifle disciplines) is an International Shooting Sport Federation event consisting of 60 shots from the prone position with a .22 Long Rifle (5.6 mm) caliber rifle. The time limit is 75 minutes for the entire match, including sighting shots, or 90 minutes if there is a need to compensate for slow scoring systems. In the 2013 ISSF rules the 60-shot prone match consists of 15-minute preparation and sighting time, followed by the match – 60 shots in 50 minutes for electronic scoring, and 60 shots in 60 minutes for paper targets.  The sport is based on the traditional "English Match" that also consisted of 60 shots in the prone position with a .22 rifle, but had varying distances between and .  Before 2017, the men's event was included in the Olympic program but starting with the 2020 Olympics this event has been removed to promote equal gender in Olympic shooting sports. Mixed gender doubles events were introduced to replace this event and two other individual shooting events. Now this event is contested in World Championships only. This includes a final for the top eight competitors. Beginning with the 2013 season, a new finals format was instituted, in which the qualification score is discarded, and the standings among the top eight shooters are determined by their finals scores alone. The course of fire was also changed significantly with the new rules, from the previous 10-shot and then 20-shots program into a 24-shot elimination format, with the lowest ranking shooter eliminated every two shots, starting from the completion of 12th shot.  The women's event is not Olympic but included in both the ISSF and the CISM World Championships. Since the final was discontinued in 2018, shooters with the same score are separated by a number of tie-breaking criteria, the first being the number of inner tens. Women's rifles may weigh up to , as opposed to for men, but after the switch from "standard rifles" to "sport rifles" this is now the only difference in equipment.
What sport does Best play? [SEP]  Best Player is a 2011 television film that aired on Nickelodeon on March 12, 2011. The movie stars Jerry Trainor and Jennette McCurdy, from the show iCarly. Filming started on October 24, 2009 in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada and wrapped up production on November 18, 2009.
What sport does Best play? [SEP]  in exuberant goal celebrations. Best played for three clubs in the United States: Los Angeles Aztecs, Fort Lauderdale Strikers and later San Jose Earthquakes; he also played for the Detroit Express on a European tour. Best was a success on the field, scoring 15 goals in 24 games in his first season with the Aztecs and named as the NASL's best midfielder in his second. He and manager Ken Adam opened "Bestie's Beach Club" (now called "The Underground" after the London subway system) in Hermosa Beach, California in the 1970s, and continued to operate it until the 1990s. Best caused a stir when
What sport does Best play? [SEP]  Ultimate, originally called ultimate frisbee, is a non-contact team field sport played with a flying disc, invented in New Jersey, USA, in 1968. Japanese players and teams rose to prominence in the 1990s, and today are among the strongest competitors in the sport globally.
What sport does Best play? [SEP]  the highest revenue out of any single professional sports league. Thus, the best association football and American football players are among the highest paid athletes in the world. Australian rules football has the highest spectator attendance of all sports in Australia. Similarly, Gaelic football is the most popular sport in Ireland in terms of match attendance, and the All-Ireland Football Final is the most watched event of that nation's sporting year. Rugby union is the most popular sport in New Zealand, Samoa, Tonga, and Fiji. It is also the fastest growing sport in the U.S.  with college rugby being the fastest growing  college sport in that country.
What sport does Best play? [SEP] Aunt Sally – An Oxfordshire game, it is the under arm throwing of the dolly (a truncheon shaped stick) at a suspended target. Each player in the team has 6 throws. The best score out of 24 wins. ; Bat and trap – An English bat-and-ball game, played in pub gardens mostly in Kent. ; Bog snorkelling – Competitors must complete two consecutive lengths of a water filled trench cut through a peat bog, in the shortest time possible. ; Coconut shy – Each player has 6 balls to throw at targets of coconuts balanced on raised stands. The player with the highest number of hits wins. ; Cooper's
What sport does Best play? [SEP] Seed (sports)  A seed is a competitor or team in a sport or other tournament who is given a preliminary ranking for the purposes of the draw. Players/teams are "planted" into the bracket in a manner that is typically intended so that the best do not meet until later in the competition, usually based on regular season. The term was first used in tennis, and is based on the idea of laying out a tournament ladder by arranging slips of paper with the names of players on them the way seeds or seedlings are arranged in a garden: smaller plants up front, larger ones behind.  Sometimes the remaining competitors in a single-elimination tournament will be "re-seeded" so that the highest surviving seed is made to play the lowest surviving seed in the next round, the second-highest plays the second-lowest, etc. This may be done after each round, or only at selected intervals.
What sport does Best play? [SEP] George Best  George Best (22 May 1946 – 25 November 2005) was a Northern Irish professional footballer who played as a winger, spending most of his club career at Manchester United. A highly skilful dribbler, Best is regarded as one of the best players in the history of the sport. He was named European Footballer of the Year in 1968 and came fifth in the FIFA Player of the Century vote. Best received plaudits for his playing style, which combined pace, skill, balance, feints, two-footedness, goalscoring and the ability to get past defenders.  Born in Belfast, Best began his club career in England with Manchester United, with the scout who had spotted his talent at the age of 15 sending a telegram to manager Matt Busby which read: "I think I've found you a genius". After making his debut aged 17, he scored 179 goals from 470 appearances over 11 years and was the club's top goalscorer in the league for five consecutive seasons. He won two League titles and the European Cup with the club. His style of play on the field captured the public's imagination, and in 1999 he was on the six-man short-list for the BBC's Sports Personality of the Century. He was also an inaugural inductee into the English Football Hall of Fame in 2002.  In international football, Best was capped 37 times for Northern Ireland between 1964 and 1977. A combination of the team's performance and his lack of fitness in 1982 meant that he never played in the finals of a major tournament. He considered his international career as being "recreational football", with the expectations placed on a smaller nation in Northern Ireland being much less than with his club. He is regarded as one of the greatest players never to have played at a World Cup. The Irish Football Association described him as the "greatest player to ever pull on the green shirt of Northern Ireland".  With his good looks, dark Beatle mop-top hair and playboy lifestyle, Best became one of the first media celebrity footballers, earning the nickname "o Beatle" by Portuguese press reporters after a stand-out performance for Manchester United in Lisbon in March 1966. However, his extravagant lifestyle led to various personal problems, most notably alcoholism, from which he suffered for the rest of his life. These issues affected him on and off the field, often causing controversy. Although conscious of his problems, he made light of them: "I spent a lot of money on booze, birds and fast cars – the rest I just squandered". After football, he spent some time as a football analyst, but his financial and health problems continued into his retirement. He died in 2005, aged 59, due to complications from the immunosuppressive drugs he needed to take after a liver transplant in 2002.
What sport does Best play? [SEP] Playoff format  There are a number of formats used in various levels of competition in sports and games to determine an overall champion. Some of the most common are the "single elimination", the "best-of-" series, the "total points series" more commonly known as "on aggregate", and the "round-robin tournament".
What sport does Best play? [SEP] Sport in Brazil  Sports in Brazil are those that are widely practiced and popular in the country, as well as others which originated there or have some cultural significance. Brazilians are heavily involved in sports. Football is the most popular sport in Brazil. Other than football, sports like volleyball, mixed martial arts, basketball, tennis, and motor sports, especially Formula One, enjoy high levels of popularity.
What sport does Best play? [SEP] Esports  Esports, short for electronic sports, is a form of competition using video games. Esports often takes the form of organized, multiplayer video game competitions, particularly between professional players, individually or as teams. Although organized competitions have long been a part of video game culture, these were largely between amateurs until the late 2000s, when participation by professional gamers and spectatorship in these events through live streaming saw a large surge in popularity.<ref name=2012Forbes /><ref name=FieldOfStreams /> By the 2010s, esports was a significant factor in the video game industry, with many game developers actively designing and providing funding for tournaments and other events.  The most common video game genres associated with esports are multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA), first-person shooter (FPS), fighting, card, battle royale and real-time strategy (RTS) games. Popular esports franchises include "League of Legends", "Dota", "Counter-Strike", "Valorant", "Overwatch", "Street Fighter", "Super Smash Bros." and "StarCraft", among many others. Tournaments such as the "League of Legends" World Championship, "Dota 2" International, the fighting game-specific Evolution Championship Series (EVO) and Intel Extreme Masters are among the most popular in esports. Many other competitions use a series of league play with sponsored teams, such as the Overwatch League. Although the legitimacy of esports as a true sporting competition remains in question, they have been featured alongside traditional sports in some multinational events in Asia, with the International Olympic Committee also having discussed their inclusion into future Olympic events.  By the late 2010s, it was estimated that the total audience of esports would grow to 454 million viewers, with revenue increasing to more than 1 billion, with China accounting for 35% of the global esports revenue in 2020. The increasing availability of online streaming media platforms, particularly YouTube and Twitch, have become central to the growth and promotion of esports competitions. The popularity and recognition of esports first took place in Asia, seeing significant growth in China and South Korea, with the latter having licensed professional players since 2000. Despite its large video game industry, esports in Japan is relatively underdeveloped, with this being largely attributed to its broad anti-gambling laws which prohibit paid professional gaming tournaments.<ref name="bloomberg olympics 2024"/> Outside of Asia, esports are also popular in Europe and the Americas, with both regional and international events taking place in those regions.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]  Cassia Pike (born 27 December 2000 ) is a Welsh professional footballer who plays as a striker for Liverpool F.C. Women of the FA Women's Super League. Pike was born in Porthmadog and has played for Liverpool her entire career.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]  Pike was born in Porthmadog, Wales. Pike studied BTEC Level 3 Sport (Developing coaching and Fitness) at Coleg Menai.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]  Jorge Antônio Dornelles Carpes known as Cassiá (born 14 June 1953 in São Borja) is a retired Brazilian professional football player, who played as defender and a manager.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]  Cassidie Cierra Burdick (born September 30, 1993) is an American basketball player for the Seattle Storm of the Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA).
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]  Pike joined Liverpool at the age of 9 and has stayed there ever since. In the 2017/18 season, Pike was promoted to the senior team. She made her debut on 5 December 2017 against Sunderland in a 1–0 loss in the WSL Cup coming on for Ashley Hodson in the 76th minute. On 27 January 2018, Pike made her home and league debut in a 2–0 win coming on in the 81st minute for Jessica Clarke.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP] Cassia Pike  Cassia Pike (born 27 December 2000) is a Welsh professional footballer who plays as a striker for Liverpool F.C. Women of the FA Women's Super League.  Pike was born in Porthmadog and has played for Liverpool her entire career.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP] Tamires  Tamires Cássia Dias de Britto (, born 10 October 1987), commonly known as Tamires, is a Brazilian professional footballer who plays as a left-back for Corinthians and the Brazil national team. She participated at the 2015 and 2019 editions of the FIFA Women's World Cup, as well as at the 2016 Olympic Games.
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]
What sport does Cassiá play? [SEP]
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]  Adrian Olah (born 30 April 1981 in Târgu Mureș) is a former Romanian footballer who played as a defender and as a midfielder. He is a currently the manager of the youth squad Juvenes Târgu Mureș.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]  Olah made his debut in the Divizia A during the 1998/1999 season at FC Național where he kept on playing until the summer of 2005, when he moved to FCU Politehnica Timișoara as part of the deal which had brought Gigel Coman, Gabriel Cânu, Marius Popa and Gabriel Caramarin to Timișoara earlier that year.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]  Adrian Ignacio Carambula Raurich (born 16 March 1988) is a Uruguay-born italian beach volleyball player. Born in Uruguay, he played football alongside Luis Suárez as a boy, until his family moved to Florida when he was a teenager. He qualifies to represent Italy through his maternal grandmother, originally from Turin. He is known as "Mr Skyball" for his unique serving style, in which he hits the ball high. The theme from the James Bond film Skyfall plays when he serves. Ranked third in the world as a pair, Carambula partnered Alex Ranghieri at the 2016 Olympics. Since 2018, Carambula plays together with Enrico Rossi.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]  Alexandru Lucian Olah (born 15 October 1993) is a Romanian basketball player for BC Timișoara of the Liga Națională. He also plays for the Romanian national team.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]   Benedek Oláh (born 29 March 1991) is a Finnish table tennis player. He competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics in the men's singles event, in which he was eliminated in the second round by Jonathan Groth. Oláh was born to Hungarian parents in Kalajoki, Finland, but grew up in Seinäjoki.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP] Adrian Olah  Adrian Olah (born 30 April 1981 in Târgu Mureș) is a former Romanian footballer who played as a defender and as a midfielder. He is a currently the manager of the youth squad Juvenes Târgu Mureș.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP] Adrian  Adrian is a form of the Latin given name Adrianus or Hadrianus. Its ultimate origin is most likely via the former river Adria from the Venetic and Illyrian word "adur", meaning "sea" or "water".  The Adria was until the 8th century BC the main channel of the Po River into the Adriatic Sea but ceased to exist before the 1st century BC. Hecataeus of Miletus (c.550 – c.476 BC) asserted that both the Etruscan harbor city of Adria and the Adriatic Sea had been named after it. Emperor Hadrian's family was named after the city or region of Adria/Hadria, now Atri, in Picenum, which most likely started as an Etruscan or Greek colony of the older harbor city of the same name.   Several saints and six popes have borne this name, including the only English pope, Adrian IV, and the only Dutch pope, Adrian VI. As an English name, it has been in use since the Middle Ages, although it did not become common until modern times.
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP] List of unsolved deaths  This list of unsolved deaths includes well-known cases where:  Cases where there are unofficial alternative theories about deaths – the most common theory being that the death was a homicide – can be found under: .
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]
What sport does Adrian Olah play? [SEP]
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP]  Diogo José Gonçalves da Silva (born 8 July 1986) is a Brazilian footballer who plays as a goalkeeper for CRB.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP] Nova Iguaçu ; Copa Rio: 2008 Vasco da Gama ; Copa do Brasil: 2011 ; Campeonato Carioca: 2016 Luverdense ; Copa Verde: 2017
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP]  In 2014, D'Silva represented the Goan–India team during the Lusophony Games. He scored the opening goal for Goa–India in the gold medal match against Mozambique as the Goan side won 3–2.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP]  David Miquel Mendes da Silva Gonçalves (born 4 August 1982) is a Dutch former professional footballer of Cape Verdean descent. During his career, he played for Red Bull Salzburg, AZ, Sparta Rotterdam, Ajax, Panathinaikos and NAC Breda. He was a versatile player who could play all over midfield and in defence, and was known for his dribbling technique as well as his tackling.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP]  Diogo Jorge Rosado (born 21 February 1990) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays for Leça F.C. as a midfielder. Formed at Sporting CP, he made 32 Primeira Liga appearances with Feirense, Vitória de Setúbal and Paços de Ferreira, as well as 20 in the second tier for Penafiel and Benfica B. He spent much of his career abroad, in brief spells in England, France, Cyprus, Angola and Romania.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP] Didi (footballer, born 1994)  José Diogo Macedo da Silva (born 3 February 1994), known as Didi, is a Portuguese footballer who plays for Vitória Guimarães B as a midfielder.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP] S.C. Braga (beach soccer)  Sporting Clube de Braga - Beach Soccer is a beach soccer club based in Braga, Portugal. The team was created in 2013 and in its first season won the Portuguese National Championship. In 2019 SC Braga won their sixth national championship, defending the titles won in the previous two seasons. They have also won the 2017, 2018, 2019 Euro Winners Cup. Among its players there are 5 Portugal national beach soccer team players. In 2019 they won the Mundialito de Clubes and the first Portuguese Cup. They are currently the defending world, European, and Portuguese champions as well as leaders of the world beach soccer club ranking.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP] Portugal national under-19 football team  The Portugal national under-19 football team represents Portugal in international football at this age level and is controlled by Federação Portuguesa de Futebol, the governing body for Portuguese football.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP] Brazil at the 2016 Summer Olympics  Brazil was the host nation of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro from 5 to 21 August 2016. This was the nation's twenty-second appearance at the Summer Olympics, having competed in all editions in the modern era from 1920 onwards, except the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam. Setting a milestone in Olympic history, Brazil became the first South American country to host the Summer Olympics, and the second Latin American host following the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico.  In this edition, Brazil beat both its previous highest number of gold medals obtained at one Olympics until this games (five gold medals in Athens 2004), and its record of total medals won at a Games (17 medals in Beijing 2008 and London 2012). Brazil won gold for the first time in two sports: boxing (Robson Conceição in men's lightweight) and football (men's team). It was also the first time a Brazilian athlete won three medals at one Games: Isaquias Queiroz in canoeing (two silvers and one bronze). Brazil also won its first ever medals in canoeing sprint, the silver that Queiroz won in C1-1000 m was the first in that sport.
What sport does José Diogo Macedo Silva play? [SEP]
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP]  Born in Agrinio, Koutsospyros began his playing career with local team Panetolikos.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP]  Christos Koutsospyros (Χρήστος Κουτσοσπύρος; born 14 October 1981) is a Greek footballer. He currently plays for A.E. Ermionida F.C..
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP]  Christos Routsis (Χρήστος Ρούτσης, born 26 October 1985) is a professional Greek football player, currently playing as a midfielder for Agrotikos Asteras in the Gamma Ethniki.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP]  Christos Kostis (Χρήστος Κωστής, born 15 January 1972) is a Greek former professional footballer who played as a second striker. Kostis is widely regarded to be one of the most technical players Greece has ever produced.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP]  Christos Kollias (born December 13, 1986 in Amaroussion, Greece) is a Greek basketball player. He is 1.90m (6 ft 2+ in) tall and plays the shooting guard position. He currently plays for Papagou B.C.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP] 2006–07 PAOK FC season  The 2006–07 season was PAOK Football Club’s 81st in existence and the club’s 48th consecutive season in the top flight of Greek football. The team will enter the Greek Football Cup in the Fourth round. PAOK will not be entitled to take part in the 2006–07 UEFA Cup. UEFA has confirmed to the Hellenic Football Federation that it is not in a position to admit PAOK to the competition as the club did not have a fixed licence by the deadline of the end of May 2006.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP] 2011–12 Football League (Greece)  The Football League is the second division of the professional football system of Greece. The 2011–12 Football League was held for the second year under the name Football League after previously being known as "Beta Ethniki".   The regular season began late, on 29 October, due to the Koriopolis scandal and the relegation of five teams for various offences. Promotion play-offs are scheduled to take place immediately afterwards, while the relegation play-outs were abolished by decision of 8 December 2011.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP] 2004–05 PAOK FC season  The 2004–05 season was PAOK Football Club's 79th in existence and the club's 46th consecutive season in the top flight of Greek football. The team will enter the Greek Football Cup in the first round and will also enter in Champions League starting from the third qualifying round.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP] 2005–06 PAOK FC season  The 2005–06 season was PAOK Football Club's 80th in existence and the club's 47th consecutive season in the top flight of Greek football. The team will enter the Greek Football Cup in the Fourth round and will also enter in 2005–06 UEFA Cup starting from the 1st Round.
What sport does Christos Koutsospyros play? [SEP] 2012–13 Iraklis F.C. season  The 2012–13 season was Iraklis first season in the Football League since 1980-81 and second overall. Iraklis finished 6th in the Football League, thus qualifying for the division's Play-offs. Their 2nd place in the Play-offs was not enough to earn promotion to the Greek Super League.  The "blue-whites" lost their single Greek Cup game to Proodeftiki and were eliminated from the competition early, in October 2012.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]  Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior (born 8 January 1985 in Arapongas), commonly known as Ademar Xavier, Xavier Ademar or simply Ademar, is a Brazilian footballer.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]  He started his career in 2001 as a junior for Londrina F.C. in Brazil. He was quickly selected to play for Brazil under 16's in 2001, in an international championship in France. Ademar also played for Vitória F.C. (Portugal) and Bulgarian Vihren Sandanski between 2005-2007. From 2008-2009 played for Rio Ave (Portugal), C.S. Buftea (Romania) and Gloria Buzău (Romania). Joined Xinabajul in September 2009. Between 2010 and 2013 he played at Moldovan side FC Milsami Orhei. Since 27 February 2014 he plays at FC Zimbru Chișinău.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]  Played for Brazil in 2001 at the age of 16.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]  Ademar is the cousin of fellow footballer Juninho.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP] Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior, commonly known as Ademar, Brazilian footballer ; César Aparecido Rodrigues, commonly known as César, Brazilian footballer born 1974 ; Gilberto Aparecido da Silva, commonly known as Gilberto Silva, Brazilian footballer born 1976 ; Johnathan Aparecido da Silva, commonly known as Johnathan, Brazilian footballer born 1990 ; Wilson Aparecido Xavier Júnior, commonly known as Juninho, Brazilian footballer born 1984 ; Leonardo José Aparecido Moura, commonly known as Leonardo, Brazilian footballer born 1986 ; Ronaldo Aparecido Rodrigues, commonly known as Naldo, Brazilian footballer born 1982 ; Pedro Aparecido Santana, commonly known as Pedrinho, Brazilian footballer ; Rodrigo Thiago Aparecido da Silva ; As given name ; Aparecido Francisco de Lima, commonly known as Lima, Brazilian footballer born 1981 ; Aparecido Donizetti, Brazilian footballer Aparecido is a Brazilian surname, may refer to:
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP]
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP] List of foreign Liga I players  This is a list of foreign players in the Liga I, which commenced play in 1909. The following players must meet both of the following two criteria: More specifically,  Clubs listed are those that the player has played at least one Liga I game for.  Seasons listed are those that the player has played at least one Liga I game in. Note that seasons, not calendar years, are used. For example, "1992–1995" indicates that the player has played in every season from 1992–1993 to 1994–1995, but not necessarily every calendar year from 1992 to 1995.  In bold: players that have played at least one Liga I game in the current season (2022–2023) and the clubs they've played for. They include players that have subsequently left the club, but do not include current players of a Liga I club that have not played a Liga I game in the current season.
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP] Ademar da Silva Braga Júnior Ademar da Silva Braga Júnior (born 12 August 1976) is a former Brazilian footballer. Braga started his career at hometown club Flamengo, one of the most successful Brazilian team. He played his only match (exclude State competition) at 1997 Copa do Brasil. He then played for Americano. In 2002, he was signed by Centro de Futebol Zico Sociedade Esportiva, the club found by Brazilian legend Zico, re-joined former teammate Felipe Veras. Both player left the club in late 2002, which Braga joined Hungarian top division team Békéscsabai Előre. He then returned to Brazil. In June
What sport does Ademar Aparecido Xavier Júnior play? [SEP] Wilson Aparecido Xavier Júnior Wilson Aparecido Xavier Júnior (born 15 March 1984), commonly known as Juninho, is a Brazilian footballer who plays as a midfielder for Ihan. Born in Arapongas, Paraná, Juninho started his career at Londrina Junior Team, the youth team of Londrina (they later became two separate entities). He played once in the national cup in 2004. He was then loaned to Serie A team Chievo but played for its youth team. As Italy prevented signing non-EU players, he only trialled with the club and never signed for them officially. In September he was loaned to Domžale from
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP]  George Harold Douglas (18 August 1893 – 1979) was an English professional association footballer who played as a winger. He played over 300 matches and scored 23 goals in the Football League. He moved into non-league football in 1928 as player/manager of Tunbridge Wells Rangers until 1930, when he moved to Dover Athletic.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP]  George Douglas (born c. 1869) was a Scottish professional golfer. Douglas tied for third place in the 1896 U.S. Open, held 18 July 1896 at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, New York.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP]  John Raymond Douglas (born 24 October 1951 in Brunswick East) is a former Australian sportsman who played Australian rules football in the Victorian Football League (VFL) with North Melbourne during the 1970s and first-class cricket for Victoria. From the Coburg Amateurs originally, Douglas made his VFL debut in the opening round of the 1972 season against St Kilda, whose Brownlow Medal rover Ross Smith was celebrating his 200th game. He played six further games that year and did not appear again until 1975, when North Melbourne won their inaugural premiership with Douglas taking the field three times during the home and away season. He finished his football career after playing just two games in 1976, to finish with 12 games and eight goals for North Melbourne. A right-arm fast-medium pace
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP]  Douglas Chiarotti (born November 10, 1970), known as Douglas, is a Brazilian former volleyball player who competed in the 1992 Summer Olympics and in the 2000 Summer Olympics. He was born in Santo André, São Paulo, Brazil. In 1992 he was part of the Brazilian team which won the gold medal in the Olympic tournament. He played six matches. Eight years later he finished sixth with the Brazilian team in the 2000 Olympic tournament. He played all eight matches.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP]  Douglas was born in Scotland, circa 1869.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP] Carl Douglas  Carlton George Douglas (born 10 May 1942) is a Jamaican recording artist based in the UK who is best known for the 1974 disco single "Kung Fu Fighting".
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP] Merrill Douglas  Merrill George Douglas (born March 15, 1936 in Salt Lake City, Utah) is a former American football running back in the National Football League for the Chicago Bears, Dallas Cowboys, and Philadelphia Eagles. He played college football at the University of Utah.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP] George Douglas (golfer)  George Douglas (born c. 1869) was a Scottish professional golfer. Douglas tied for third place in the 1896 U.S. Open, held 18 July 1896 at Shinnecock Hills Golf Club in Southampton, New York.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP] George Douglas (footballer)  George Harold Douglas (18 August 1893 – 1979) was an English professional association footballer who played as a winger. He played over 300 matches and scored 23 goals in the Football League. He moved into non-league football in 1928 as player/manager of Tunbridge Wells Rangers until 1930, when he moved to Dover United.
What sport does George Douglas play? [SEP] George Douglas (rugby)  George Douglas (birth unknown – death unknown) was a Scottish rugby union and rugby league footballer.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP]  Street played as a scrum-half for Aston Old Edwardians, Greater Birmingham (over a 20-year period) and North Midlands.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP]  Along with basketball, Street also excelled in baseball and football during high school. He moved with his family to Indianola, Iowa in the fall of 1987 and starred on the town's Class 4A team at Indianola High School. Street committed to play basketball at the University of Iowa as a junior in high school. Street played in 28 games as a freshman and averaged 5.0 points and 5.1 rebounds per game. As a sophomore, he averaged 10.6 points and 8.2 rebounds per game. In the first 15 games of the 1992&ndash;93 season Street averaged 14.5 points and 9.5 rebounds per game. In his final game he
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP]  Christopher Michael Street (February 2, 1972 &ndash; January 19, 1993) was an American college basketball player. He played as a power forward for the Iowa Hawkeyes from 1990 to 1993. A potential NBA player, he died in an automobile accident during his junior year at Iowa.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP]  As a youth, Street played in the 2000 and 2001 Quebec International Pee-Wee Hockey Tournaments with a minor ice hockey team from Burnaby. Street played his junior hockey with the Salmon Arm Silverbacks of the British Columbia Hockey League. After two seasons there, he joined the Wisconsin Badgers men's ice hockey program in 2005. He played 171 games for the Badgers between 2005 and 2010, scoring 47 goals and recording 94 points. Street was a member of the Badgers' 2006 national championship team, and shared the team's captaincy in his junior and senior seasons. He was named to numerous academic All-Conference teams. Street was named
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP]  Kevin Street (born 25 November 1977) is an English footballer whose playing position is as a Midfielder for Whitchurch Alport.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP] Ernest Hemingway  Ernest Miller Hemingway (July 21, 1899 – July 2, 1961) was an American novelist, short-story writer, and journalist. His economical and understated style—which he termed the iceberg theory—had a strong influence on 20th-century fiction, while his adventurous lifestyle and public image brought him admiration from later generations. Hemingway produced most of his work between the mid-1920s and the mid-1950s, and he was awarded the 1954 Nobel Prize in Literature. He published seven novels, six short-story collections, and two nonfiction works. Three of his novels, four short-story collections, and three nonfiction works were published posthumously. Many of his works are considered classics of American literature.  Hemingway was raised in Oak Park, Illinois. After high school, he was a reporter for a few months for "The Kansas City Star" before leaving for the Italian Front to enlist as an ambulance driver in World War I. In 1918, he was seriously wounded and returned home. His wartime experiences formed the basis for his novel "A Farewell to Arms" (1929).  In 1921, he married Hadley Richardson, the first of four wives. They moved to Paris, where he worked as a foreign correspondent and fell under the influence of the modernist writers and artists of the 1920s' "Lost Generation" expatriate community. Hemingway's debut novel "The Sun Also Rises" was published in 1926. He divorced Richardson in 1927, and married Pauline Pfeiffer. They divorced after he returned from the Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), which he covered as a journalist and which was the basis for his novel "For Whom the Bell Tolls" (1940). Martha Gellhorn became his third wife in 1940. He and Gellhorn separated after he met Mary Welsh in London during World War II. Hemingway was present with Allied troops as a journalist at the Normandy landings and the liberation of Paris.  He maintained permanent residences in Key West, Florida (in the 1930s) and in Cuba (in the 1940s and 1950s). He almost died in 1954 after two plane crashes on successive days, with injuries leaving him in pain and ill health for much of the rest of his life. In 1959, he bought a house in Ketchum, Idaho, where, in mid-1961, he died by suicide.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP] Ernest Borgnine  Ernest Borgnine (; born Ermes Effron Borgnino; January 24, 1917 – July 8, 2012) was an American actor whose career spanned over six decades. He was noted for his gruff but relaxed voice and gap-toothed Cheshire Cat grin. A popular performer, he also appeared as a guest on numerous talk shows and as a panelist on several game shows.  Borgnine's film career began in 1951 and included supporting roles in "China Corsair" (1951), "From Here to Eternity" (1953), "Vera Cruz" (1954), "Bad Day at Black Rock" (1955), and "The Wild Bunch" (1969). He also played the unconventional lead in many films, winning the Academy Award for Best Actor in 1956, for "Marty" (1955), which also won the 1956 Academy Award for Best Picture. Borgnine achieved continuing success in the sitcom "McHale's Navy" (1962–1966), in which he played the title character, and co-starred as Dominic Santini in the action series "Airwolf" (1984–1986), in addition to a wide variety of other roles.  Borgnine earned his third Primetime Emmy Award nomination at age 92 for his work on the 2009 series finale of "ER". He was known as the original voice of Mermaid Man on "SpongeBob SquarePants" from 1999 until his death in 2012. He replaced the late Vic Tayback as the voice of the villainous Carface Caruthers in both "All Dogs Go to Heaven 2" (1996) and "" (1996–1998).
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP] Jordan Burroughs  Jordan Ernest Burroughs (born July 8, 1988) is an American freestyle wrestler and former folkstyle wrestler who currently competes at 79 kilograms, and previously competed at 74 kilos. In freestyle, he was the 2012 Olympic gold medalist, is the reigning and a six-time world champion (nine-time medalist), three-time Pan American Games Gold medalist, four-time Pan American champion, and four-time US Open national champion, and has made the US World or Olympic Team on 11 occasions.<ref name=":2" />   In folkstyle, Burroughs was a two-time NCAA Division I champion for the Nebraska Cornhuskers and was awarded the Dan Hodge Trophy (equivalent to the Heisman Trophy) in 2012. After winning gold at the 2022 World Wrestling Championships, Burroughs set the American record with his seventh gold medal at the Olympic and World Championship level. Burroughs is widely known for his double-leg takedown and is considered one of the greatest freestyle wrestlers of all time.
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP] BASEketball  BASEketball is a 1998 American sports comedy film co-written and directed by David Zucker and starring "South Park" creators Trey Parker and Matt Stone, along with Yasmine Bleeth, Jenny McCarthy, Robert Vaughn, Ernest Borgnine, and Dian Bachar.  The film follows the history of the sport of the same name (created by Zucker years earlier), from its invention by the lead characters as a game they could win against more athletic types, to its development as a nationwide league sport and a target of corporate sponsorship.  This is the only work involving Parker and Stone that was neither written, directed, nor produced by them, although Zucker himself has stated that Parker and Stone contributed innumerable suggestions for the film, most of which were used.  "BASEketball" is credited with coining the Internet slang term "derp".<ref name="nymag" /><ref name=":0" />
What sport does Ernest Street play? [SEP] Ernest C. Quigley  Ernest Cosmos Quigley (March 22, 1880 – December 10, 1960) was a Canadian-born American sports official who became notable both as a basketball referee and as an umpire in Major League Baseball. He also worked as an American football coach and official.  Born in Canada and raised in Concordia, Kansas, Quigley attended college and law school at the University of Kansas. There he played college basketball under the game's inventor, James Naismith. He became the head football coach at Kansas Wesleyan University and then the athletic director at the University of Kansas. Quigley refereed college basketball for 40 years and umpired more than 3,000 Major League Baseball games. As a college football official, he worked in several bowl games and served on the Rules Committee of the NCAA for several years.  Quigley died in Kansas in 1960.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]  Juan Carlos Pérez López (born 30 March 1990), known as Juan Carlos or Juankar, is a Spanish professional footballer who plays for Greek club Panathinaikos F.C. mainly as a left winger but also as a left back. He was known as El Galgo de Boadilla (Greyhound of Boadilla) for his runs and speed.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]  Stauskas gravitated toward basketball during his childhood. Stauskas has never played ice hockey and has barely played street hockey. He tried soccer at age six, but a broken arm put an end to that. His first experience with basketball came as a member of the Aušra Sports Club, which is a Toronto-based traveling team for children of Lithuanian descent. Stauskas grew up a Raptors fan with Vince Carter as his favorite player. At age eight or nine, he "played" Carter one-on-one at a Raptors open practice for fans held at Air Canada Centre, which boosted his enthusiasm for the sport. Ever since then shooting a basketball has been his favorite form of recreation. He became so devoted to basketball that
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]  Juan Carlos Nevado González (born November 16, 1982 in Frankfurt am Main) is a German field hockey player of Uruguayan and Spanish descent. He was a member of the Men's National Teams that won the gold medal at the 2008 Summer Olympics and at the 2006 World Cup. As of 2008 Nevado played for Hamburg's Uhlenhorster Hockey Club. In July 2016, he was part of the PwC Germany team who stole a 3 - 1 victory from PwC Manchester despite being out classed for the entire game. In another game against PwC Reading, Reading went 1 - 0 up. This is considered by many critics as the most memorable game on tour.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]  Juan Carlos Zubczuk Miszuk (born March 31, 1965 in Oberá, Misiones) is an Argentine-Peruvian retired professional football goalkeeper. He is of Ukrainian descent.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]  Juan Carlos Stevens (born October 22, 1968 in Santiago de Cuba) is an athlete from Cuba, who competes in archery.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP]
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP] List of NBA players born outside the United States  In the National Basketball Association, players born outside of the United States are often known as international players. Players who were born in U.S. overseas territories, such as Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, are considered international players even if they are U.S. citizens. In some borderline cases, the NBA takes into consideration whether a player desires to be identified as "international".<ref name=bullets/> Additionally, there are players who are U.S. citizens on account of being born there but who also have additional citizenships or have represented other countries in international basketball competition. This list contains all players who fulfill at least one of these conditions.  Players whose nationality is listed as "United States" were born outside of the country but have represented them in international basketball tournament. Players who were born outside the United States to U.S. parents and players who became naturalized U.S. citizens are also included in that section.  Hank Biasatti, who was born in Italy and raised in Canada, was the first international player in the league in 1946. The number of international players in the league rose after the formation of the Dream Team when NBA players were allowed into Olympic play starting in 1992. Global interest in basketball subsequently soared. On opening day of the 1991–92 season, NBA rosters included 23 international players from 18 countries. At the start of the , there was a record-high 113 international players from 41 countries and territories. In the start of the , there were 108 international players from a record-high 42 countries and territories, including five players signed up through the newly implemented two-way contract.  The number of players on opening-night rosters broke an all-time league record first set in and tied in , and the number of countries represented surpassed the record set in 2010–11. In addition, the San Antonio Spurs set an all-time record for international players on an opening-night squad, with 10 during the 2013–14 season.  As of the , Canada has produced the most foreign NBA players, with 61. From European countries, France has produced 42 players, and Serbia has produced 30. From Oceania, Australia has produced 32 players while New Zealand has produced 3 players. From African countries, Nigeria and Senegal have produced 30 and 12 players respectively. From Latin American countries, Brazil and Puerto Rico have produced 18 players and Argentina has produced 16. From Asian countries, China has produced 6 players, while Japan and Lebanon have both produced 5. Among transcontinental countries, Turkey, Russia, and Georgia have produced 14, 13 and 11 players respectively.  Including the United States, 90 different countries have produced at least one NBA player in total.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP] List of nicknames in basketball  This is a list of nicknames in the sport of basketball. Most are related to professional basketball, although a few notable nicknames from the U.S. college game are included.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP] Argentina at the 1960 Summer Olympics  Argentina's participation in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, Italy, marked the eighth Olympic performance officially organized by the Argentine Olympic Committee (). The delegation consisted of 91 athletes, all of whom were men, something which had not happened since the 1932 Games in Los Angeles and which has not happened since. Ironically, the flag bearer, a woman named Cristina Hardekopf, was a diver but was not included in the delegation as a participating athlete. However, Jorge Somlay, a rower, participated as Argentina's youngest Olympic competitor at only 13 years old.  The Olympic team won two medals, one bronze and one silver, and five Olympic diplomas. They placed 27th in total medal count over 83 participating countries.  The silver medal was one in yachting and the bronze in boxing, giving Argentina half of its medals and 3 out of five of its Olympic Diplomas (something which was usual until the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City).  Argentina's performance in the games forms part of a period of scarce results, which was affected by scarce support for the Olympic Games by the state as well as other political reasons. Repeating what happened in the 1956 Games in Melbourne, Argentina did not win a single gold medal, and the two medals that they did win were far below their average winnings of 4-7 medals in all of the games from 1924 to 1952. In 2004 Argentina's Olympic success recovered to the levels it had during the 1924-1952 period.
What sport does Juan Carlos Stauskas play? [SEP] Trey Burke  Alfonso Clark "Trey" Burke III (born November 12, 1992) is an American professional basketball player for the Stockton Kings of the NBA G League. He played college basketball for the Michigan Wolverines where in the 2012–13 season, he earned National Player of the Year and led the 2012–13 Wolverines to the championship game of the 2013 NCAA Division I men's basketball tournament. Shortly after the tournament he declared his eligibility for the draft.  As a freshman at Michigan, he earned the 2011–12 Big Ten Co-Freshman of the Year award and was named to the 2011–12 All-Big Ten 2nd team. He led the 2011–12 team in points, assists, steals and blocked shots. As a sophomore, Burke was a consensus first team 2013 NCAA Men's Basketball All-American. He also earned Big Ten Conference Men's Basketball Player of the Year in 2013 and was a unanimous 2012–13 All-Big Ten 1st team selection. He also earned almost all the possible National Player of the Year awards (Wooden, AP, NABC, Naismith, Robertson and "Sports Illustrated"), as well as the Bob Cousy Award. As a sophomore, he led the Big Ten in assists and set the Michigan single-season assists record.  Burke was drafted by the Minnesota Timberwolves with the ninth overall pick in the 2013 NBA draft and immediately traded to the Utah Jazz. As a rookie, he finished third in the NBA Rookie of the Year Award voting. After three seasons with the Jazz, Burke was traded to the Washington Wizards in July 2016. After a short stint with the Westchester Knicks of the NBA G League, he joined the New York Knicks in January 2018. In January 2019, Burke was traded to the Dallas Mavericks. In July of the same year, he signed with the Philadelphia 76ers. Burke rejoined the Mavericks in July 2020.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] * Won on penalties by Bay Olympic (5-3)
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] * Won on penalties by Manurewa (5-4) and Western (4-1) Central United, East Coast Bays, Melville United, Onehunga Sports, and Three Kings United received byes to the Third Round.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP]  The 2011 ASB Chatham Cup is New Zealand's 84th knockout football competition. The 2011 competition had a preliminary round, a qualification round, and four rounds proper before quarter-finals, semi-finals, and a final. Competition was run in three regions (northern, central, southern) until the quarter-finals, from which stage the draw was open. In all, 120 teams entered the competition.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] * Won on penalties by Ngongotaha (6-5), Stop Out (4-1), and Waterside (5-3) ; † New Plymouth OB disqualified for rule infringement
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP]  The 1991 Chatham Cup was the 64th annual nationwide knockout football competition in New Zealand. Up to the last 16 of the competition, the cup was run in three regions (northern, central, and southern), with an open draw from the quarter-finals on. National League teams received a bye until the third round (last 64). In all, a record 174 teams took part in the competition. Tawa reached the final 16 by unusual means. They were defeated by New Plymouth Old Boys in the third round, but New Plymouth Old Boys were disqualified after the draw for the final 32 was made, which would have seen them playing against Rongotai College. Tawa were reinstated as winners of the third round match, but Rongotai refused to play against them, claiming that they should have been awarded the match against NPOB by default. Tawa were thus deemed to have won the fourth round game by a walk-over.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] 2011 Chatham Cup  The 2011 ASB Chatham Cup is New Zealand's 84th knockout football competition.  The 2011 competition had a preliminary round, a qualification round, and four rounds proper before quarter-finals, semi-finals, and a final. Competition was run in three regions (northern, central, southern) until the quarter-finals, from which stage the draw was open. In all, 120 teams entered the competition.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] Chatham Cup  The Chatham Cup is New Zealand's premier knockout tournament in men's association football. It is held annually, with the final contested in September. The current champions of the Chatham Cup are 2022 winners Auckland City, who defeated Eastern Suburbs 1–0 in the final.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] Chris Smalling  Christopher Lloyd Smalling (born 22 November 1989) is an English professional footballer who plays as a centre-back for Serie A club Roma. Smalling represented the England national team from 2011 to 2017.  During his youth, Smalling played for the Millwall academy before joining non-League club Maidstone United. After establishing himself in the Maidstone United first team, he signed for Middlesbrough in May 2008. However, shortly after joining Middlesbrough, Smalling had his contract with the club cancelled after raising concerns over homesickness. Soon after, in June 2008, he signed for Premier League club Fulham. He made his professional debut with them in May 2009 and helped them reach the 2010 UEFA Europa League Final the following season.  In January 2010, Smalling signed a pre-contract agreement with Manchester United and joined them officially in July 2010. He made his competitive debut in the 2010 FA Community Shield victory over Chelsea, which earned him his first career medal. He went on to make more than 300 appearances for the club, winning two Premier League titles, an FA Cup, a League Cup, a UEFA Europa League and a further two Community Shields.  Smalling represented the England Schools under-18 team in early 2008, before making his debut for the national under-20 and under-21 teams in 2009. He made his senior international debut in September 2011 and has appeared at the 2014 FIFA World Cup and UEFA Euro 2016.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] Sport in New Zealand  Sport in New Zealand largely reflects the nation's colonial heritage, with some of the most popular sports being rugby union, rugby league, cricket, association football, basketball, horse racing and netball, which are primarily played in Commonwealth countries. New Zealand has enjoyed success in many sports, notably rugby union (considered the national sport), rugby league, cricket, America's Cup sailing, world championship and Olympics events, and motorsport.  Other popular sports include squash, golf, hockey, tennis, cycling, and tramping, baseball and a variety of water sports, particularly sailing rowing, and surf sports. Winter sports such as skiing and snowboarding are also popular, as are indoor and outdoor bowls.
What sport does 2011 Chatham Cup play? [SEP] Chris Wood (footballer, born 1991)  Christopher Grant Wood (born 7 December 1991) is a New Zealand professional footballer who plays as a striker for club Newcastle United and the New Zealand national team.   Wood was born in Auckland and started his senior career with Cambridge FC, Waikato FC and Hamilton Wanderers before moving to England to play for Premier League side West Bromwich Albion. He spent his time on loan to six different clubs before joining Leicester City in 2013. After a loan spell with Ipswich Town in 2015, he signed for Championship club Leeds United where he became top scorer in the 2016–17 season. He then joined Burnley for a club record fee; Wood became a consistent goalscorer for them in the Premier League, notching up 49 goals in 144 matches over four-and-a-half seasons.  Wood has been capped 70 times for the New Zealand national team and scored 33 goals to become the men's leading goalscorer, overtaking previous holder Vaughan Coveny. He played for the side at the 2010 FIFA World Cup, and was part of the squad that won the 2016 OFC Nations Cup.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP]  The Maltese Women's Knock-Out is the annual cup competition for women's football teams in Malta. Established in 1995–96, the competition is organised by the Malta Football Association.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP]  Malta has a first division for women's volleyball teams. The president of the national federation MVA has been Jesmond Saliba.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP]  The Maltese Women's League or for sponsorship reasons BOV Women's League is the top-level league of women's football in Malta. It is run by the Malta Football Association. After several failed attempts in the 1970s and 1980s to create a lasting women's football competition, successful tournaments of San Gwann and Luxol St. Andrews gained so much interest, that the Malta Football Association decided to organize the first ever league in 1995–96. The most titles were won by Hibernians. Although the winning team of the league qualifies for a spot in the UEFA Women's Champions League, the spot is not always taken. Malta currently sits at the last spot in the UEFA coefficients women's ranking and the last club to take part was Birkirkara in 2007–08; Birkirkana lost all three games with 1–37 goals. In 09–10 they competed again and ended up with three losses and 1-26 goals.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP]  The 2020–21 season was played by the following teams.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP]  Maltese National Hockey League is the official field hockey league in Malta, with 5 teams participating.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP] Football in Malta  Football in Malta is run by the Malta Football Association and was introduced to Malta during British rule in the mid-19th century. The sport at the time was new to England, and was used as a means of entertainment for the soldiers stationed in Malta at the various barracks around Malta at the time. In 1863 a football association was formed which governed rules and regulations for this quickly changing sport, which was still in amateur competition stage and played in an un-scheduled format until 1909 when a league format was introduced.  The association runs the national football team, as well as administering the semi-professional Maltese Football League and the Maltese Cup for club sides.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP] Maltese Women's League  The Maltese Women's League or for sponsorship reasons BOV Women's League is the top-level league of women's football in Malta. It is run by the Malta Football Association.  After several failed attempts in the 1970s and 1980s to create a lasting women's football competition, successful tournaments of San Gwann and Luxol St. Andrews gained so much interest, that the Malta Football Association decided to organize the first ever league in 1995–96.  The most titles were won by Hibernians.  Although the winning team of the league qualifies for a spot in the UEFA Women's Champions League, the spot is not always taken. Malta currently sits at the last spot in the UEFA coefficients women's ranking and the last club to take part was Birkirkara in 2007–08; Birkirkana lost all three games with 1–37 goals. In 09–10 they competed again and ended up with three losses and 1-26 goals.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP] Sport in Malta  Sports in Malta include association football, basketball, athletics, rugby, tennis, cycling, and others.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP] Rugby union in Malta  Rugby union in Malta is a small but growing sport. The national senior men's team are currently ranked 46th by the World Rugby.
What sport does Maltese Women's Cup play? [SEP] Malta women's national football team  The Malta women's national football team represents the Malta Football Association in international women's football matches sanctioned by UEFA.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  The 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament was held at Durham Bulls Athletic Park in Durham, NC from May 20 through May 24. It was the first time the tournament has been played at the ballpark since 1999 and fourth time overall since the ballpark opened in 1995. The #6 seeded Virginia Cavaliers won the tournament with a perfect 4–0 record, earning the Atlantic Coast Conference's automatic bid to the 2009 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. It was Virginia's first conference championship in baseball since 1996, and their second tournament championship ever. The tournament was originally scheduled to be contested at Fenway Park in Boston, home of Major League Baseball's Boston Red Sox. But on August 14, 2008, it was announced by Fenway Sports Group, along with the Atlantic Coast Conference, that the location of the tournament would have to be changed due to a scheduling error. The ACC chose the Bulls' ballpark as Fenway's replacement. 2009 was the third year in which the conference used a round robin tournament format, with the team with the best record in each group at the end of the three-game round robin advancing to a one-game championship.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  The 2011 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament was held at the Durham Bulls Athletic Park in Durham, NC from May 25 through May 29. All of the games were shown live on Fox Sports South with select games being shown on Fox Sports Florida, Comcast Mid-Atlantic, Sun Sports, and New England Sports Network. Top seeded Virginia won the tournament and earned the Atlantic Coast Conference's automatic bid to the 2011 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. It was Virginia's third ACC tournament win and second in three years. 2011 was the fifth year in which the conference used a round-robin tournament format, with the team with the best record in each group at the end of the three-game round robin advancing to a one-game championship.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  The 2010 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament was held at NewBridge Bank Park in Greensboro, NC from May 26 through May 30. The #5 seeded Florida State Seminoles won the tournament and earned the Atlantic Coast Conference's automatic bid to the 2010 NCAA Division I Baseball Tournament. It was Florida State's fifth ACC tournament win and first since 2004. A record 6,247 were in attendance for the championship game. 2010 was the fourth year in which the conference used a round-robin tournament format, with the team with the best record in each group at the end of the three-game round robin advancing to a one-game championship.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  In 2004, the conference expanded to 11 teams with the addition of Miami and Virginia Tech. Beginning with the 2005 Baseball Tournament, the tournament switched from a true eight-team double-elimination to two four-team double-elimination brackets with winner of each side playing in a winner-take-all championship game. The bottom four teams in conference play faced off in a single-elimination bracket, with the winner earning the #8 spot in the tournament.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP]  (*)Denotes Unanimous Selection
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference baseball tournament  The 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference baseball tournament was held at Durham Bulls Athletic Park in Durham, North Carolina, from May 20 through 24. It was the first time the tournament has been played at the ballpark since 1999 and fourth time overall since the ballpark opened in 1995. The #6 seeded Virginia Cavaliers won the tournament with a perfect 4–0 record, earning the Atlantic Coast Conference's automatic bid to the 2009 NCAA Division I baseball tournament. It was Virginia's first conference championship in baseball since 1996, and their second tournament championship ever.  The tournament was originally scheduled to be contested at Fenway Park in Boston, home of Major League Baseball's Boston Red Sox. But on August 14, 2008, it was announced by Fenway Sports Group, along with the Atlantic Coast Conference, that the location of the tournament would have to be changed due to a scheduling error. The ACC chose the Bulls' ballpark as Fenway's replacement.  2009 was the third year in which the conference used a round robin tournament format, with the team with the best record in each group at the end of the three-game round robin advancing to a one-game championship.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Atlantic Coast Conference baseball tournament  The Atlantic Coast Conference baseball tournament, sometimes referred to simply as the ACC tournament, is the conference championship tournament in baseball for the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC). In 2017, the event adopted a modified twelve-team pool play format. The winner receives the conference's automatic bid to the NCAA Division I baseball tournament.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Atlantic Coast Conference  The Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) is a collegiate athletic conference located in the eastern United States. Headquartered in Greensboro, North Carolina, the ACC's fifteen member universities compete in the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)'s Division I. ACC football teams compete in the NCAA Division I Football Bowl Subdivision. The ACC sponsors competition in twenty-five sports with many of its member institutions held in high regard nationally. Current members of the conference are Boston College, Clemson University, Duke University, Georgia Institute of Technology, Florida State University, North Carolina State University, Syracuse University, the University of Louisville, the University of Miami, the University of North Carolina, the University of Notre Dame, the University of Pittsburgh, the University of Virginia, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University, and Wake Forest University.  ACC teams and athletes have claimed dozens of national championships in multiple sports throughout the conference's history. Generally, the ACC's top athletes and teams in any particular sport in a given year are considered to be among the top collegiate competitors in the nation. Additionally, the conference enjoys extensive media coverage. With the advent of the College Football Playoff in 2014, the ACC is one of the "Power Five" conferences with a contractual tie-in to a New Year's Six bowl game in the sport of football.  The ACC was founded on May 8, 1953, by seven universities located in the South Atlantic States, with the University of Virginia joining in early December 1953 to bring the membership to eight. The loss of South Carolina in 1971 dropped membership to seven, while the addition of Georgia Tech in 1979 for non-football sports and 1983 for football brought it back to eight, and Florida State's arrival in 1991 for non-football sports and 1992 for football increased the membership to nine. Since 2000, with the widespread reorganization of the NCAA, seven additional schools have joined, and one original member (Maryland) has left to bring it to the current membership of 15 schools. The additions in recent years extended the conference's footprint into the Northeast and Midwest.  ACC member universities represent a range of private and public universities of various enrollment sizes, all of which participate in the Atlantic Coast Conference Academic Consortium whose purpose is to "enrich the educational missions, especially the undergraduate student experiences, of member universities".
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Florida State Seminoles  The Florida State Seminoles are the athletic teams representing Florida State University located in Tallahassee, Florida. They compete as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level (Football Bowl Subdivision sub-level for football), primarily competing in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) for all sports since the 1991–92 season; within the Atlantic Division in any sports split into a divisional format since the 2005–06 season.  The Seminoles' athletic department fields 20 teams. They have collectively won 20 team national championships, and over 100 team conference championships, as well as numerous individual national and conference titles.
What sport does 2009 Atlantic Coast Conference Baseball Tournament play? [SEP] Florida State Seminoles baseball  The Florida State Seminoles baseball team represents Florida State University (variously Florida State or FSU) in the sport of college baseball. Florida State competes in NCAA Division I, and the Atlantic Division of the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC).  The Florida State Seminoles are the second most successful NCAA Division I college baseball program in percentage of games won, with an all-time win percentage of , second behind Texas. The Seminoles rank sixth in all-time number of total wins and second in post-season wins. The Seminoles have appeared in the NCAA Tournament 59 times, advancing to the College World Series 23 times — and have appeared in the CWS Championship Game or Championship Series on three occasions (1970, 1986, and 1999). Florida State has won 11 regular-season conference championships and 20 conference tournament championships, including nine regular-season ACC championships and eight ACC tournament championships.  Florida State has had 100 All-Americans and 62 players that went on to play Major League Baseball. Former Seminoles who have gone on to have success include Randy Choate, J. D. Drew, Stephen Drew, Ron Fraser, Johnny Grubb, Terry Kennedy, Doug Mientkiewicz, Shane Robinson, Larry Rothschild, Tony La Russa, Paul Sorrento, Kevin Cash, Woody Woodward, and Jameis Winston. The Buster Posey National Collegiate Catcher of the Year Award, presented annually to the top catcher in college baseball, is named for Florida State hall of famer Buster Posey. Former head coach Mike Martin is the winningest coach in the history of college baseball.  The Seminoles play their home games on campus at Mike Martin Field at Dick Howser Stadium on the university's Tallahassee, Florida, campus and are coached by Link Jarrett.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP]  Timon Dobias (born 28 July 1989) is a retired Slovak football player.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP]  Dobias is a product of 1. FC Košice, later renamed to MFK, youth squads. He made his Corgoň Liga debut two days before his 19th birthday in a 1–0 away win against Dukla Banská Bystrica. He scored his first goal in a 1–0 home win against Dunajská Streda on 5 March 2011. On 31 July 2019 it was announced, that Dobias had decided to retire due to chronic health problems.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP]  Thobias Fredriksson (born 4 April 1975 in Dals Rostock, Dalsland) is a Swedish former cross-country skier who competed since 2000. He won two medals at the 2006 Winter Olympics in Turin with a gold in the team sprint and a bronze in the individual sprint events. Fredriksson also won two medals in the individual sprint events at the FIS Nordic World Ski Championships with a gold in 2003 and a bronze in 2005. After the 2010 season, Fredriksson retired. Thobias has a brother, Mathias Fredriksson, at the same professional level.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP]  Steponas "Stepas" Garbačiauskas (17 April 1900 – 3 August 1983) was a Lithuanian record-holding athlete, football player, sports journalist, and diplomat. He is regarded as one of the Lithuanian sports pioneers. Garbačiauskas was a forward and captain of the first Lithuanian footballing international in 1923 against Estonia, the following year he played in the 1924 Summer Olympics, against Switzerland which they lost 0-9 and didn't advance any further, over the next couple of years he played four more ties for his country. Garbačiauskas was buried at the Petrašiūnai Cemetery.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP]  Tim Jenniskens (born 23 September 1986 in Tilburg) is a Dutch field hockey player. At the 2012 Summer Olympics he competed with the Netherlands national field hockey team in the men's tournament, winning a silver medal.
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP] Karol Dobiaš Karol Dobiaš (born 18 December 1947) is a former Slovak football player and coach. During his career, he was a versatile player, mostly playing as defender or midfielder. He was born in Handlová. His career started in Baník Handlová. In 1965 he moved to Spartak Trnava where he achieved the biggest success as a player. With Spartak he became a five time Czechoslovakian champion and won three national cups. In 1970 and 1971, he was named Czechoslovak Footballer of the Year. In 1977, he moved to Bohemians Prague. During his career he played 345 matches in the Czechoslovak
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP] David Doblas David Jesús Doblas Portilla (born August 6, 1981 in Santander, Cantabria) is a Spanish professional basketball player who plays for Levanga Hokkaido of the Japanese B.League. At 2.09 m (6'10¼") and 124 kg (274 lbs.), he plays at the center position, but he can also play as a power forward, if needed. In 2009, Doblas played in the NBA Summer League with the Toronto Raptors's Summer League team. On 30 September 2016, Doblas penned a contract with Doxa Lefkadas of the Greek Basket League. However, despite the announcement, on 1 October 2016, he played in the first Spanish
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP] and 2.2 blocks a game. He later attended offseason training with the Los Angeles Lakers of the NBA. However, he could not play for the next two years due to illness. After recovering, Kickingstallionsims signed with the Romanian team, BC Timba Timișoara, who competed in the Liga Națională. In the shot-blocking category, he finished fourth and was named an All-Star. He averaged 7.8 points, 4.2 rebounds, and 1.4 blocks per game. Following the end of the season, he was drafted by the Austin Toros in the third round of the 2013 NBA Development League Draft. The Toros waived him on
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP] 2002), scoring 2 goals in the 2002 LEN Champions League final win (9–7) against Honvéd in Budapest. He was the captain of Olympiacos in the 2002 LEN Super Cup win against Vasas (6–5) in Budapest. Olympiacos Thomas Khatzis Thomas "Themis" Khatzis (born 23 July 1972) is a Greek former water polo player who competed in the 1996 Summer Olympics (6th place) and the 2000 Summer Olympics (10th place) with the Greek national team. Khatzis started his career at Poseidon Ilision and in 1992 he moved to Olympiacos where he played for twelve consecutive seasons (1992–2004), winning 20 major titles (1
What sport does Timon Dobias play? [SEP] spent the summer playing with the Lithuanian junior national team. He led the team to the gold medal at the 2005 FIBA Under-21 World Championship in Argentina, scoring nine points with five rebounds in a close 65–63 victory over Greece in the championship game. He also participated in the Lithuanian Junior National Team's bronze medal run at the Global Games in Dallas, Texas, in which their only loss was to Team USA. In the bronze medal game, Kavaliauskas scored 22 points with seven rebounds. Kavaliauskas also represented the senior Lithuania men's national basketball team at the 2012 Summer Olympics, averaging
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP]  Mutanda has coached for several Seattle-area clubs, organizations and schools. He is currently a coach with Emerald City Football Club, and has coached for Rainier Beach High School. Mutanda is also founder of The Rising Point, a non-profit organization designed to bring quality soccer programs to underserved communities.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP]  Mutanda Kwesele (born March 14, 1986 in Mufulira) is a Zambian footballer.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP]  Kwesele moved from his native Zambia to the United States with his family as a child, settling in Seattle, Washington. He attended Seattle Preparatory School, where he was a two-time All-Metro and All-District selection, and began his college soccer at Santa Clara University. He transferred to Seattle University prior to his sophomore season in 2006, and played three seasons with the Redhawks, helping the team reach the NCAA tournament in back-to-back seasons in 2006 and 2007. He played in 42 games during his college career, recording two goals and five assists. During his college years Kwesele also played with the Tacoma Tide in the USL Premier Development League in 2007, playing in 10 games and scoring 1 goal.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP]  Mumbi's brother is Mutanda Kwesele, who also played professional soccer.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP]  Undrafted out of college, Kwesele was unable to secure a professional contract, and signed instead to play with the Portland Timbers U23s in the USL Premier Development League in 2009. He signed his first professional contract in 2011 when he signed with FC Edmonton of the North American Soccer League. He made his debut for Edmonton on May 4, 2011, in a 1-0 loss to Toronto FC in the 2011 Nutrilite Canadian Championship. The club released Kwesele on October 12, 2011 after the conclusion of the 2011 season.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP] Emerald City Football Club  Emerald City Football Club (ECFC) is a Seattle-based select soccer club. ECFC is a premier year-round soccer club with professional coaching. It is one of Seattle's oldest select soccer clubs, having formed in 1979. ECFC is a non-profit, 501c3 organization largely run by volunteers. ECFC teams compete with other premier clubs in Washington State in the Puget Sound Premier League (PSPL). ECFC players come from all different neighborhoods in the Seattle and Puget Sound region, rather than from one specific geographical area. ECFC is a member of US Club Soccer.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP] Columbus Crew  The Columbus Crew, formerly known as Columbus Crew SC, is an American professional soccer club based in Columbus, Ohio. The Crew competes in Major League Soccer (MLS) as a member of the league's Eastern Conference and began play in 1996 as one of the 10 charter clubs of the league. The team is currently operated by an ownership group led by the Haslam family (also owners of the Cleveland Browns and Pilot Corporation) and former team physician Pete Edwards. The Haslam/Edwards group is the third ownership group in club history.  The franchise was founded in 1994. Its stadium is Lower.com Field, opened in 2021. From 1999 to 2021, the Crew played home games at Historic Crew Stadium (formerly Mapfre Stadium and Columbus Crew Stadium), the first soccer-specific stadium built for an MLS team, with a seating capacity of 19,968 as of the 2015 season. From 1996 to 1998, the Crew played its home games at Ohio Stadium on the campus of Ohio State University.  The Crew have won six major trophies: the MLS Cup in 2008 and 2020; the Supporters' Shield in 2004, 2008, and 2009; and the 2002 U.S. Open Cup. The Crew have qualified for the CONCACAF Champions League (or its predecessor, the CONCACAF Champions' Cup) four times, reaching the quarter-finals on the first three occasions. In 2021, the club won their first continental trophy by winning the Campeones Cup.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP] 2011 FC Edmonton season  The 2011 NASL season was the first official season in FC Edmonton's existence. The club had played an exhibition season consisting of friendlies against various domestic and international opponents in 2010.
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP] Kwesé Sports Kwesé Sports () is a sport website serving Sub-Saharan Africa which is operated by Econet Media, a subsidiary of Econet Wireless. Kwesé Sports was launched on 4 December 2015 with the announcement made by Econet Wireless founder Strive Masiyiwa, on the social networking site Facebook. Strive Masiyiwa, founder and Group Chairman of Econet Wireless made an announcement on 4 December 2015 through his Facebook page of a new pay TV service named Kwesé TV and Kwesé Sports, a website which was live, showing sport news and offering free live streaming of the Copa del Rey football matches in
What sport does Mutanda Kwesele play? [SEP] first-ever win at the Nations Cup. Emmanuel Ake Emmanuel Ake Richard Muttendango (born 11 June 1980 in Mombasa) is a Kenyan footballer of Seychellois ancestry. Ake plays as a forward for the Danish Danmarksserien club FC Djursland. He has spent the past ten seasons playing for different clubs in Denmark. Emannuel Ake entered Europe with a temporarily visa because of the fact he had to play a testmatch in the Netherlands. When this turned out wrong for him, he left the Netherlands all of a sudden to go to his father in Denmark without a regular Visa. When Ake first
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP]  Gracien grew up in France and was part of storied French club Paris Saint-Germain's youth academy, where he played from the age of 14.
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP]  Marc Hérold Gracien (born May 5, 1983 in Saint-Marc) is a Haitian footballer.
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP]  Gracien made his debut for the Haiti national football team in 2004. He played the qualifying games for the 2006 FIFA World Cup and the 2009 CONCACAF Gold Cup.
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP]  Gracien began his professional career in France at the age of 18, playing with lower-league sides such as La Rochelle, Les Lilas, Brive and Plessis-Robinson. Gracien signed with the Real Maryland Monarchs in the USL Second Division in 2009, playing eight games and scoring 1 goal and one assist in his debut season with the team. SS La Gauloise (Reunion Island Indian Ocean) played 27 games and scored 11 goals. In January 2010, Gracien signed a 2-year contract with the Indian Ocean side. Gracien is extremely fast, very skillful and his ability to play with both feet is impressive. He has a strong strike and he is a great goal scorer.
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP]  At the age of 17 in 2001, Marc-Herold Gracien was considered as the fastest player in France by beating Nicolas Anelka's record after a physical test at Clarefontaine (The National Institute of Soccer)
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP] Marc Delissen Marcus Johannes Elisabeth Leopold "Marc" Delissen (born 14 January 1965 in Amsterdam, North Holland) played field hockey for The Netherlands. Delissen played 261 international matches for The Netherlands, scored 98 goals and participated in three Olympics. He made his debut when he was nineteen years old, on 21 October 1984, in a friendly match against Ireland in London. With his club HGC from Wassenaar Delissen became Dutch champion twice, in 1990 and 1996. He retired after the Atlanta Olympics, but returned for the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, where he assisted headcoach Maurits Hendriks and Holland once again
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP] 2010 Commonwealth Games. He was then part of Team Canada at the 2011 Pan Am Games and the 2014 Commonwealth Games. Among Thériault’s career highlights are winning the singles titles at the North American Championships and North American Cup in 2012. Best results Pierre-Luc Thériault Pierre-Luc Thériault (born October 25, 1993 in St-Fabien, Quebec) is a Canadian table tennis player. Pierre-Luc Thériault wanted to represent Canada since watching the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games and seeing other athletes proudly perform for their countries. Thériault began playing for the Canadian Cadet National Team as a 13-year-old, progressing to the Canadian Junior National
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP] Ben Maruquin Benjamin Maruquin (born February 26, 1970 in Ventura, California) is a former field hockey sweeper from the United States, who finished twelfth with the national team at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia. He was taught field hockey by his father Marvin Maruquin and his uncle Beau Stockdill (both of whom competed at the Pan American Games in the 1970s). He was named as the USA Field Hockey male Athlete of the Year in 1991 and 1993. He competed in over 200 international matches for the USA Men's National Team from 1989-1997. He moved into coaching after
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP] became an Olympic champion. Delissen later on coached his former club HGC for three years (2002–2005) in the Dutch Premier League, called "Hoofdklasse". He is a practising lawyer in The Hague. <br> Marc Delissen Marcus Johannes Elisabeth Leopold "Marc" Delissen (born 14 January 1965 in Amsterdam, North Holland) played field hockey for The Netherlands. Delissen played 261 international matches for The Netherlands, scored 98 goals and participated in three Olympics. He made his debut when he was nineteen years old, on 21 October 1984, in a friendly match against Ireland in London. With his club HGC from Wassenaar Delissen became
What sport does Marc Herold Gracien play? [SEP] Marc Albert Marc Albert (born November 15, 1961 in Caraquet) is a former Canadian Olympic volleyball player. Albert led his Polyvalente Louis-Mailloux to New Brunswick provincial high school volleyball championships in 1978 and '79. While attending the Université de Moncton he was named to the Canadian junior national team and in 1981 relocated to Calgary to join the senior national team. He left the team however after 18 months to become a Calgary police officer. He returned to the program in 1985 but left again after only a year to focus on work and family. In 1989 however, an arrangement
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]  Barrie George Aitchison (born 15 November 1937) is an English former footballer who played as a winger in the Football League for Colchester United, where he came through the youth ranks before joining Tottenham Hotspur, but failed to make a first-team appearance. His older brother Peter also played professionally for Colchester United.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]  As a result of his footballing and injury suffered while with Colchester United, Aitchison underwent a cartilage operation in 1970. Following his retirement from the professional game, he worked for Alston's in Colchester, a furniture upholsterers.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]  Peter Munro Aitchison (born 19 September 1931) is an English former footballer who played as a winger in the Football League for Colchester United. His younger brother Barrie also played professionally for Colchester.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]  Jack Aitchison (born 5 March 2000) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays as a forward for Forest Green Rovers on loan from Barnsley.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]  Born in Colchester, Aitchison followed in his brother Peter's footsteps by joining Colchester United from Border League football in 1953, but was considered too slight and was released in 1954, joining Tottenham Hotspur. He spent ten years with the club, mostly in the reserves and other minor sides, during which time they won the Football Combination twice. A fee of £750 brought Aitchison back to Layer Road in 1964 having failed to make a first-team breakthrough whilst at Tottenham. Aitchison made his Colchester debut on 22 August 1964 in a 1–0 defeat at home to Carlisle United. He scored his first professional goal on 2
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP]
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP] 1964–65 Colchester United F.C. season  The 1964–65 season was Colchester United's 23rd season in their history and their third successive season in the Third Division, the third tier of English football. Alongside competing in the Third Division, the club also participated in the FA Cup and the League Cup.  Neil Franklin's first full season in charge saw an influx of new players, with 14 new arrivals at Layer Road replacing a host of experienced players, including former apprentice Peter Wright and experienced wing half Roy McCrohan. As such, Colchester's form suffered and the club battled against relegation for much of the season. They were eventually relegated after finishing in 23rd-position.  Colchester's fortunes in the cup competitions were no better than the league. They experienced early exits in each cup, twice being eliminated by Torquay United.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP] 1965–66 Colchester United F.C. season  The 1965–66 season was Colchester United's 24th season in their history and their first back in the fourth tier of English football, the Fourth Division, following relegation the previous season. Alongside competing in the Fourth Division, the club also participated in the FA Cup and the League Cup.  Colchester were immediately promoted back to the Third Division after ending the season in fourth position. Queens Park Rangers handed Colchester another early FA Cup exit following a replay, while Middlesbrough knocked the U's out of the League Cup in the second round.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP] 1966–67 Colchester United F.C. season  The 1966–67 season was Colchester United's 25th season in their history and their first back in the third tier of English football, the Third Division, following promotion from the Fourth Division the previous season. Alongside competing in the Third Division, the club also participated in the FA Cup and the League Cup.  Colchester finished comfortably mid-table by finishing 13th. Queens Park Rangers defeated the U's 5–0 in the League Cup, while Peterborough United knocked them out in the second round of the FA Cup.
What sport does Barrie Aitchison play? [SEP] Canadian Lacrosse Hall of Fame  The Canadian Lacrosse Hall of Fame is a Canadian lacrosse hall of fame, located in New Westminster, British Columbia, Canada. The Hall was chartered in 1965 by the Canadian Lacrosse Association, and inducted its first class of hall of famers in the following year.
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP]  Kyriaki "Kiki" Liosi (Κυριακή "Κική" Λιόση; born October 30, 1979) is a female Greek water polo player and Olympic silver medalist with the Greek national team. She received a silver medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in 2004 Athens. She was the top sprinter at the 2004 Olympics, with 21 sprints won. She received a gold medal with the Greek team at the 2005 FINA Women's Water Polo World League in Kirishi. Liosi participated at the 2008 Women's Water Polo Olympic Qualifier in Imperia, where Greece finished 4th and qualified for the 2008 Olympics, in Beijing. At club level, she played for Olympiacos (1998–2003), Glyfada (2003–2005) and Vouliagmeni (2005–2013).
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP]  Panagiotis Gionis (born 7 January 1980) is a Greek table tennis player and a dentist. He is a member of the Greek National Team and has competed in 4 Olympics and many World and European Championships. He has been playing professionally in Germany and France since 2001. Currently, he is playing for German club Borussia Düsseldorf and is being sponsored by TAMASU BUTTERFLY. In May 2011, he qualified directly for the London 2012 Summer Olympics based on his ITTF world ranking. At the 2012 Summer Olympics, he lost in the third round to Japan's Seiya Kishikawa. He placed 3rd in the men's single 2013 LIEBHERR European Championships and second in the team event. He is currently ranked 21st in the world and 7th in Europe. In Aug 2014 he was invited to participate in the mixed European team in the Asia-Europe All Star Challenge on
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP]  Gela Aprasidze (born 14 January 1998) is a Georgian rugby union player who plays as a scrum-half for Montpellier in the Top 14 and the Georgia national team. He was a member of the Georgia U20 squad for the 2017 World Rugby Under 20 Championship.
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP]  in Flachau, Austria. The former U.S. Ski Team athlete is now the newest member on Greece’s national team. The Hellenic Olympic team also praised the alpine skier for his great effort and contribution to the sport in Greece.U.S. Ambassador to Greece Geoffrey R. Pyatt also congratulated Ginnis, Tweeting: “Athens-born Greek-American AJ Ginnis, skiing for Flag of Greece today became the first ever Greek to win a point scoring position in @fisalpine professional competition!” The 26-year-old Greek-American skier did not have it easy in his career: he has battled five knee surgeries and a torn groin muscle before becoming successful in the
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP]  Zisis started his basketball playing career in the year 1996, playing with the junior teams of XAN Thessaloniki (English: YMCA Thessaloniki). He was with the club until 2000. The club would later go on to retire his jersey, in 2018.
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP] Oyanaisis Gelis  Oyanaisis Gelis González (born October 21, 1983) is a Cuban women's basketball player. Playing as a guard she won the gold medal with the Cuba women's national basketball team at the 2003 Pan American Games in Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. Her first name is sometimes also spelled as Oyanaisy.  She was a member of the team which competed for Cuba at the 2015 Pan American Games, winning a bronze medal.  <references />
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP] 2014 FIBA World Championship for Women  The 2014 FIBA World Championship for Women, the 17th edition of FIBA's premier international tournament for women's national basketball teams, was held in Ankara and Istanbul, Turkey from 27 September to 5 October 2014.  This tournament implemented the new expanded free throw lane, the restricted arc, and extended 3-point line (6.6–6.75 m).  The United States defended their title and won their ninth overall gold medal by beating Spain 77–64 in the final. Australia defeated Turkey 74–44 to capture the bronze medal.  This was the last FIBA championship to use the name of "FIBA World Championship for Women". Shortly after the event, FIBA changed the name of the competition to the FIBA Women's Basketball World Cup, presumably to align its name with that of the corresponding men's competition.
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP] and qualified for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing. Evangelia Moraitidou Evangelia Moraitidou (born March 26, 1975) is a female Greek water polo player and Olympic silver medalist with the Greek national team. She received a silver medal at the 2004 Summer Olympics in 2004 Athens. She received a gold medal with the Greek team at the 2005 FINA Women's Water Polo World League in Kirishi, and a bronze medal at the 2007 FINA Women's Water Polo World League in Montreal, where she scored 18 goals and ranked 5th on the scoring list. She participated at the 2008 Women's Water Polo
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP] against Estonia. Giorgos Masouras Giorgos Masouras (; born 1 Jan 1994) is a Greek professional footballer who plays for Panionios. On 1 January 2019 he will belong to Olympiacos. He started his professional career in Ilisiakos and now he is playing for the Athenian club Panionios. On 27 April 2016, at the end of the 2015–16 season they reached to an agreement on a new contract with the club. The 22 year old midfielder had an excellent year and Panionios is eager to expedite the procedures for the renewal of his contract which expires on summer 2017. Finally, the two
What sport does Oyanaisis Gelis play? [SEP] 1996 Summer Olympic Games. He has represented Greece at senior level in 44 games, averaging 3.6 points per game. Kakiousis began his club coaching career, as the head coach of Makedonikos in 2001. He won the 2002 Greek A2 Basket League championship, with a 24–2 record. In 2002, he joined Iraklis, and lead the club a third-place finish in the Greek Basket League 2003–04 season. In 2005, he became the head coach of AEK Athens, and in 2006, he became the assistant coach of Maroussi. In 2009, he once again took the head coaching job with Iraklis. He was also
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP]  afternoon, a story, spelled with a lowercase 'a', is a work of electronic literature written in 1987 by American author Michael Joyce. It was published by Eastgate Systems in 1990 and is known as one of the first works of hypertext fiction. afternoon was first offered to the public as a demonstration of the hypertext authoring system Storyspace, announced in 1987 at the first Association for Computing Machinery Hypertext conference in a paper by Michael Joyce and Jay David Bolter. In 1990, it was published on diskette and distributed in the same form by Eastgate Systems. It was followed by a series of other Storyspace hypertext fictions, including Stuart Moulthrop's Victory Garden, Shelley Jackson's Patchwork Girl and Deena Larsen's Marble Springs. Eastgate continues to publish the work in the 2010s and distributes it on a USB flash drive.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP]  This is a highly discussed work of electronic literature since it was one of the first electronic interactive novels, therefore many articles have been written about it. Espen J. Aarseth devotes a chapter of his book Cybertext to afternoon, calling it a classic example of modernist literature. It is more often thought of as a work of Postmodern literature, as evidenced by its inclusion in the Norton Anthology of Postmodern American Fiction. Chapters of Jay David Bolter's Writing Space and J. Yellowlees Douglas's The End of Books or Books Without End also discuss afternoon, as does Matthew G. Kirschenbaum's Mechanisms: New Media and the Forensic Imagination. Gunnar Liestøl's article "Wittgenstein, Genette, and the Reader's Narrative in Hypertext" in George Landow's Hyper/Text/Theory (1994) uses the theory of narratology to understand afternoon and Anna Gunders's dissertation work.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP]  The Blue Afternoon (1993) is a novel by William Boyd. It won the Sunday Express Book of the Year in the year of its publication and the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Fiction.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] The Blue Afternoon, William Boyd, Penguin Books, 1993 ; William Boyd discusses the idea of the maxim 'write what you know' in relation to his own writing
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] Afternoon, a story (1987, 1990) ; Victory Garden (1992) ; Patchwork Girl (1995) ; The Imaginary 20th Century (2016) ; Poesie Elettroniche (2016) ; Notes Toward Absolute Zero (1995) ; Déprise (2010) ; Figurski at Findhorn on Acid (2001, 2021)
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] Death in the Afternoon (cocktail)  Death in the Afternoon, also called the Hemingway or the Hemingway Champagne, is a cocktail made up of absinthe and Champagne, invented by Ernest Hemingway. The cocktail shares a name with Hemingway's 1932 book "Death in the Afternoon", and the recipe was published in "So Red the Nose, or Breath in the Afternoon", a 1935 cocktail book with contributions from famous authors. Hemingway's original instructions were: "Pour one jigger absinthe into a Champagne glass. Add iced Champagne until it attains the proper opalescent milkiness. Drink three to five of these slowly."<ref name="NYT"/> It is claimed that the cocktail was invented by Hemingway after he spent time in the Left Bank, Paris, and enjoyed the absinthe there. Death in the Afternoon is known for both its decadence and its high strength.  There are a number of alternative ways to produce Death in the Afternoon. The absinthe can be added to the glass after the Champagne, as some brands of absinthe will float on the Champagne for a short time. Some recipes direct the person making the cocktail to use ingredients in addition to the Champagne and absinthe; Valerie Mellema recommends that a sugar cube and several dashes of bitters be added to the glass prior to the main ingredients.  The cocktail is milky in appearance on account of the spontaneous emulsification of the absinthe (or substitute), and bubbly, which it takes from the Champagne. After the first sip, however, it becomes significantly less bubbly. Harold McGee, dining and wine writer for "The New York Times", said that it "seemed a waste of effervescence" (though substituting Pernod for the absinthe).<ref name="NYT"/>
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] Death in the Afternoon  Death in the Afternoon is a non-fiction book written by Ernest Hemingway about the ceremony and traditions of Spanish bullfighting, published in 1932. The book provides a look at the history and the Spanish traditions of bullfighting. It also contains a deeper contemplation on the nature of fear and courage. While essentially a guide book, there are three main sections: Hemingway's work, pictures, and a glossary of terms.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] Dog Day Afternoon  Dog Day Afternoon is a 1975 American biographical crime drama film directed by Sidney Lumet and produced by Martin Bregman and Martin Elfand. The film stars Al Pacino, John Cazale, James Broderick, and Charles Durning. The screenplay is written by Frank Pierson and is based on the "Life" magazine article "The Boys in the Bank" by P. F. Kluge and Thomas Moore. The feature chronicled the 1972 robbery and hostage situation led by John Wojtowicz and Salvatore Naturile at a Chase Manhattan branch in Brooklyn.  Elfand brought Bregman's attention to the article, who proceeded to negotiate a deal with Warner Bros and clear the rights to use the story. Pierson conducted his research and wrote a script that centered the story of the robbery around Wojtowicz. The cast was selected by Lumet and Pacino, with the latter selecting past co-stars from his Off-Broadway plays. Filming took place between September and November 1974, and the production was finished three weeks ahead of schedule.  Upon theatrical release on September 21, 1975, "Dog Day Afternoon" was a critical and box office success. The film was nominated for six Academy Awards and seven Golden Globe Awards and won the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay. In 2009, "Dog Day Afternoon" was deemed "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant" by the Library of Congress, and was selected for preservation in the National Film Registry.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP] The Saturday Evening Post  The Saturday Evening Post is an American magazine, currently published six times a year. It was issued weekly under this title from 1897 until 1963, then every two weeks until 1969. From the 1920s to the 1960s, it was one of the most widely circulated and influential magazines within the American middle class, with fiction, non-fiction, cartoons and features that reached two million homes every week. The magazine declined in readership through the 1960s, and in 1969 "The Saturday Evening Post" folded for two years before being revived as a quarterly publication with an emphasis on medical articles in 1971. As of the late 2000s, "The Saturday Evening Post" is published six times a year by the Saturday Evening Post Society, which purchased the magazine in 1982. The magazine was redesigned in 2013.
Who is the author of Afternoon? [SEP]
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP]  Rosenberg is co-editor with Laura Feder of the addiction textbook, Behavioral Addictions (2014), and he is the author of two trade books, Infidelity (2018) and Bedlam (2019), which was written with Jessica DuLong.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP]  third book, Time for Bed, was published by Louisiana State University Press in 2019. In addition, Rawlings has published short fiction, essays, and criticism in a variety of journals, including AGNI, The Atlantic, Cincinnati Review, Crab Orchard Review, Fourth Genre, Massachusetts Review, The Normal School, Passages North, The Southern Review, Sonora Review, and Tin House. Born in Washington D.C. in 1967, Rawlings grew up in Bayville, New York. She received a B.A. from Trinity College (1988), an M.F.A. from Colorado State University (1996), and a Ph.D. from The University of Utah (2000). She has taught creative writing and literature at The University of Alabama since 2000, and lives in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP]  Time for Bed is a 1996 novel by David Baddiel (ISBN: 978-0751519785).
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP]  Bed, Bed, Bed is a book and EP package for children released by the musical group They Might Be Giants in 2003 (see 2003 in music) through Simon & Schuster. The book is composed of the lyrics of the four songs on the album, with illustrations by Marcel Dzama. The song "Bed, Bed, Bed, Bed, Bed" is a slower, quieter version of the song "Bed, Bed, Bed" from the album No!
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP]  for the catchy subtitle of "A new way of getting children to sleep". He released it on CreateSpace and it became a bestseller. ; Erotic romance author Meredith Wild sold 1.4 million digital and print copies of her books, and founded her own publishing company called Waterhouse Press; she founded the firm in part because she felt that her novels were "not being taken seriously" as an indie author. An advantage of having her own imprint is that it is easier to get books into chainstores and big-box retailers. The breakout hit Wool by Hugh Howey was self-published originally and garnered more than a million dollars in royalty monies, and has generated over 5000 Amazon reviews. ; James Altucher's
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP] Bed (short story collection)  Bed is a short story collection by Tao Lin, published in 2007. It was published simultaneously with his first novel, "Eeeee Eee Eeee". The two books were his first books of prose.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP] Bed of Roses (novel)  Bed of Roses is the second book of the Bride Quartet series, written by Nora Roberts. It focuses around the character of florist Emmaline "Emma" Grant.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP] California King Bed  "California King Bed" is a song by Barbadian singer Rihanna from her fifth studio album, "Loud" (2010). The song was written and produced by Andrew Harr and Jermaine Jackson, of the American production duo the Runners, with Priscilla Renea and Alex Delicata. The song was chosen to be a single from the album through Twitter, and it was released as the album's sixth single on May 13, 2011, by Def Jam. "California King Bed" is an rock and R&B power ballad.  Commercially, the song topped the Polish and Slovakian charts, achieved a top-five placing in Australia, Austria, Czech Republic and Portugal, while also reaching the top-ten in Germany, New Zealand, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and others. In the United States, it reached the top-forty on the "Billboard" Hot 100 chart and topped the Dance Club Songs chart.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP] Misery (film)  Misery is a 1990 American psychological thriller film directed by Rob Reiner, based on Stephen King's 1987 novel of the same name, starring James Caan, Kathy Bates, Lauren Bacall, Richard Farnsworth, and Frances Sternhagen. The plot centers around an obsessive fan who holds an author captive and forces him to rewrite the finale to his book series.  The film was released in the United States on November 30, 1990, by Columbia Pictures. It received highly positive reviews and was a box office success. Bates' performance drew widespread praise from critics and won her the Academy Award for Best Actress at the 63rd Academy Awards, making "Misery" the only film based on a Stephen King novel to win an Oscar. King himself has stated that "Misery" is one of his top ten favorite film adaptations.
Who is the author of Bed? [SEP] Good in Bed  Good In Bed is the debut novel of Jennifer Weiner. It tells the story of an overweight Jewish female journalist, her love and work life and her emotional abuse issues with her father. The novel was a "New York Times" Best Seller and is currently being adapted into a film produced by and starring Mindy Kaling for HBO Max. Aspects of the plot were inspired by Weiner's own life.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP]  Strait is the Gate (La Porte Étroite) is a 1909 French novel written by André Gide. It was translated into English by Dorothy Bussy. It probes the complexities and terrors of adolescence and growing up. Based on a Freudian interpretation, the story uses the influences of childhood experience and the misunderstandings that can arise between two people. Strait is the Gate taps the unassuaged memory of Gide's unsuccessful wooing of his cousin between 1888 and 1891. Much of the story is written as an epistolary novel between the Protagonist Jerome and his love Alissa. Much of the end of the novel is taken up by an exploration into Alissa's journal that details most of the events of the novel from her perspective.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP]  The collection was first published in 1902 by W Blackwood & Sons, and included the stories No Man's Land, The Far Islands, The Watcher by the Threshold, The Outgoing of the Tide and Fountainblue. Four of the stories had been published in Blackwood's Magazine between January 1899 and August 1901, and one ("The Outgoing of the Tide") in The Atlantic Monthly in January 1902. When it was published by George H. Doran in the US in 1918, Fountainblue was omitted, and four additional stories were added, The Rime of True Thomas, Basilissa, Divus Johnston and The King of Ypres.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP]  Invasion of the Church of the Holy Ghost” ; “An Encounter at Mortstone Pond” ; Afterword by Russell Kirk (“A Cautionary Note on the Ghostly Tale”): ; From the preface of the same title in his 1984 story collection Watchers at the Strait Gate ; This is not the essay of the same name reprinted in his 1962 story collection The Surly Sullen Bell These last three collections were prepared, by their respective editors and publishers, years after Kirk's death. The first two are uniform editions which, taken together, systematically collect all Kirk's stories. The third book gathers all but three of his stories in a single volume.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP]  George Packer (born August 13, 1960) is a US journalist, novelist, and playwright. He is best known for his writings for The New Yorker and The Atlantic about U.S. foreign policy and for his book The Assassins' Gate: America in Iraq. Packer also wrote The Unwinding: An Inner History of the New America, covering the history of the US from 1978 to 2012. In November 2013, The Unwinding received the National Book Award for Nonfiction. His award winning biography, Our Man: Richard Holbrooke and the End of the American Century, was released in May 2019. His latest book, Last Best Hope: America in Crisis and Renewal was released in June 2021.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP] 1) The Gates (2009) ; 2) The Infernals (2011), published as Hell's Bells in the UK ; 3) The Creeps (2013)
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP] Watchers at the Strait Gate  Watchers at the Strait Gate is a collection of stories by American writer Russell Kirk. It was released in 1984 and was the author's second book published by Arkham House, and Kirk's third collection of supernatural stories. It was published in an edition of 3,459 copies.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP] Russell Kirk bibliography  This is a list of works by American writer Russell Kirk.
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP]
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP] What Shadows We Pursue  What Shadows We Pursue (2003), subtitled "Ghost Stories, Volume Two", is a posthumously published collection of short stories by Russell Kirk (1918–1994). It is the second of two such hardcover collections from Ash-Tree Press, a noted contemporary publisher of classic ghost stories. Together with the previous companion volume, "Off the Sand Road" (2002), it contains the entire corpus of Kirk's short fiction—the only such undertaking by any publisher—including some pieces not easily categorized as ghost stories.  This limited edition book was edited and has an introduction by John Pelan. Its dust jacket front features a woodcut illustration by Kirk himself, with the same illustration reprinted on page 248 of the text. The whole volume is xiv + 254 pages long and, according to the volume's colophon, "was published on 28 March 2003 and is limited to Five Hundred copies with additional copies produced for legal deposit and contractual purposes." The texts are reprinted with Canadian/UK-style spelling and punctuation in accordance with the Canadian publisher's policy, though Kirk was an American.  The earlier companion volume, "Off the Sand Road", misprinted the story, "Fate's Purse". In this volume, the story's full text is restored as an appendix. A note, on page 228 of "What Shadows We Pursue", explains: "Unfortunately, a production error led to the final four paragraphs of the story being omitted from [the earlier] edition. To correct the error, we have preferred to include the full text of the story in this, the second volume."  This collection is named after one of its stories, "What Shadows We Pursue", which first appeared in the January, 1953, issue of "The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction".
Who is the author of Watchers at the Strait Gate? [SEP] 1984 in literature  This article contains information about the literary events and publications of 1984.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP]  A Thousand Bones is a book written by P. J. Parrish and published by Pocket Books (owned by Simon & Schuster ) on 1 January 2007, which later went on to win the Anthony Award for Best Paperback Original in 2008.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP]  Them Bones (1984) is the first solo novel by science fiction writer Howard Waldrop, noted for his short fiction. It was nominated for the Philip K. Dick Award in 1984, but lost out to William Gibson's Neuromancer; both novels were part of the third Ace Science Fiction Specials series edited by Terry Carr.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP]  Farming of Bones is a work of historical fiction by Edwidge Danticat, published in 1998. It tells the story of an orphaned young Haitian woman living in the Dominican Republic who gets caught up in the carnage of the Parsley massacre during the dictatorship of Rafael Trujillo.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP]  The Maze of Bones is the first novel of The 39 Clues series, written by Rick Riordan and published September 9, 2008 by Scholastic. It stars Amy and Dan Cahill, two orphans who discover, upon their grandmother Grace's death, that they are part of the powerful Cahill family, whose members constantly fight each other for Clues, which are ingredients to a mysterious serum. The novel has received generally positive reviews.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP]  The Bone World Trilogy is a trilogy for young adults by Irish author Peadar Ó Guilín. The series has elements of science fiction and fantasy. The first book in the trilogy, The Inferior, was published by David Fickling Books in 2007 (2008 in the U.S.A.), and the sequel, The Deserter, was published in September 2011.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP] Kathy Reichs  Kathleen Joan Reichs (née Toelle, born 1950) is an American crime writer, forensic anthropologist and academic. She is an adjunct professor of anthropology at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP] Bone (comics)  Bone is an American independently-published graphic novel series, written and illustrated by Jeff Smith, originally serialized in 55 irregularly released issues from 1991 to 2004. The series was self-published by Smith's Cartoon Books for issues #1-20, by Image Comics from issues #21-27, and back to Cartoon Books for issues #28-55.  Smith's black-and-white drawings, inspired by animated cartoons and comic strips, are singularly characterized by a mixture of both light-hearted comedy and dark fantasy thriller. The author, Jeff Smith, describes the comics as "a fish-out-of-water story. There are three modern characters who happen to be cartoons in the mold of Donald Duck or Bugs Bunny, and get lost in a fairy-tale valley. They spend a year there and make friends and enemies, finding themselves caught up in the trials and tribulations of the valley, and even a war".  "Bone" has received numerous awards, among them ten Eisner Awards and eleven Harvey Awards.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP] Bones (TV series)  Bones is an American crime procedural comedy-drama television series created by Hart Hanson for Fox. It premiered on September 13, 2005, and concluded on March 28, 2017, airing for 246 episodes over 12 seasons. The show is based on forensic anthropology and forensic archaeology, with each episode focusing on a Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) case file concerning the mystery behind human remains brought by FBI Special Agent Seeley Booth (David Boreanaz) to Temperance "Bones" Brennan (Emily Deschanel), a forensic anthropologist. It also explores the personal lives of the characters. The rest of the main cast includes Michaela Conlin, T. J. Thyne, Eric Millegan, Jonathan Adams, Tamara Taylor, John Francis Daley, and John Boyd.  The series is very loosely based on the life and novels of forensic anthropologist Kathy Reichs,<ref name="IGN2007" /> who also produced the show. Its title character, Temperance Brennan, is named after the protagonist of Reichs' crime novel series. In the "Bones" universe, Brennan writes successful mystery novels featuring a fictional forensic anthropologist named Kathy Reichs.  "Bones" is a joint production by Josephson Entertainment and Far Field Productions in association with 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television. The series is the longest-running one-hour drama series produced by 20th Century Fox Television.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP] Alice Sebold  Alice Sebold (born September 6, 1963) is an American author. She is known for her novels "The Lovely Bones" and "The Almost Moon", and a memoir, "Lucky". "The Lovely Bones" was on "The New York Times" Best Seller list and was adapted into a film by the same name in 2010. Her memoir, "Lucky", sold over a million copies and describes her experience in her first year at Syracuse University, when she was raped. Anthony Broadwater, who was incorrectly identified as the perpetrator by Sebold (and via a faulty method of hair analysis), ultimately served 16 years in prison. He was exonerated in 2021, after a judge found serious issues with the original conviction.
Who is the author of Bones? [SEP] The Bone People  The Bone People, styled by the writer and in some editions as the bone people, is a 1984 novel by New Zealand writer Keri Hulme. Set on the coast of the South Island of New Zealand, the novel focuses on three characters, all of whom are isolated in different ways: a reclusive artist, a mute child, and the child's foster father. Over the course of the novel the trio develop a tentative relationship, are driven apart by violence, and reunite. Māori and Pākehā (New Zealand European) culture, myths and language are blended through the novel. The novel has polarised critics and readers, with some praising the novel for its power and originality, while others have criticised Hulme's writing style and portrayals of violence.  Hulme spent many years working on the novel, but was unable to find a mainstream publisher who was willing to accept the book without significant editing; it was eventually published by the small all-women collective of Spiral. After initial commercial success in New Zealand, the book was published overseas and became the first New Zealand novel and first debut novel to win the Booker Prize in 1985, although not without controversy; two of the five judges opposed the book's choice for its portrayals of child abuse and violence. Nevertheless, the novel has remained popular into the 21st century, continuing to sell well in New Zealand and overseas, and is widely recognised as a New Zealand literary classic.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP]  Only Human is a BBC Books original novel written by Gareth Roberts and based on the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. It was published on 8 September 2005, alongside The Deviant Strain and The Stealers of Dreams. It features the Ninth Doctor, Rose Tyler and Captain Jack.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP]  Only Human by Eileen Wilks is a short story in the Lover Beware anthology. It is also the first story in the World of the Lupi series. It came out in July 2003.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP]  Human? is an anthology of science fiction and fantasy stories edited by Judith Merril, published as a paperback original by Lion Books in 1954. No further editions were issued.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] Only Human (2008)
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP]  This romantic suspense novel is the first novel Eileen Wilks wrote set in the World of the Lupi. After her editor (and the fans) enjoyed it so much Eileen asked if she could expand this short story into a full-blown series. Tempting Danger expands on this story and ends up taking the characters in different directions than the original short story.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] Only Human (Jonas Brothers song)  "Only Human" is a song by American pop rock group the Jonas Brothers. It was released on July 2, 2019, through Republic Records as the third and final single from their fifth studio album "Happiness Begins" (2019). The group co-wrote the song with its producer Shellback. "Only Human" is a reggae song that features twinkling keys, groovy bass, brass and percussive cadences in its production.  Upon release, "Only Human" was met with generally favourable reviews from music critics, who praised its music style and "textured" production. Commercially, the song peaked at number 18 on both the US "Billboard" Hot 100 and the Canadian Hot 100. The song reached top 40 in charts of numerous territories including Australia, Hungary, Ireland, Netherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Flanders and Wallonia regions of Belgium. It was certified gold in Belgium, platinum in France and double platinum in Canada.  An accompanying '80s-themed music video directed by Anthony Mandler was released on August 13, 2019. It depicts the Jonas Brothers singing and dancing in a crowded nightclub. To promote the song, the Jonas Brothers performed "Only Human" on several occasions and also included it on the set list for their Happiness Begins Tour (2019-2020).
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] Only Human (novel)  Only Human is a BBC Books original novel written by Gareth Roberts and based on the long-running British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". It was published on 8 September 2005, alongside "The Deviant Strain" and "The Stealers of Dreams". It features the Ninth Doctor, Rose Tyler and Captain Jack.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] Human, All Too Human  Human, All Too Human: A Book for Free Spirits () is a book by 19th-century philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche, originally published in 1878. A second part, Assorted Opinions and Maxims (), was published in 1879, and a third part, The Wanderer and his Shadow (), followed in 1880.  The book is Nietzsche's first in the aphoristic style that would come to dominate his writings, discussing a variety of concepts in short paragraphs or sayings. Reflecting an admiration of Voltaire as a free thinker, but also a break in his friendship with composer Richard Wagner two years earlier, Nietzsche dedicated the original 1878 edition of "Human, All Too Human" "to the memory of Voltaire on the celebration of the anniversary of his death, May 30, 1778". Instead of a preface, the first part originally included a quotation from Descartes's "Discourse on the Method". Nietzsche later republished all three parts as a two-volume edition in 1886, adding a preface to each volume, and removing the Descartes quotation as well as the dedication to Voltaire.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] No Longer Human  As of January 1, 2019, the book is in the public domain.
Who is the author of Only Human? [SEP] A Treatise of Human Nature  Contemporary philosophers have written of Hume that "no man has influenced the history of philosophy to a deeper or more disturbing degree", and that Hume's Treatise is "the founding document of cognitive science" and the "most important philosophical work written in English". However, the public in Britain at the time did not agree, nor in the end did Hume himself agree, reworking the material in "An Enquiry Concerning Human Understanding" (1748) and "An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals" (1751). In the Author's introduction to the former, Hume wrote:  Regarding "An Enquiry Concerning the Principles of Morals", Hume said: "of all my writings, historical, philosophical, or literary, incomparably the best".
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP]  Out of the Dark is an alien invasion science fiction novel by David Weber released by Tor Books on September 28, 2010. It is an extended version of the short story of the same name published in the 2010 anthology Warriors edited by Gardner Dozois and George R. R. Martin. A sequel, titled Into the Light, was published more than a decade later in January 2021.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP]  Out of the Dark (1995) is a children's novel by Canadian author Welwyn Wilton Katz. It centres on a young boy who had recently lost his mother, and who has just moved with his remaining family to a small village near L'Anse aux Meadows in Newfoundland. The book deals with his attempts to come to grips with his mother's death, his difficulty settling into his new home, his escapist fantasies about the long-ago Viking settlers of the area, and how these three strands interact. The novel was nominated for a Governor General's Award.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP] 1) Out of the Dark (September 2010; ISBN: 978-0-7653-2412-2) is an extended version of the 78-page story of the same name in the anthology Warriors (2010), edited by George R. R. Martin and Gardner Dozois. ISBN: 978-0-7653-2048-3. ; 2) Into the Light (January 2021; ISBN: 9780765331458), coauthored with Chris Kennedy, is a sequel to Out of the Dark.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP]  Out of Darkness is a 2015 historical young adult novel by Ashley Hope Pérez. The novel chronicles a love affair between a teenage Mexican American girl and a teenage African-American boy in 1930s New London, Texas, occurring right up to the 1937 New London School explosion. Juan Castillo of NBC News wrote that Out of Darkness "stares unflinchingly at racism, classism, segregation and the people who live on the margins of society." The book was released on September 1, 2015.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP]  Out of the Dark (1964) is a thriller novel by Ursula Curtiss, about how a prank call by a couple of teenagers ends up with a murderer on their trail. In 1965, the novel was filmed as I Saw What You Did, directed by William Castle and starring Joan Crawford; and again in 1988 for television with the same title, starring Shawnee Smith, Tammy Lauren and David and Robert Carradine.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP] Coming Out of the Dark  "Coming Out of the Dark" is a song by Cuban-American singer and songwriter Gloria Estefan. It was released on January 10, 1991, worldwide by Epic Records as the leading and first single from her second album, "Into the Light" (1991). It was written by Estefan with her husband Emilio Estefan, Jr. and Jon Secada, and produced by Estefan Jr., Jorge Casas and Clay Ostwald. It became the singer's third number one in the United States and second number one in Canada (solo and with Miami Sound Machine). The song is a soul ballad which includes the use of a choir. Among the voices in the choir are Estefan's colleague, the Cuban singer Jon Secada, and the R&B singer Betty Wright (both had participated in backing vocals on her debut solo album, "Cuts Both Ways" as well as "Into the Light"). The song's accompanying music video received heavy rotation on MTV Europe.   This is the first single released after Estefan's accident on March 20, 1990—an 18-wheeler rammed her tour bus, nearly causing the singer's death—when her "Get on Your Feet Tour" was in progress. It is also the first song that Estefan performed publicly after recovering, inspired by the near-fatal accident and also is dedicated to her husband. The title was inspired by a phrase her husband had written on a piece of paper as a helicopter transported her for delicate surgery to repair her broken back. She explained to "Billboard": "My husband had been in one of the helicopters traveling from one hospital to the other. It was really dark and gray, and he was traumatized. He got this ray of light that hit him in the face, and he got the idea for 'Coming Out of the Dark'."  Estefan was careful not to turn "Into the Light" into a pity party. "I hate pity," she told the "Los Angeles Daily News". "I'm very self-reliant and independent, and I'm used to that role. I don't like people feeling sorry for me. So I wrote 'Coming Out of the Dark' to let the people around me know how important they are to me. But that was as far as I wanted to go with the accident. I didn't want this to become 'the album on the accident.' What am I going to sing - 'Oh, this bus hit me'?"
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP] Heart of Darkness  Heart of Darkness (1899) is a novella by Polish-English novelist Joseph Conrad in which the sailor Charles Marlow tells his listeners the story of his assignment as steamer captain for a Belgian company in the African interior. The novel is widely regarded as a critique of European colonial rule in Africa, whilst also examining the themes of power dynamics and morality. Although Conrad does not name the river on which most of the narrative takes place, at the time of writing the Congo Free State, the location of the large and economically important Congo River, was a private colony of Belgium's King Leopold II. Marlow is given a text by Kurtz, an ivory trader working on a trading station far up the river, who has "gone native" and is the object of Marlow's expedition.  Central to Conrad's work is the idea that there is little difference between "civilised people" and "savages." "Heart of Darkness" implicitly comments on imperialism and racism. The novella's setting provides the frame for Marlow's story of his fascination for the prolific ivory trader Kurtz. Conrad draws parallels between London ("the greatest town on earth") and Africa as places of darkness.  Originally issued as a three-part serial story in "Blackwood's Magazine" to celebrate the 1000th edition of the magazine, "Heart of Darkness" has been widely republished and translated in many languages. It provided the inspiration for Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 film "Apocalypse Now". In 1998, the Modern Library ranked "Heart of Darkness" 67th on their list of the 100 best novels in English of the 20th century.
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP]
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP] Out of Darkness (novel)  Out of Darkness is a historical young adult novel by Ashley Hope Pérez, published September 1, 2015 by Carolrhoda Lab. The novel chronicles a love affair between a teenage Mexican-American girl and a teenage African-American boy in 1930s New London, Texas, occurring right up to the 1937 New London School explosion.  Juan Castillo of "NBC News" wrote that "Out of Darkness" "stares unflinchingly at racism, classism, segregation and the people who live on the margins of society."
Who is the author of Out of the Dark? [SEP] In the Dark (American TV series)  In the Dark is an American crime drama television series, created by Corinne Kingsbury for The CW, which debuted as a mid-season entry during the 2018–19 television season.  On January 30, 2018, The CW ordered the show to pilot, with Michael Showalter set to direct. In May 2018, the show received a series order. The series premiered on April 4, 2019. In April 2019, the series was renewed for a second season that premiered on April 16, 2020. In January 2020, The CW renewed the series for a third season which premiered on June 23, 2021. In February 2021, the series was renewed for a fourth season which premiered on June 6, 2022. In May 2022, it was announced that the fourth season will be its last.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP]  American Dream, Global Nightmare is a book by Ziauddin Sardar and Merryl Wyn Davies (Icon Books, 2004). It presents the neoconservative ideology of Pax Americana as ten laws.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP]  Who Stole the American Dream? is a non-fiction book by the American author and journalist Hedrick Smith published in 2012 by Random House. It describes the consolidation of wealth in the United States, and the dismantling of the middle class. As a result, the American Dream—a national ethos, or a set of ideals in which freedom includes the opportunity for prosperity and success, and an upward social mobility achieved through hard work—is becoming increasingly unattainable. Although Smith's distinguished journalistic career includes covering the Vietnam War, the Pentagon Papers, and the civil rights movement, serving as the Moscow Bureau Chief for the New York Times, writing a #1 bestseller, and working on 26 prime-time specials for PBS, he views this book as "'absolutely' his most significant achievement."
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP]  In an article in Maclean's which was published in 2011, the author John Geddes says that Brimelow's book The Patriot Game: National Dreams and Political Realities "offered a bracingly of-the-moment conservative critique of Canada," and said that it was instrumental in shaping the thought process of Canadian Prime Minister Mr. Stephen Harper.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP]  Ludwig is the editor of The Vanishing American Dream, a book that provides comments from experts across the political spectrum on the economic challenges facing lower- and middle-income Americans. The book examines how traditional economic measures like the unemployment rate and GDP are masking a crisis for millions of lower- and middle-income families, who struggle to afford health care, housing, and education and occupy jobs that cannot help them reverse the downward slide. The book, to be published September 22, 2020, was the outcome of a 2019 Yale Law School symposium organized by Ludwig. It includes commentary from 23 experts,
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] 2006: The Audacity of Hope: Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream (read by the author), Random House Audio, ISBN: 978-0-7393-6641-7 ; 2020: A Promised Land (read by the author)
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] American Dream  The American Dream is the national ethos of the United States, a set of ideals including representative democracy, rights, liberty, and equality, in which freedom is interpreted as the opportunity for individual prosperity and success, as well as upward social mobility for oneself and their children, achieved through hard work in a capitalist society with few barriers.  The term "American Dream" was coined by James Truslow Adams in 1931, saying that "life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement" regardless of social class or circumstances of birth.  Proponents of the American Dream often claim that its tenets originate from the United States Declaration of Independence, which states that "all men are created equal" with the right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness". The Preamble to the U.S. Constitution is used similarly. It states that the Constitution's purpose is to, in part, "secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity".  Throughout American history, there have been critics of its national ethos. Some critics point out that American focus on individualism and capital results in materialism, consumerism and a lack of worker solidarity. In 2015, only 10.5 percent of American workers were members of a labor union. The American Dream has also been criticized as a product of American exceptionalism, as it does not acknowledge the hardships many Americans face, namely in regards to the legacies of American slavery and Native American genocide, as well as other examples of discriminatory violence.   Belief in the American Dream is often inversely associated with rates of national dissolutionment. Evidence indicates that upward economic mobility has declined and income inequality has risen in the United States in recent decades.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] Chinese Dream  The Chinese Dream () is a term closely associated with Xi Jinping, the General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and China's paramount leader. Xi began promoting the phrase as a slogan during a high-profile tour of an exhibit at the National Museum of China in November 2012, shortly after he became leader of the CCP. The exhibit at that time was called the "Road to National Rejuvenation", and Xi said that the Chinese Dream is the "great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation" ().  Since then, use of the phrase has become widespread in official announcements and as the embodiment of the leadership's political ideology under Xi Jinping. Xi said that young people should "dare to dream, work assiduously to fulfill the dreams and contribute to the revitalization of the nation." There are various connotations and interpretations of the term.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] Pierre Berton  Pierre Francis de Marigny Berton, CC, O.Ont. (July 12, 1920 – November 30, 2004) was a Canadian writer, journalist and broadcaster. Berton wrote 50 best-selling books, mainly about Canadiana, Canadian history and popular culture. He also wrote critiques of mainstream religion, anthologies, children's books and historical works for youth. He was a reporter and war correspondent, an editor at "Maclean's Magazine" and "The Toronto Star" and, for 39 years, a guest on Front Page Challenge. He was a founder of the Writers' Trust of Canada, and won many honours and awards.
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] Field of Dreams  Field of Dreams is a 1989 American sports fantasy drama film written and directed by Phil Alden Robinson, based on Canadian novelist W. P. Kinsella's 1982 novel "Shoeless Joe". The film stars Kevin Costner as a farmer who builds a baseball field in his cornfield that attracts the ghosts of baseball legends, including Shoeless Joe Jackson (Ray Liotta) and the Chicago Black Sox. Amy Madigan, James Earl Jones, and Burt Lancaster (in his final film role) also star. It was theatrically released on May 5, 1989.  The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Score and Best Adapted Screenplay. In 2017, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who is the author of The National Dream? [SEP] Brown Girl Dreaming
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP]  Saints of Big Harbour is a novel by Lynn Coady, published in 2002 by Doubleday Canada. It was Coady's first novel to be published in the United States.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP]  In Saints of Big Harbour, Coady portrays a small community of Cape Breton Island, found off the coast of Nova Scotia. The book focuses on the perspectives of the main character, Guy Boucher, a fatherless Acadian teenager, and of those who surround him: his alcoholic uncle Isadore, a quietly wise girl named Pam, his draft-dodger English teacher and a group of boys stuck in emotional adolescence. As the story unfolds it becomes clear that Guy lives in a community firmly characterized by clichés of gender, beauty, strength, family and love.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP]  Published in 1997 and written by John Wagner, the Big Book of Martyrs examines the lives and deaths of Christian martyrs, including Saint Valentine, Joan of Arc, Saint Ursula, and Saint George. The last chapter deals with people who have been tortured for their faith in more recent history, demonstrating that religious fervor is not a thing of the past.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP]  Osmond is the author of cult fiction titles such as Big Fish (2004), High (2004) and Young British Slacker (2006). Big Fish was described by Spike as a must read for wannabe globe-trotters, armchair travellers and mystery fans, alike. Midwest Book Reviews said of Young British Slacker: "...compels the readers' attention with its unique writing style and tactile-perfect realism in its stream of consciousness thoughts and emotions of a wage slave."
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP]  Harbour Publishing is a Canadian independent book publisher. The company was founded in 1974 by Howard and Mary White, and is based in Pender Harbour, a small town on British Columbia's Sunshine Coast. Harbour mainly publishes books on British Columbian history, culture, wildlife and environment. To date, Harbour has published over 600 titles. Harbour Publishing is the exclusive distributor for Nightwood Editions, Bluefield Books and Lost Moose Books. In 2013, the owners of Harbour acquired Douglas & McIntyre.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP] Saints of Big Harbour  Saints of Big Harbour is a novel by Lynn Coady, published in 2002 by Doubleday Canada. It was Coady's first novel to be published in the United States.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP] Saint Peter Port  St. Peter Port () is a town and one of the ten parishes on the island of Guernsey in the Channel Islands. It is the capital of the Bailiwick of Guernsey as well as the main port. The population in 2019 was 18,958.  St. Peter Port is a small town (commonly referred to by locals as just "town") consisting mostly of steep narrow streets and steps on the overlooking slopes. It is known that a trading post/town existed here before Roman times with a pre-Christian name which has not survived.  The parish covers an area of 6.5 km. The postal code for addresses in the parish starts with GY1.  People from St. Peter Port, were nicknamed "les Villais" (the townspeople) or "cllichards" in Guernésiais.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP] Saint John, New Brunswick  Saint John is a seaport city of the Atlantic Ocean located on the Bay of Fundy in the province of New Brunswick, Canada. Saint John is the oldest incorporated city in Canada, established by royal charter on May 18, 1785, during the reign of King George III. The port is Canada's third-largest port by tonnage with a cargo base that includes dry and liquid bulk, break bulk, containers, and cruise. The city was the most populous in New Brunswick until the 2016 census, when it was overtaken by Moncton. It is currently the second-largest city in the province, with a population of 69,895 over an area of .  French explorer Samuel de Champlain landed at Saint John Harbour on June 24, 1604 (the feast of St. John the Baptist) and is where the Saint John River gets its name although Mi'kmaq and Wolastoqiyik peoples lived in the region for thousands of years prior calling the river Wolastoq. The Saint John area was an important area for trade and defence for Acadia during the French colonial era and Fort La Tour, in the city's harbour, was a pivotal battleground during the Acadian Civil War.  After over a century of ownership disputes over the land surrounding Saint John between the French and English, the English colonists deported the French colonists in 1755 and constructed Fort Howe above the harbour in 1779. In 1785, the City of Saint John was established by uniting the two towns of Parrtown and Carleton on each side of the harbour after the arrival of thousands of refugees from the American Revolution who wished to remain British and were forced to leave their U.S. homes. Over the next century, waves of immigration via Partridge Island, especially during the Great Famine, would fundamentally change the city's demographics and culture.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP] Saint Helena  Saint Helena () is a British overseas territory located in the South Atlantic Ocean. It is a remote volcanic tropical island west of the coast of south-western Africa, and east of Rio de Janeiro in South America. It is one of three constituent parts of the British Overseas Territory of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha.  Saint Helena measures about and has a population of 4,439 per the 2021 census.<ref name="statistics112021" /> It was named after Helena, mother of Constantine I. It is one of the most remote islands in the world and was uninhabited when discovered by the Portuguese enroute to the Indian subcontinent in 1502. For about four centuries the island was an important stopover for ships from Europe to Asia and back, while sailing around the African continent, until the opening of the Suez canal. St Helena is the United Kingdom's second-oldest overseas territory after Bermuda.   Saint Helena is known for being the site of Napoleon's second exile, following his final defeat in 1815.
Who is the author of Saints of Big Harbour? [SEP] Saint Mary Parish, Jamaica  Saint Mary is a parish located in the northeast section of Jamaica. With a population of 114,227 of noted slavery abolitionist James Phillippo, famed Jamaican writer and community activist Erna Brodber, and acclaimed music producer Chris Blackwell who is credited with "discovering" Bob Marley.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP]  Jeff Goldberg is an American writer, who has published on the cultural history of psychoactive drugs, and how they work in the brain. He is the author of Flowers in the Blood, a history of opium, and Anatomy of a Scientific Discovery, an account of the race to discover endorphins, the body's own morphine. He has also written numerous articles about science and medicine, for Life, Discover, Omni and other magazines internationally.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP]  and endocrine surgeon at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, and The New Yorker medical writer ; Tess Gerritsen, novelist ; Paul Kalanithi, neurosurgeon and author of When Breath Becomes Air ; Perri Klass, journalist, pediatrician, New York University professor ; Vincent Lam, Canadian writer (Bloodletting & Miraculous Cures) ; Asael Lubotzky, Israeli pediatrician, writer, and scientist ; C. J. Lyons, former pediatrician and thriller writer ; Amit Majmudar, poet, novelist, practicing radiologist, 1st Ohio poet laureate ; William James Maloney, American dentist, author ; Howard Markel, physician, medical historian, journalist, editor, national best selling author, and professor at The University of Michigan ; Siddhartha Mukherjee, oncologist, Pulitzer Prize winner, author of
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP]  Avorn is the author of the 2004 book "Powerful Medicines".
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] Endorphines(1987),Pythagora Press. ; Psychopharmachology(1990),Collana manuali di medicina,Masson. ; Dopamine and Mental Depression (1990),Paperback. ; Dysthymia: Diagnosis and Treatment (1998),Mediserve. ; Interview on neuroscience (2003),CUEC. ; Cocaine (2008),Rubbettino.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP]  Ott has written eight books, co-written five, and contributed to four others, and published many articles in the field of entheogens. He has collaborated with other researchers like Christian Rätsch, Jochen Gartz, and the late ethnomycologist R. Gordon Wasson. He translated Albert Hofmann's 1979 book LSD: My Problem Child (LSD: Mein Sorgenkind), and On Aztec Botanical Names by Blas Pablo Reko, into English. His articles have appeared in many publications, including The Entheogen Review, The Entheogen Law Reporter, the Journal of Cognitive Liberties, the Journal of Psychoactive Drugs (AKA the Journal of Psychedelic Drugs), the MAPS Bulletin, Head, High Times, Curare, Eleusis, Integration, Lloydia, The Sacred Mushroom Seeker, and several Harvard Botanical Museum pamphlets. He is a co-editor of Eleusis: Journal of Psychoactive Plants & Compounds, along with Giorgio Samorini.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] Endpeace  Endpeace is a 1996 novel from Australian author Jon Cleary. It was the thirteenth book featuring Sydney detective Scobie Malone.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] The war to end war  "The war to end war" (also "The war to end all wars"; originally from the 1914 book "The War That Will End War" by H. G. Wells) is a term for the First World War of 1914–1918. Originally an idealistic slogan, it is now mainly used sardonically, since not only was the First World War not history's final war, but its aftermath also indirectly contributed to the outbreak of the even more devastating Second World War.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] Jon Cleary  Jon Stephen Cleary (22 November 191719 July 2010) was an Australian writer and novelist. He wrote numerous books, including "The Sundowners" (1951), a portrait of a rural family in the 1920s as they move from one job to the next, and "The High Commissioner" (1966), the first of a long series of popular detective fiction works featuring Sydney Police Inspector Scobie Malone. A number of Cleary's works have been the subject of film and television adaptations.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] A Different Turf  A Different Turf is a 1997 novel from Australian author Jon Cleary, the fourteenth book featuring Sydney detective Scobie Malone. A series of gay bashings have taken place throughout Sydney and someone is murdering the culprits. Cleary explored the psychology of serial killers from Australia's leading police profiler, Inspector Bronwyn Killmier, who inspired the character of Tilly Orbost.
Who is the author of Endpeace? [SEP] A Peace to End All Peace  A Peace to End All Peace: The Fall of the Ottoman Empire and the Creation of the Modern Middle East (also subtitled Creating the Modern Middle East, 1914–1922) is a 1989 history book written by Pulitzer Prize for General Nonfiction finalist David Fromkin, which describes the events leading to the dissolution of the Ottoman Empire during World War I, and the drastic changes that took place in the Middle East as a result, which he believed led to a new world war that is still continuing. It has been widely praised. Richard Holbrooke wrote: “Without knowledge of its backstory, no policymaker will get the region right... Of the vast array of books on the region, none is more relevant than Fromkin’s sweeping epic, A Peace to End All Peace.” Wm. Roger Louis reviewed it in "The New York Times", judging the book "excellent ... Readers will come away... not only enlightened but challenged." "The Times" of London described the book as “the truth and nothing but the truth.”
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP]  Turning On is a collection of thirteen science fiction short stories by American writer Damon Knight. The stories were originally published between 1951 and 1965 in Galaxy, Analog and other science fiction magazines. An Ace paperback reprinting in 1967 omitted the story "The Handler". This story was also omitted in the 1966 reissue of the Doubleday hardback edition.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP]  Turning on the Girls is a 2001 American comedic dystopian science fiction novel written by Cheryl Benard.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] 1) Turnabout (2008)
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP]  The Turning is a play written by Bill McCluskey, based on The Turning, a publication of connected short stories by Australian writer Tim Winton. It spans from 1970–2001 in Western Australia, covering much of the life of protagonist Vic Lang.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP]  His book "Turning White" was taken from his personal journals and experiences from his disease. Lee had various television appearances to discuss his book, Turning White. He appeared on The Hour with George Stroumboulopoulos, Larry King Live, and 20/20.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] The Turn of the Screw  The Turn of the Screw is an 1898 horror novella by Henry James which first appeared in serial format in "Collier's Weekly" (January 27 – April 16, 1898). In October 1898, it was collected in "The Two Magics", published by Macmillan in New York City and Heinemann in London. The novella follows a governess who, caring for two children at a remote estate, becomes convinced that the grounds are haunted. "The Turn of the Screw" is considered a work of both Gothic and horror fiction.  In the century following its publication, critical analysis of the novella has undergone several major transformations. Initial reviews regarded it only as a frightening ghost story, but, in the 1930s, some critics suggested that the supernatural elements were figments of the governess' imagination. In the early 1970s, the influence of structuralism resulted in an acknowledgement that the text's ambiguity was its key feature. Later approaches incorporated Marxist and feminist thinking.  The novella has been adapted numerous times, including a Broadway play (1950), a chamber opera (1954), two films (in 1961 and 2020), and a miniseries (2020).
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] Turning Red  Turning Red is a 2022 American computer-animated fantasy comedy film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and distributed by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures. It was directed by Domee Shi in her feature directorial debut, written by Shi and Julia Cho, and produced by Lindsey Collins. It stars the voices of Rosalie Chiang, Sandra Oh, Ava Morse, Hyein Park, Maitreyi Ramakrishnan, Orion Lee, Wai Ching Ho, Tristan Allerick Chen, and James Hong. Set in Toronto, Ontario in 2002, the film follows Meilin "Mei" Lee (Chiang), a 13-year-old Chinese-Canadian student who, due to a hereditary curse, transforms into a giant red panda when she experiences any strong emotion.  It is the first Pixar film solely directed by a woman. Shi, who previously directed the short film "Bao" (2018), developed the film as her experiences growing up in Toronto. She pitched three concepts, including "Turning Red", to Pixar in October 2017. The film began development in May 2018 when Shi was announced as writer and director of an full-length film; several Pixar animators visited locations around Northern California gathering inspiration and visual references. The design and animation were inspired by anime works. To capture these anime influences, hand-drawn 2D animated effects were added atop Pixar's 3D animation. Development on "Turning Red" lasted for four years, on an approximate $175 million budget, becoming the fastest production for a Pixar film. Ludwig Göransson composed the film's musical score for his first animated film with Billie Eilish and Finneas O'Connell performing original songs for the film.  Special screenings of "Turning Red" took place in London at Everyman Borough Yards on February 21, 2022, and in Toronto at TIFF Bell Lightbox on March 8. It premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Los Angeles on March 1, and on March 11 was released on the Disney+ streaming service and at limited theaters. It was released theatrically in most countries without Disney+, grossing over $20 million, and became a critical success. The film was nominated for Best Animated Feature Film at the 80th Golden Globe Awards.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] The Power (Alderman novel)  The Power is a 2016 science fiction novel by the British writer Naomi Alderman. Its central premise is women developing the ability to release electrical jolts from their fingers, thus leading them to become the dominant sex.  In June 2017, "The Power" won the Baileys Women's Prize for Fiction. The book was also named by The New York Times as one of the 10 Best Books of 2017.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] The Turning Point (book)  The Turning Point: Science, Society, and the Rising Culture is a 1982 book by Fritjof Capra, in which the author examines perceived scientific and economic crises through the perspective of systems theory.
Who is the author of Turning On? [SEP] Robert Greene (American author)  Robert Greene (born May 14, 1959) is an American author of books on strategy, power, and seduction. He has written six international bestsellers, including "The 48 Laws of Power", "The Art of Seduction", "The 33 Strategies of War", "The 50th Law" (with rapper 50 Cent), "Mastery", and "The Laws of Human Nature".  Greene says that he does not try to follow all of his advice as, "Anybody who did would be a horrible ugly person to be around."
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP]  Something More is a science fantasy novel by Paul Cornell, first published by Gollancz in 2001. It was Cornell's first (non-tie-in) novel to be published. The novel is set in a future Britain circa 2248, and the plot centres on the investigation of a mysterious stately home called Heartsease.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] Something More Than Night (2013, Tor Books, ISBN: 9780765334329)
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP]  His monograph, More Is More, explores his working methodologies and influences and was published in 2011. More Is More was written by Dani Navarro.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP]  Something More is a 1999 Canadian comedy film directed by Rob W. King. It stars Michael A. Goorjian, Chandra West, David Lovgren and Jennifer Beals. The film was written by Peter Bryant, and produced by Minds Eye Entertainment.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP]  More Than This is a young adult novel by Patrick Ness, published by Candlewick Press in 2013. It follows a teenage boy named Seth who, after drowning in the ocean, wakes up alone on a desolate suburban English street in what he believes to be hell.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] Can't We Talk About Something More Pleasant?  Can't We Talk About Something More Pleasant? is a 2014 graphic memoir of American cartoonist and author Roz Chast. The book is about Chast's parents in their final years. Her father, George, died at the age of 95 and her mother, Elizabeth, who worked as an assistant elementary school principal, died at the age of 97. The author derived the book's title from her parents' refusal to discuss their advancing years and infirmities. Chast's cartoons have appeared in "The New Yorker" magazine since 1978.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] Something More (novel)  Something More is a science fantasy novel by Paul Cornell, first published by Gollancz in 2001. It was Cornell's first (non-tie-in) novel to be published.  The novel is set in a future Britain circa 2248, and the plot centres on the investigation of a mysterious stately home called Heartsease.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] Mahoromatic  An anime adaptation of "Mahoromatic" produced by studios Gainax and Shaft aired in Japan from October to December 2001, and was followed by a second season airing from September 2002 to January 2003.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] Something There  "Something There" is a song written by lyricist Howard Ashman and composer Alan Menken for Walt Disney Pictures 30th animated feature film "Beauty and the Beast" (1991). Sung by the majority of the film's main cast, the song was recorded by American actors Paige O'Hara as Belle and Robby Benson as the Beast via voice over, featuring actors Jerry Orbach, Angela Lansbury and David Ogden Stiers as Lumiere, Mrs. Potts and Cogsworth, respectively. The only song performed by the Beast, "Something There" is heard midway through "Beauty and the Beast "during a scene in which Belle and the Beast finally begin to acknowledge their feelings for each other.  A last-minute addition to the film, the simple love song was quickly written by Ashman and Menken to replace the more elaborate and ambitious "Human Again" after the latter was cut from "Beauty and the Beast". O'Hara based her own vocal performance on that of American singer and actress Barbra Streisand, whom Ashman advised the actress to impersonate, while O'Hara herself convinced the songwriters to have Benson record the song. Critical reception towards "Something There" has been positive, with film and music critics alike praising Ashman's abilities as both a songwriter and a storyteller.
Who is the author of Something More? [SEP] The Witcher  The Witcher ( ) is a series of six fantasy novels and 15 short stories written by Polish author Andrzej Sapkowski. The series revolves around the eponymous "witcher", Geralt of Rivia. In Sapkowski's works, "witchers" are beast hunters who develop supernatural abilities at a young age to battle wild beasts and monsters. "The Witcher" began with a titular 1986 short story that Sapkowski entered into a competition held by "Fantastyka" magazine, marking his debut as an author. Due to reader demand, Sapkowski wrote 14 more stories before starting a series of novels in 1994. Known as "The Witcher Saga", he wrote one book a year until the fifth and final installment in 1999. A standalone prequel novel, "Season of Storms", was published in 2013.  The books have been described as having a cult following in Poland and Central and Eastern European countries. They have been translated into 37 languages and sold over 15 million copies worldwide as of December 2019. They have also been adapted into a film ("The Hexer"), two television series ("The Hexer" and "The Witcher"), several video games, and two comic book series. The video games have been even more successful, with more than 50 million copies sold as of May 2020.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP]  The Romantic (2003) is the sixth novel by Canadian novelist and short story writer Barbara Gowdy. It was longlisted for the Man Booker Prize in the same year
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP]  The Romantics (1999) is the debut novel of Pankaj Mishra, the author of Butter Chicken in Ludhiana: Travels in Small Town India (1995), An End to Suffering: The Buddha in the World (2004) and Temptations of the West: How to be Modern in India, Pakistan and Beyond (2006). The Romantics is an ironic tale of people longing for fulfillment in cultures other than their own. It was published in eleven European languages and won the Los Angeles Times Art Seidenbaum award for first fiction.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP]  constraints of rationalism imposed by the Enlightenment, and associated classical aesthetic values, were also a significant influence. In addition to Walpole, Scott, and the Brontës other romance writers (as defined by Scott) include E. T. A. Hoffmann, Victor Hugo, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Robert Louis Stevenson, and Thomas Hardy. In the twentieth century, examples are, Joseph Conrad, John Cowper Powys, and more recently, J. R. R. Tolkien and A. S. Byatt, whose best-selling novel Possession: A Romance won the Booker Prize in 1990. Though the modern literary romances has its beginnings in the eighteenth century, the genre has a long history that includes the ancient Greek novel and medieval romances.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP]  ; Marilyn Jaye Lewis, author of Neptune and Surf and Lust: Bisexual Erotica ; Marco Vassi, author of "The Erotic Comedies", "Devil's Sperm Is Cold", and "The Stoned Apocalypse" ; Mario Vargas Llosa, author of The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto ; Mark Twain, author of 1601 ; the Marquis de Sade, author of Justine, or the Misfortunes of Virtue ; Maxim Jakubowski, editor of the Mammoth Erotica series and a major erotica writer in his own right ; M. Christian, author of ''The Bachelor Machine and other works ; Mitzi Szereto, author of The Wilde Passions of Dorian Gray, Pride and Prejudice: Hidden Lusts, and Phantom: The Immortal, among others. ; Nicolas Chorier &ndash;
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP]  Mario Praz (September 6, 1896, Rome – March 23, 1982, Rome) was an Italian-born critic of art and literature, and a scholar of English literature. His best-known book, The Romantic Agony (1933), was a comprehensive survey of the decadent, erotic and morbid themes that characterised European authors of the late 18th and 19th centuries (see Femme fatale for a reference of one of his chapters). The book was written and published first in Italian as La carne, la morte e il diavolo nella letteratura romantica in 1930; and the most recent edition was published in Florence by Sansoni in 1996.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP] Romanticism  Romanticism (also known as the Romantic movement or Romantic era) was an artistic, literary, musical, and intellectual movement that originated in Europe towards the end of the 18th century, and in most areas was at its peak in the approximate period from 1800 to 1850. Romanticism was characterized by its emphasis on emotion and individualism, clandestine literature, paganism, idealization of nature, suspicion of science and industrialization, and glorification of the past with a strong preference for the medieval rather than the classical. It was partly a reaction to the Industrial Revolution, the social and political norms of the Age of Enlightenment, and the scientific rationalization of nature. It was embodied most strongly in the visual arts, music, and literature, but had a major impact on historiography, education, chess, social sciences, and the natural sciences. It had a significant and complex effect on politics, with romantic thinkers influencing conservatism, liberalism, radicalism, and nationalism.  The movement emphasized intense emotion as an authentic source of aesthetic experience, placing new emphasis on such emotions as fear, horror, terror and awe — especially that experienced in confronting the new aesthetic categories of the sublime and beauty of nature. It elevated folk art and ancient custom to something noble, but also spontaneity as a desirable characteristic (as in the musical impromptu). In contrast to the rationalism and classicism of the Enlightenment, Romanticism revived medievalism and elements of art and narrative perceived as authentically medieval in an attempt to escape population growth, early urban sprawl, and industrialism.  Although the movement was rooted in the German "Sturm und Drang" movement, which preferred intuition and emotion to the rationalism of the Enlightenment, the events and ideologies of the French Revolution were also proximate factors since many of the early Romantics were cultural revolutionaries and sympathetic to the revolution. Romanticism assigned a high value to the achievements of "heroic" individualists and artists, whose examples, it maintained, would raise the quality of society. It also promoted the individual imagination as a critical authority allowed of freedom from classical notions of form in art. There was a strong recourse to historical and natural inevitability, a "Zeitgeist", in the representation of its ideas. In the second half of the 19th century, Realism was offered as a polar opposite to Romanticism. The decline of Romanticism during this time was associated with multiple processes, including social and political changes.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP] Barbara Cartland  Dame Mary Barbara Hamilton Cartland, (9 July 1901 – 21 May 2000) published as Barbara Cartland was an English writer, known as the Queen of Romance, who published both contemporary and historical romance novels, the latter set primarily during the Victorian or Edwardian period. Cartland is one of the best-selling authors worldwide of the 20th century.  Many of her novels have been adapted to films for television including "A Hazard of Hearts", "A Ghost in Monte Carlo" and "Duel of Hearts". Her novels have been translated from English into numerous languages, making Cartland the fifth most translated author worldwide (note: not including biblical works). Her prolific output totals some 723 novels and she is credited in the "Guinness World Records" for the most novels published in a single year (1977).  Although best known for her romantic novels, she also wrote non-fiction titles including biographies, plays, music, verse, drama, operettas, and several health and cook books. She also contributed advice to TV audiences and newspaper magazine articles.<ref name="telegraph" />  She sold more than 750 million copies of her books, The covers of her novels featured portrait-style artwork, usually designed by Francis Marshall (19011980).  Cartland was also a businesswoman who was head of "Cartland Promotions". She was a London society figure, often dressed in a pink chiffon gown, a plumed hat, blonde wig, and heavy make-up.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP] List of romantic novelists  Notable novelists who specialise or specialised in writing romance novels include:
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP] Romanticism in Spanish literature  Romanticism arrived late and lasted only for a short but intense period, since in the second half of the 19th century it was supplanted by Realism, whose nature was antithetical to that of Romantic literature.
Who is the author of The Romantic? [SEP] E. T. A. Hoffmann  Ernst Theodor Amadeus Hoffmann (born Ernst Theodor Wilhelm Hoffmann; 24 January 1776 – 25 June 1822) was a German Romantic author of fantasy and Gothic horror, a jurist, composer, music critic and artist. His stories form the basis of Jacques Offenbach's opera "The Tales of Hoffmann", in which Hoffmann appears (heavily fictionalized) as the hero. He is also the author of the novella "The Nutcracker and the Mouse King", on which Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's ballet "The Nutcracker" is based. The ballet "Coppélia" is based on two other stories that Hoffmann wrote, while Schumann's "Kreisleriana" is based on Hoffmann's character Johannes Kreisler.  Hoffmann's stories highly influenced 19th-century literature, and he is one of the major authors of the Romantic movement.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]  Buried Thunder is a young adult novel written by British author Tim Bowler. It was first published in 2011 in the UK. It is a psychological thriller whose central character is a fourteen-year-old girl called Maya who has just moved to the countryside with her parents and brother. She senses an evil presence in the hotel where they are living and makes a horrific discovery in the forest nearby.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]  Buried Fire is a fantasy novel by Jonathan Stroud first published in 1999 by The Bodley Head. It was initially part of the Fire Chronicles, but later the series was disbanded by the publisher. It was supposed to be called The Four Gifts.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]  Thunder Cave is a young adult adventure novel by Roland Smith, first published by Hyperion Books in 1995. It is the first of three books, being followed by Jaguar and The Last Lobo.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]  a story about memory, secrets and betrayal; Buried Thunder (2011), a dark psychological thriller; and Sea of Whispers (2013), a haunting and mysterious story set on the remote island of Mora. Blade (2008 to 2013) is a series of urban thrillers. Reviewing it for The Bookbag, Jill Murphy wrote, "Nobody in children's writing is producing anything like this. It's electrifying." Some editions in translation (e.g. Germany and Korea) are four books, each comprising two original volumes. Bowler speaks at conferences, schools, and book festivals and makes regular appearances on radio. He lives in a village in Devon and writes in a small stone outhouse.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]  The House of Thunder is a novel written by best-selling author Dean Koontz, released in 1982. The book was originally published under the pseudonym Leigh Nichols.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP] Buried Thunder  Buried Thunder is a young adult novel written by British author Tim Bowler. It was first published in 2011 in the UK. It is a psychological thriller whose central character is a fourteen-year-old girl called Maya who has just moved to the countryside with her parents and brother. She senses an evil presence in the hotel where they are living and makes a horrific discovery in the forest nearby.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP] The Thunder, Perfect Mind  "The Thunder, Perfect Mind" is a text originally discovered among the Gnostic manuscripts in the Nag Hammadi library in 1945. It follows a poetic structure, and has received scholarly attention for its gnomic style and unclear subject.
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP] Tim Bowler  Tim Bowler (born 14 November 1953) is an author of books for teenagers and young adults. He won the 1997 from the CILIP, recognising the year's book author by a British subject, for the novel "River Boy".<ref name=medal1997/>  "The Sunday Telegraph" has called him "the master of thriller" and "The Independent" "one of the truly individual voices in writing ".
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP]
Who is the author of Buried Thunder? [SEP] Zeus  Zeus () is the sky and thunder god in ancient Greek religion, who rules as king of the gods on Mount Olympus. His name is cognate with the first element of his Roman equivalent Jupiter. His mythology and powers are similar, though not identical, to those of Indo-European deities such as Jupiter, Perkūnas, Perun, Indra, Dyaus, and Zojz.<ref name=Hyllested&Joseph/>  Zeus is the child of Cronus and Rhea, the youngest of his siblings to be born, though sometimes reckoned the eldest as the others required disgorging from Cronus's stomach. In most traditions, he is married to Hera, by whom he is usually said to have fathered Ares, Eileithyia, Hebe, and Hephaestus. by whom the "Iliad" states that he fathered Aphrodite. According to the "Theogony", Zeus' first wife was Metis, by whom he had Athena.<ref name=":hsdm"/> Zeus was also infamous for his erotic escapades. These resulted in many divine and heroic offspring, including Apollo, Artemis, Hermes, Persephone, Dionysus, Perseus, Heracles, Helen of Troy, Minos, and the Muses.<ref name="Hamilton1942"/>  He was respected as an allfather who was chief of the gods and assigned roles to the others: "Even the gods who are not his natural children address him as Father, and all the gods rise in his presence." He was equated with many foreign weather gods, permitting Pausanias to observe "That Zeus is king in heaven is a saying common to all men". Zeus' symbols are the thunderbolt, eagle, bull, and oak. In addition to his Indo-European inheritance, the classical "cloud-gatherer" (Greek: , "Nephelēgereta") also derives certain iconographic traits from the cultures of the ancient Near East, such as the scepter. Zeus is frequently depicted by Greek artists in one of three poses: standing, striding forward with a thunderbolt leveled in his raised right hand, or seated in majesty. It was very important for the lightning to be exclusively in the god's right hand as the Greeks believed that people who were left-handed were associated with bad luck.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP]  Not Enough Time (足りない時間) is a Japanese manga written and illustrated by Shoko Hidaka (日高 ショーコ). It is licensed in North America by Digital Manga Publishing, which released the manga through its imprint, Juné, on July 25, 2007. It is licensed in Taiwan by Sharp Point Press and in Germany by Carlsen Verlag.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP]  Time Enough for Love is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, first published in 1973. The work was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1973 and both the Hugo and Locus Awards in 1974.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP]  The Enough Moment: Fighting to End Africa's Worst Human Rights Crimes is the second book co-authored by actor Don Cheadle, and co-founder of the Enough Project and human rights activist, John Prendergast. Cheadle and Prendergast's first book, Not On Our Watch: The Mission to End Genocide in Darfur and Beyond, was published in 2007.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP]  physics (World Enough and Space-Time: Absolute versus Relational Theories of Space and Time), geopolitics (World Enough and Time: Successful Strategies for Resource Management), a science-fiction collection (Worlds Enough & Time: Five Tales of Speculative Fiction), and a biography of the poet (World Enough and Time: The Life of Andrew Marvell). The phrase is used as a title chapter in Andreas Wagner's pop science book on the origin of variation in organisms, "Arrival of the Fittest". The verse serves as an epigraph to Mimesis, literary critic Erich Auerbach's most famous book. It is also the title of an episode of Big Finish Productions's The Diary of River Song series
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP]  World and Time Enough is a 1994 independent gay-themed romantic comedy-drama written and directed by Eric Mueller and starring Gregory Giles, Matt Guidry and Kraig Swartz. It was filmed on location in Edina and Minneapolis, Minnesota.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP] Time Enough for Love  Time Enough for Love is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein, first published in 1973. The work was nominated for the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1973 and both the Hugo and Locus Awards in 1974.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP] Time Enough at Last  "Time Enough at Last" is the eighth episode of the American television anthology series "The Twilight Zone". The episode was adapted from a short story written by Lynn Venable. The short story appeared in the January 1953 edition of the science fiction magazine "If: Worlds of Science Fiction" about seven years before the television episode first aired.  "Time Enough at Last" became one of the most famous episodes of the original "Twilight Zone". It is "the story of a man who seeks salvation in the rubble of a ruined world" and tells of Henry Bemis (), played by Burgess Meredith, who loves books yet is surrounded by those who would prevent him from reading them. The episode follows Bemis through the post-apocalyptic world, touching on such social issues as anti-intellectualism, the dangers of reliance upon technology, and the difference between solitude and loneliness.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP] To His Coy Mistress  "To His Coy Mistress" is a metaphysical poem written by the English author and politician Andrew Marvell (1621–1678) either during or just before the English Interregnum (1649–60). It was published posthumously in 1681.  This poem is considered one of Marvell's finest and is possibly the best recognised carpe diem poem in English. Although the date of its composition is not known, it may have been written in the early 1650s. At that time, Marvell was serving as a tutor to the daughter of the retired commander of the New Model Army, Sir Thomas Fairfax.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP] Robert A. Heinlein  Robert Anson Heinlein (; July 7, 1907 – May 8, 1988) was an American science fiction author, aeronautical engineer, and naval officer. Sometimes called the "dean of science fiction writers", he was among the first to emphasize scientific accuracy in his fiction, and was thus a pioneer of the subgenre of hard science fiction. His published works, both fiction and non-fiction, express admiration for competence and emphasize the value of critical thinking. His plots often posed provocative situations which challenged conventional social mores. His work continues to have an influence on the science-fiction genre, and on modern culture more generally.  Heinlein became one of the first American science-fiction writers to break into mainstream magazines such as "The Saturday Evening Post" in the late 1940s. He was one of the best-selling science-fiction novelists for many decades, and he, Isaac Asimov, and Arthur C. Clarke are often considered the "Big Three" of English-language science fiction authors. Notable Heinlein works include "Stranger in a Strange Land", "Starship Troopers" (which helped mold the space marine and mecha archetypes) and "The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress". yet often stereotypically feminine—such as "Friday".  A writer also of many science-fiction short stories, Heinlein was one of a group of writers who came to prominence under the editorship (1937–1971) of John W. Campbell at "Astounding Science Fiction" magazine, though Heinlein denied that Campbell influenced his writing to any great degree.  Heinlein used his science fiction as a way to explore provocative social and political ideas and to speculate how progress in science and engineering might shape the future of politics, race, religion, and sex. Within the framework of his science-fiction stories, Heinlein repeatedly addressed certain social themes: the importance of individual liberty and self-reliance, the nature of sexual relationships, the obligation individuals owe to their societies, the influence of organized religion on culture and government, and the tendency of society to repress nonconformist thought. He also speculated on the influence of space travel on human cultural practices.  Heinlein was named the first Science Fiction Writers Grand Master in 1974.  Several of Heinlein's works have been adapted for film and television.
Who is the author of Time Enough? [SEP] In Time  In Time is a 2011 American science fiction action film written, directed and produced by Andrew Niccol. Amanda Seyfried and Justin Timberlake star as inhabitants of a society which uses time from one's lifespan as its primary currency, with each individual possessing a clock on their arm that counts down how long they have to live. Cillian Murphy, Vincent Kartheiser, Olivia Wilde, Matt Bomer, Johnny Galecki, and Alex Pettyfer also star. The film was released on October 28, 2011.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]  Operator is a 2016 American comedy-drama film directed by Logan Kibens from a screenplay by Sharon Greene and Logan Kibens. It stars Martin Starr as Joe, a programmer and obsessive self-quantifier, and Mae Whitman as Emily, a budding comedy performer, who are a happily married couple until they decide to use one another in their work. Nat Faxon, Cameron Esposito, Retta, and Christine Lahti co-star. The film had its world premiere at the SXSW Film Festival on March 12, 2016 and was released by The Orchard on November 8, 2016.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]  Operator is an American post-grunge band from Los Angeles, California, United States. The name Operator was used for a solo project created by Johnny Strong, an actor and musician, who has appeared in movies such as Black Hawk Down (2001), The Fast and the Furious (2001), Get Carter (2000) and The Glimmer Man (1996).
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]  C. Peter Wagner said this book “is the new operator’s manual for those who want to be participants, not just spectators, in today’s prophetic movement. This book will help you put it all together, get it up and running, and troubleshoot whatever problems arise.”
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]  Operator is a play by David Williamson. Williamson's son Rory played the lead role during its original production.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]  Operator is a 2015 American action thriller drama film directed by Amariah Olson and Obin Olson and starring Luke Goss, Mischa Barton, Michael Paré and Ving Rhames.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP] Safe navigation operator  In object-oriented programming, the safe navigation operator (also known as optional chaining operator, safe call operator, null-conditional operator, null-propagation operator) is a binary operator that returns null if its first argument is null; otherwise it performs a dereferencing operation as specified by the second argument (typically an object member access, array index, or lambda invocation).  It is used to avoid sequential explicit null checks and assignments and replace them with method/property chaining. In programming languages where the navigation operator (e.g. ".") leads to an error if applied to a null object, the safe navigation operator stops the evaluation of a method/field chain and returns null as the value of the chain expression. It was first used by Groovy 1.0 in 2007 and is currently supported in languages such as C#, Swift,  TypeScript,<ref name="TypeScript - Optional Chaining"/>  Ruby, Kotlin, Rust<ref name="Rust - QuestionMarkOperator"/> and others. There is currently no common naming convention for this operator, but safe navigation operator is the most widely used term.  The main advantage of using this operator is that it avoids the pyramid of doom. Instead of writing multiple nested codice_1s, programmers can just use usual chaining, but add question mark symbols before dots (or other characters used for chaining).  While the safe navigation operator and null coalescing operator are both null-aware operators, they are operationally different.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP] Reminiscences of a Stock Operator  Reminiscences of a Stock Operator is a 1923 roman à clef by American author Edwin Lefèvre. It is told in the first person by a character inspired by the life of stock trader Jesse Livermore up to that point.  The book remains in print (). In December 2009, Wiley published an annotated edition in hardcover, , that bridges the gap between Lefèvre's fictionalized account and the actual people and places referred to in the book. It also includes a foreword by hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP]
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP] Smooth Operator  "Smooth Operator" is a song by English band Sade from their debut studio album, "Diamond Life" (1984). It was released as the album's third single in the United Kingdom as a 7-inch single with "Spirit" as its B-side, and as a 12-inch maxi single with "Smooth Operator" and "Red Eye" on side A and "Spirit" on side B. Released on 28 August 1984, it reached number 19 on the UK Singles Chart.  In the United States, "Smooth Operator" was released in February 1985, serving as the album's second US single. The song became Sade's first top-10 entry in the US, peaking at number five on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for two weeks in May 1985. It spent 13 weeks in the top 40, and also topped the "Billboard" Adult Contemporary chart for two weeks.   Although "Your Love Is King" remains Sade's highest-peaking single in the UK to date, "Smooth Operator" is the band's breakthrough single on the US charts, and their most successful single internationally.
Who is the author of Operator? [SEP] Bastard Operator From Hell  The Bastard Operator From Hell (BOFH) is a fictional rogue computer operator created by Simon Travaglia, who takes out his anger on users (who are "lusers" to him) and others who pester him with their computer problems, uses his expertise against his enemies and manipulates his employer.<ref name=PR/><ref name="JF" />  Several other people have written stories about BOFHs, but those by Simon Travaglia are considered canonical.<ref name="JF" />  The BOFH stories were originally posted in 1992 to Usenet by Travaglia, with some being reprinted in "Datamation." They were published weekly from 1995 to 1999 in "Network Week." Since 2000 they have been published regularly in "The Register" (UK). Several collections of the stories have been published as books.  By extension, the term is also used to refer to any system administrator who displays the qualities of the original.  The early accounts of the BOFH took place in a university; later the scenes were set in an office workplace. In 2000 (BOFH 2k), the BOFH and his pimply-faced youth (PFY) assistant moved to a new company.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP]  Cunliffe has been a regular contributor to Yachting Monthly, Yachting World, Sail magazine,Classic Boat and 'Sailing Today' for many years. A professional writer since 1986, Cunliffe has won the Best Book of the Sea award twice, for Topsail and Battleaxe and Hand, Reef and Steer. He is author of the important Shell Channel Pilot for the English Channel. In 2010 he presented the award-winning six-part BBC documentary series, The Boats that Built Britain. He also presented the popular 'Boat Yard' series for Discovery TV. He now has a big following on his Youtube channel, 'Yachts and Yarns'.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP]  Sail was born in London and brought up in Exeter. He studied French and German at Oxford University and subsequently taught for some years in Kenya, before returning to the UK, where he taught at Blundell's School and, later, Exeter School (where the modern languages department was headed by Harry Guest, another published poet). He is now a freelance writer. Sail has published nine poetry collections, the most recent being Eye-Baby (2006); The World Returning (2002), Building into Air (1995), and Out of Land: New and Selected Poems (1992), and has edited a number of anthologies, including The New Exeter Book of Riddles (1999) with Kevin
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] 1982 – co-writer,The Compleat Beatles. ASIN 6301966376. ; 1987–88 – host and writer, The Annapolis Book of Seamanship: Volume One: Cruising Under Sail (ISBN: 0-924819-00-6) and four subsequent instructional videos in this series on sailing, plus a video on powerboat navigation. ; 2011 – host, Lifesling Training Video, The Sailing Foundation. ; 2011 – Report of Annapolis accident review, U.S. Sailing Association Annual Meeting, October 29, 2011.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Co-Author “Understanding Match Racing” (North Sails CD) now in its fourth edition ; Authored rules and tactics for Virtual Spectator (America's Cup 30 & 31) ; Coach – New Zealand Olympic Sailing Team Barcelona (1992) and Atlanta (1996).
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP]  and First and Always: Poems for Great Ormond Street Children’s Hospital (1988). He also edited South-West Review from 1980 to 1985. Sail works in schools and colleges, and has also written a radio play, as well as short features for radio. He has presented the BBC Radio 3 programme 'Poetry Now' and 'Time for Verse' on BBC Radio 4. He was chairman of the Arvon Foundation from 1990 to 1994, has directed the Cheltenham Literature Festival, was the UK jury member for the European Literature Prize (1994–96), has been a judge for the Whitbread Prize and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Mahabaleshwar Sail  Mahabaleshwar Sail (born 4 August 1943) is an Indian author. He has been honoured with the Saraswati Samman, 2016 for his novel 'Hawthan' (हावटण).
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Sail On, Sailor  "Sail On, Sailor" (mislabeled "Sail On Sailor" on original pressings) is a song by American rock band the Beach Boys from their 1973 album "Holland". It was written primarily by Van Dyke Parks and Brian Wilson with Ray Kennedy, Tandyn Almer, and Jack Rieley. The song was released as a single in 1973, backed with "Only with You", and peaked at number 79 on the American singles charts. A 1975 reissue (also backed with "Only with You") charted higher, at number 49.  Wilson himself later stated, "It's the only song that we did that I absolutely do not like at all. I never liked 'Sail On, Sailor'." Nonetheless, according to biographer Jon Stebbins, the song "is perhaps the only perennial Beach Boys favorite to still thrive in the classic rock and album rock FM radio formats of the present."
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Sailing to Byzantium  "Sailing to Byzantium" is a poem by William Butler Yeats, first published in the 1928 collection "The Tower". It comprises four stanzas in ottava rima, each made up of eight lines of iambic pentameter. It uses a journey to Byzantium (Constantinople) as a metaphor for a spiritual journey. Yeats explores his thoughts and musings on how immortality, art, and the human spirit may converge. Through the use of various poetic techniques, Yeats's "Sailing to Byzantium" describes the metaphorical journey of a man pursuing his own vision of eternal life as well as his conception of paradise.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Sailing (Sutherland Brothers song)  "Sailing" is a song composed by Gavin Sutherland of the Sutherland Brothers in 1972, best known as a 1975 international hit for Rod Stewart.
Who is the author of Sail? [SEP] Sail and Storm  Sail and Storm is written by Hanna Mina and was published by The House of Arts (Dar- Al-Adab). This novel is listed as one of the by the Arab Writers Union, notably in 14th place. The novel was translated into Russian by Vladimir Shagal.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]  Fire is an apocalyptic science fiction/horror novel by Alan Rodgers, published in 1990 as an original paperback from Bantam Books. It was reprinted by specialty publisher Wildside Press in 2000.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]  Birth of Fire is a science fiction novel by American writer Jerry Pournelle. It was first published by Laser Books in 1976, later published by Baen Books. It is related to the books Exiles to Glory and High Justice, and with those two, form a starting point for the CoDominium series.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]  At the time of publication, author Michael Ignatieff was 56 years old and the director of the Carr Center for Human Rights Policy at Harvard University. He had previously written numerous non-fiction books, including Empire Lite: Nation-Building in Bosnia, Kosovo and Afghanistan and The Lesser Evil - Political Ethics in an Age of Terror (for the Gifford Lectures) which were both published in 2003 along with Charlie Johnson in the Flames. Ignatieff had written two previous novels, Asya in 1991 and Scar Tissue in 1993, which was short-listed for the Man Booker Prize.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]  Fire Pattern is a novel by Bob Shaw published in 1984.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]  Fire is a fantasy novel by Kristin Cashore, a companion book to her debut novel, Graceling. It tells the story of a young monster in the shape of a human who is hated because of her difference and supernatural abilities. The novel debuted at number four on The New York Times Best Seller list and won several awards.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP] George R. R. Martin  George Raymond Richard Martin<ref name="middlename" /> (born George Raymond Martin; September 20, 1948),<ref name="confirmation" /> also known as GRRM,<ref name="grrm" /> is an American novelist, screenwriter, television producer and short story writer. He is the author of the series of epic fantasy novels "A Song of Ice and Fire", which were adapted into the Emmy Award-winning HBO series "Game of Thrones" (2011–2019) and its prequel series "House of the Dragon" (2022–present). He also helped create the "Wild Cards" anthology series, and contributed worldbuilding for the 2022 video game "Elden Ring".  In 2005, Lev Grossman of "Time" called Martin "the American Tolkien", and in 2011, he was included on the annual "Time" 100 list of the most influential people in the world. He is a longtime citizen of Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he helped fund Meow Wolf and owns the Jean Cocteau Cinema. The city commemorates March 29 as George R. R. Martin Day.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP] A Song of Ice and Fire  A Song of Ice and Fire is a series of epic fantasy novels by the American novelist and screenwriter George R. R. Martin. He began the first volume of the series, "A Game of Thrones", in 1991, and it was published in 1996. Martin, who initially envisioned the series as a trilogy, has published five out of a planned seven volumes. The fifth and most recent volume of the series, "A Dance with Dragons", was published in 2011, six years after the publication of the preceding book, "A Feast for Crows". He is currently writing the sixth novel, "The Winds of Winter". A seventh novel, "A Dream of Spring", is planned.  "A Song of Ice and Fire" takes place on the fictional continents Westeros and Essos. The point of view of each chapter in the story is a limited perspective of a range of characters growing from nine in the first novel, to 31 characters by the fifth novel. Three main stories interweave: a dynastic war among several families for control of Westeros, the rising threat of the supernatural Others in northernmost Westeros, and the ambition of the deposed king's exiled daughter to assume the Iron Throne.  Martin's inspirations included the Wars of the Roses and the French historical novel series "The Accursed Kings" by Maurice Druon.<ref name="bbc french"/><ref name="jewish legacy"/> An assortment of disparate and subjective points of view confronts the reader, and the success or survival of point-of-view characters is never assured. Within the often morally ambiguous world of "A Song of Ice and Fire", questions concerning loyalty, pride, human sexuality, piety, and the morality of violence frequently arise.  The books have sold 90 million copies worldwide , The fourth and fifth volumes reached the top of the "New York Times" Best Seller lists upon their releases.<ref name=nytimes_vile_hobbits/> Among the many derived works are several prequel novellas, two TV series, a comic book adaptation, and several card, board, and video games.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP]
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP] With Fire and Sword  With Fire and Sword () is a historical novel by the Polish author Henryk Sienkiewicz, published in 1884. It is the first volume of a series known to Poles as The Trilogy, followed by "The Deluge" ("Potop", 1886) and "Fire in the Steppe" (originally published under the Polish title "Pan Wołodyjowski", which translates to "Lord Wolodyjowski"). The novel has been adapted as a film several times, most recently in 1999.  "With Fire and Sword" is a historical fiction novel, set in the 17th century in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth during the Khmelnytsky Uprising. It was initially serialized in several Polish newspapers, chapters appearing in weekly installments. It gained enormous popularity in Poland, and by the turn of the 20th century had become one of the most popular Polish books ever. It became obligatory reading in Polish schools, and has been translated into English and most European languages.  The series was a vehicle for expressing Polish patriotism in a Poland partitioned and deprived of independence.
Who is the author of Fire? [SEP] Fire and Ice (poem)  "Fire and Ice" is a popular poem by Robert Frost that discusses the end of the world, likening the elemental force of fire with the emotion of desire, and ice with hate. Published in December 1920 in "Harper's Magazine" and in 1923 in his Pulitzer Prize-winning book "New Hampshire", "Fire and Ice" is one of Frost's best-known and most anthologized poems.
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]  Untamed City: Carnival of Secrets, formerly published as Carnival of Souls is a young adult fantasy novel by author Melissa Marr. It was published by HarperTeen, a division of HarperCollins, in September 2012. Marr has stated that there will be at least one sequel to the book.
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]  Carnival of Souls is an original novel based on the U.S. television series Buffy the Vampire Slayer.
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP] Ifmagazine.com - Review of this book ; Shadowcat.name - Review of this book
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]  Carnival of Souls (also billed as Wes Craven Presents 'Carnival of Souls') is a 1998 American horror film, a remake of Herk Harvey's 1962 horror film of the same name, although it has very little in common with the story of the original. It stars Bobbie Phillips and comedian Larry Miller, and was directed by Adam Grossman and Ian Kessner. It was executive produced by Wes Craven.
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]   Carnival of Souls is a 1962 American independent horror film produced and directed by Herk Harvey and written by John Clifford from a story by Clifford and Harvey, and starring Candace Hilligoss. Its plot follows Mary Henry, a young woman whose life is disturbed after a car accident. She relocates to a new city, where she finds herself unable to assimilate with the locals, and becomes drawn to the pavilion of an abandoned carnival. Director Harvey also appears in the film as a ghoulish stranger who stalks her throughout. Filmed in Lawrence, Kansas, and Salt Lake City, Carnival of Souls was shot on a
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP] Carnival of Souls  Carnival of Souls is a 1962 American independent horror film produced and directed by Herk Harvey and written by John Clifford The film is set to an organ score by Gene Moore.  Filmed in Lawrence, Kansas, and Salt Lake City, "Carnival of Souls" was shot on a budget of $33,000, and Harvey employed various guerrilla filmmaking techniques to finish the production. It was Harvey's only feature film, and did not gain widespread attention when originally released as a double feature with the now mostly forgotten "The Devil's Messenger" in 1962.  Since the 1980s, the film has been noted by critics and film scholars for its cinematography and foreboding atmosphere. The film has a large cult following and is occasionally screened at film and Halloween festivals. The film's plot resembles that of Ambrose Bierce's 1890 story "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge".
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP] Carnival of Souls (Buffy novel)  Carnival of Souls is an original novel based on the U.S. television series "Buffy the Vampire Slayer".
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP] Untamed City: Carnival of Secrets  Untamed City: Carnival of Secrets, formerly published as "Carnival of Souls" is a young adult fantasy novel by author Melissa Marr. It was published by HarperTeen, a division of HarperCollins, in September 2012. Marr has stated that there will be at least one sequel to the book.
Who is the author of Carnival of Souls? [SEP]
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP]  Catherine Mann is an American author of romance fiction. She has published numerous books with Berkley, Sourcebooks, and Harlequin Desire. In 2003 Mann won the "Best Contemporary" RITA Award for Taking Cover. She has also won a Romantic Times Reviewer's Choice Award, a Booksellers' Best Award, and celebrated six RITA Award finals. Mann holds a master's degree in Theater from UNC-Greensboro and a bachelor's degree in Fine Arts from the College of Charleston.
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP]  Mann has written for Fortune, The New York Times, Smithsonian, Technology Review, Vanity Fair, and The Washington Post. In 2005 he wrote 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, followed in 2011 by 1493: Uncovering the New World Columbus Created. He served as a judge for the PEN/E. O. Wilson Literary Science Writing Award in 2012. He is a three-time National Magazine Award finalist and a recipient of writing awards from the American Bar Association, the American Institute of Physics, the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, and the Lannan Foundation. He lives in Amherst, Massachusetts with his wife and children. In 2018, Mann published The Wizard and the Prophet, which details two competing theories about the future of agriculture, population, and the environment. The titular "wizard" Mann refers to is Norman Borlaug, the Nobel Peace Prize winner credited with developing the Green Revolution and saving one billion people from starvation. Mann refers to William Vogt, an early proponent of population control, as the "prophet".
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP]  Nicholas R. Mann (born 1952) is the author of books on geomancy, mythology, the Celtic tradition, sacred geometry and, most recently, archaeoastronomy. Glastonbury, England, Avebury, England, Sedona, Arizona (USA) and Washington, DC (USA) are all locations which feature in his work. His book Druid Magic: The Practice of Celtic Wisdom, co-written with Maya Sutton, PhD, has been described by the British Druid Order as"One of the best practical guides available..." He is also an illustrator, producing the images for the Silver Branch Cards, a Celtic divination deck of his own design. He was born in Sussex, England. He lives in Somerset, England with his partner Philippa Glasson, with whom he co-authored The Star Temple of Avalon: Glastonbury's Ancient Observatory Revealed.
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP]  and writing some plays and children's literature, in 2013 he published his first novel since 1996, The Disestablishment of Paradise. This is about the corruption by mankind of a pristine Earth-like planet called Paradise and subsequent banishment. In the 2017 New Year Honours, Mann was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit, for services to literature and drama. Mann divides his time between his home in Brooklyn, Wellington and a converted barn in the small town of Choussy in France's Loire Valley. He is now working on a new novel The Headman (a "darkly comic novel"), an anthology of short stories, and a work on theatre production.
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP]  After studying at Kingston University, Mann began her career in publishing working for trade publishers Macmillan and Transworld, before moving on to work with two international independent publishers, Hinkler and Phidal Publishing. She then spent time in the toy industry, before returning to publishing to work for Bonnier Publishing, which rebranded as Bonnier Books UK in 2018. During her time at Bonnier Books UK, she co-founded adult non-fiction imprint Blink Publishing. In 2014, the imprint became the first UK publisher to collaborate with a vlogger when it signed Alfie Deyes. Under Mann, Blink published The Pointless Book, which was a 2014 bestseller. In 2015 and 2016, Mann was named on The Booksellers list of the 100 most influential people in publishing. She was also on the awards list of the top 10 most influential
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP] Nils Johan Rud  Nils Johan Rud (24 July 1908 – 7 June 1993) was a Norwegian novelist, writer of short stories, children's writer, and a magazine editor. He is particularly known for his long-term period as editor of the magazine "Arbeidermagasinet" / "Magasinet For Alle".
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP] Arne Garborg  Arne Garborg (born Aadne Eivindsson Garborg) (25 January 1851 – 14 January 1924) was a Norwegian writer.  Garborg championed the use of Landsmål (now known as Nynorsk, or New Norwegian), as a literary language; he translated the Odyssey into it. He founded the weekly "Fedraheimen" in 1877, in which he urged reforms in many spheres including political, social, religious, agrarian, and linguistic. He was married to Hulda Garborg.   He was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature six times.
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP] Horace  Quintus Horatius Flaccus (; 8 December 65 – 27 November 8 BC), known in the English-speaking world as Horace (), was the leading Roman lyric poet during the time of Augustus (also known as Octavian). The rhetorician Quintilian regarded his "Odes" as just about the only Latin lyrics worth reading: "He can be lofty sometimes, yet he is also full of charm and grace, versatile in his figures, and felicitously daring in his choice of words."  Horace also crafted elegant hexameter verses ("Satires" and "Epistles") and caustic iambic poetry ("Epodes"). The hexameters are amusing yet serious works, friendly in tone, leading the ancient satirist Persius to comment: "as his friend laughs, Horace slyly puts his finger on his every fault; once let in, he plays about the heartstrings".  His career coincided with Rome's momentous change from a republic to an empire. An officer in the republican army defeated at the Battle of Philippi in 42 BC, he was befriended by Octavian's right-hand man in civil affairs, Maecenas, and became a spokesman for the new regime. For some commentators, his association with the regime was a delicate balance in which he maintained a strong measure of independence (he was "a master of the graceful sidestep") but for others he was, in John Dryden's phrase, "a well-mannered court slave".
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP] The Duellists  The Duellists is a 1977 British historical drama film and the feature film directorial debut of Ridley Scott. It won the Best Debut Film award at the 1977 Cannes Film Festival. The basis of the screenplay is the Joseph Conrad short story "The Duel" (titled "Point of Honor" in the United States) published in "A Set of Six".  A novelization of the film by Gordon Williams, which included historical contexts and slightly expanded the plot, was published by Fontana Books in Great Britain in 1977 and by Pocket Books () in the United States in 1978.
Who is the author of Mannfolk? [SEP] Aimee Mann  Aimee Elizabeth Mann (born September 8, 1960) is an American singer-songwriter. Over the course of four decades, she has released more than a dozen albums as a solo artist and with other musicians. She is noted for her sardonic and literate lyrics about dark subjects. Her work with the producer Jon Brion in the 1990s was influential on American alternative music.  Mann was born in Richmond, Virginia, and studied at Berklee College of Music in Boston, Massachusetts. In the 1980s, after playing with the Young Snakes and Ministry, she co-founded the new wave band 'Til Tuesday and wrote their top-ten single "Voices Carry" (1985). 'Til Tuesday released three albums and disbanded in 1990 when Mann left to pursue a solo career.  Mann released her first solo album, "Whatever", in 1993, followed by "I'm With Stupid" in 1995. They received positive reviews but low sales, and placed Mann in conflict with her record company, Geffen. Mann achieved wider recognition when she recorded the soundtrack for the Paul Thomas Anderson film "Magnolia" (1999), earning nominations for the Academy Award for Best Original Song and the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal. After Geffen refused to release her third album, "Bachelor No. 2", Mann self-released it under her own label, SuperEgo Records, in 2000. It received strong sales and critical acclaim, establishing Mann as a career artist who could work outside of the major label system.  Mann has released seven albums since. In 2014, she released an album with Ted Leo as the Both. She has appeared in films and television series including "The Big Lebowski", "Steven Universe," "The West Wing" and "Portlandia". Her awards include two Grammy Awards, including Best Folk Album for "Mental Illness" (2017), and she was named one of the ten greatest living songwriters by NPR in 2006.
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP]  Rage (written as Getting It On; the title was changed before publication) is a psychological thriller novel by American writer Stephen King, the first he published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman. It was first published in 1977 and then was collected in 1985 in the hardcover omnibus The Bachman Books. The novel describes a school shooting, and has been associated with actual high school shooting incidents in the 1980s and 1990s. In response King allowed the novel to fall out of print, and in 2013 he published a non-fiction, anti-firearms violence essay titled "Guns".
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP]  Writer of the Purple Rage is a collection of short works by American author Joe R. Lansdale, published in 1994. It was nominated for a Bram Stoker Award in the "Fiction Collection" category. The title is a play on the Philip José Farmer novella "Riders of the Purple Wage", and before that, the Zane Grey novel Riders of the Purple Sage.
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP]  Rage is a 1987 novel by Wilbur Smith set in the Union of South Africa, immediately following World War II. It starts in 1952 and goes until the late 1960s, touching on the country's declaration of a republic and the subsequent Sharpeville Massacre. The plot centers around Shasa Courtney and black resistance leader Moses Gama. Smith described it at the time as "the most onerous book I have ever written... and also the biggest book" because of its subject matter. At the time of its publication it was the longest South African novel with the paperback having 626 pages. The previous record holder had been Madge Swindells' 1983 novel Summer Harvest, which had 26 fewer pages.
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP]  All The Rage is the fourth volume in a series of Repairman Jack books written by American author F. Paul Wilson. The book was first published by Gauntlet Press in a signed limited first edition (July 2000) then later as a trade hardcover from Forge (November 2000) and as a mass market paperback from Forge (September 2000). Reviewer Charles de Lint recommended All the Rage as "a hardboiled mystery, with a dash of the supernatural and a good helping of suspense and action."
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP]  that the survival of humankind does not necessarily mean the survival of humanity. The Earth has been devastated by a collision with an asteroid, with a tiny fraction of the population surviving in life-sustaining Arks buried deep below its surface. Those who survive emerge to find a wasteland controlled by a global military dictatorship called the Authority. But a rescued scientist learns that the Authority has lied to her and the other survivors about how this new world came to be. That same month, Bethesda announced that they would team up with Del Rey Books to create a novel based on Rage. The novel was written by Matthew J. Costello, also responsible for the video game. It was released on August 30, 2011.
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP] Rage (King novel)  Rage (written as Getting It On; the title was changed before publication) is a psychological thriller novel by American writer Stephen King, the first he published under the pseudonym Richard Bachman. It was first published in 1977 and then, it was collected in 1985 in the hardcover omnibus "The Bachman Books". The novel describes a school shooting, and has been associated with actual high school shooting incidents in the 1980s and 1990s. In response, King allowed the novel to fall out of print, and in 2013, he published a non-fiction, anti-firearms violence essay titled "Guns".
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP] Rage (Woodward book)  Rage is a book by the American journalist Bob Woodward about the presidency of Donald Trump, published on September 15, 2020, by Simon & Schuster. It is a largely critical book, focusing on his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic, his strained relationship with military brass and high-level officials such as Jim Mattis and Dan Coats, his handling of racial unrest, and his relationships with the leaders of Russia and North Korea.  As with Woodward's 2018 "," the title of the book is derived from a conversation that Woodward had with Trump in March 2016. Woodward contended that "a lot of angst and rage and distress" was present in the Republican Party to which Trump replied that "I bring rage out. I do bring rage out. I always have... I don't know if that's an asset or a liability, but whatever it is, I do. I also bring great unity out, ultimately. I've had many occasions like this, where people have hated me more than any human being they've ever met. And after it's all over, they end up being my friends. And I see that happening here".<ref name=GuardAug20/>
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP] Writer of the Purple Rage  Writer of the Purple Rage is a collection of short works by American author Joe R. Lansdale, published in 1994. It was nominated for a Bram Stoker Award in the "Fiction Collection" category. The title is a play on the Philip José Farmer novella "Riders of the Purple Wage", and before that, the Zane Grey novel "Riders of the Purple Sage".
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP] White Rage  White Rage: The Unspoken Truth of Our Racial Divide is a 2016 nonfiction book by Emory University Professor Carol Anderson, who was contracted to write the book after reactions to an op-ed that she had written for "The Washington Post" in 2014.
Who is the author of Rage? [SEP] Rage of Angels  Rage of Angels is a novel by Sidney Sheldon published in 1980. The novel revolves around young attorney Jennifer Parker; as she rises as a successful lawyer, she gets into a series of ongoings that lead to intrigue with the mob and a rival attorney that promises to break her life's dreams. As the story progresses, the protagonist is romantically torn between a famous politician, who helps her rise again, and the Mafia boss who framed her. The boss swears to destroy her after he finds out about her affair with the politician and the child resulting from the affair.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP]  The Kid was first published by Dutton in 1999 as a hardcover edition. Plume publishing company released an e-book in 1999. A subsequent edition was published in 2000 in London by Fusion, and in the United States by Penguin Putnam Inc. A paperback edition was published by Plume in 2000. The book was published in Italian in 2002 by Tascabili Degli Editori.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP]  The Kid received a PEN Center USA West Award. It was recognized with the award in 2000, in the category of Excellence in Creative Nonfiction. Writing in the journal Feminist Economics, June Lapidus called The Kid a "warm, funny, and insightful book". Author Andrew R. Gottlieb wrote in the book Sons Talk About Their Gay Fathers: Life Curves, "Fast and funny, incisive and insightful, Dan Savage's (1999) The Kid is an exploration of one gay man's experience and one gay couple's experience confronting the open adoption bureaucracy. With razor-sharp scrutiny, Savage spares no one, including himself." A review for The News Tribune by Linda Dahlstrom commented that the book was quite moving, "In fact, that's one of
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP]  The Kid: What Happened After My Boyfriend and I Decided to Go Get Pregnant is a non-fiction book by Dan Savage. It was first published by Dutton in 1999. The book recounts the author's experiences during the process of adopting a child with his partner, Terry. Savage details for the reader his emotional states at various times during the adoption period and how it affected his life. The Kid is the recipient of a PEN West Award. Robin Williams production company purchased the options to develop the book for television in 2000. The book was adapted into a musical in 2010 by librettist Michael Zam, with music composed by Andy Monroe, and lyrics by Jack Lechner. Christopher Sieber starred in the lead role as Dan. It was performed Off-Broadway in Theatre Row, New York City, and directed by Scott Elliott. The play was the recipient of the BMI Foundation Jerry Bock Award for Excellence in Musical Theatre in 2009.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP]  as "Diane Sawyer" during the segment. Couric is the author of two children's books and a non-fiction collection of essays. Her children's books The Brand New Kid (2000) and The Blue Ribbon Day (2004) were illustrated by Marjorie Priceman and published by Doubleday. The Brand New Kid topped the New York Times best seller list for children's picture books, and was adapted into a 2006 musical by Melanie Marnich and Michael Friedman. Couric's third book, The Best Advice I Ever Got: Lessons from Extraordinary Lives, was published by Random House in 2011. The book is a collection of essays compiled over the past year by Couric; contributors include
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP]  The Kid delves into the machinations involved in the process of adopting an infant boy, through the experiences of the author and his boyfriend. Savage describes the psychological roller-coaster experience of deciding to go through with the process, such as worrying about which items to purchase to support raising an infant, moments where he was nervous about how it would impact his sex life, and what his straight and gay friends would think. Savage comments that an LGBT activist thought those who adopt children were ideal candidates if they were "men in their forties, together at least eight years, monogamous, professional, irreproachable, and unassailable." He expresses "a complex sense of moral obligation" in writing the narrative. Terry, Savage's boyfriend at the time for two years, initially helped him look into the option of seeking out lesbian
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP] Lee Child  James Dover Grant (born 29 October 1954), primarily known by his pen name Lee Child, is a British author who writes thriller novels, and is best known for his "Jack Reacher" novel series. The books follow the adventures of a former American military policeman, Jack Reacher, who wanders the United States. His first novel, "Killing Floor" (1997), won both the Anthony Award and the Barry Award for Best First Novel.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP] Diary of a Wimpy Kid  Diary of a Wimpy Kid is an American children's book series and media franchise created by author and cartoonist Jeff Kinney. The series follows Greg Heffley, a middle-schooler who illustrates his daily life in a diary (although he constantly tells the audience that it is a journal).  Kinney spent 8 years working on the book before showing it to a publisher. In 2004, FunBrain and Kinney released an online version of "Diary of a Wimpy Kid". The website made daily entries from September 2004 to June 2005. and received immediate success. In April 2009, "Time" magazine named Kinney in the "Time" 100 most influential people.  Seventeen books in the series have been released as of 2022, an activity book has also been released. A spin-off series, centering on the character Rowley Jefferson, has three installments as of 2021. The first, , and installments have been adapted into films by 20th Century Fox;<ref name="Diary"/> two books have been released chronicling the production of the films.  Since the release of the online version, most of the books have garnered positive reviews and commercial success. As of 2022, more than 275 million copies have been sold globally, making it the sixth best-selling book series of all time.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP] Jeff Kinney  Jeffrey Patrick Kinney (born February 19, 1971) is an American author and cartoonist, best known for the children's book series "Diary of a Wimpy Kid". He also created the child-oriented website "Poptropica".
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP] List of books written by children or teenagers  This is a list of notable books by young authors and of books written by notable writers in their early years. These books were written, or substantially completed, before the author's twentieth birthday.
Who is the author of Kid? [SEP] Dav Pilkey  David "Dav" Murray Pilkey Jr. (; born March 4, 1966) is an American cartoonist, author, and illustrator of children's literature. He is best known as the author and illustrator of the children's book series, "Captain Underpants", and the children's graphic novel series, "Dog Man".
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP]  Bukan Pasar Malam (English title: It's Not an All Night Fair) is an Indonesian novel that published in 1951 by Balai Pustaka. This novel was written by Pramoedya Ananta Toer, the author of This Earth of Mankind. This novel has been published in six languages.
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP]  The authors subsequently published the book through print on demand publisher Lulu under the pseudonym "Travis Tea" with all profits going to the Science Fiction and Fantasy Writers of America Emergency Medical Fund. Teresa Nielsen Hayden's review said, "The world is full of bad books written by amateurs. But why settle for the merely regrettable? Atlanta Nights is a bad book written by experts."
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] Welcome to the Arrow-Catcher Fair (1983) – short stories ; The All-Girl Football Team (1986) – short stories ; Music of the Swamp (1991) – novel/short story cycle ; Wolf Whistle (1993) – novel ; The Sharpshooter Blues (1995) – novel ; Sugar Among the Freaks: Selected Stories (1996) – short stories (nothing new all reprints from 1st 2 books) ; Lightning Song (1997) – novel ; Boy With Loaded Gun (2000) – memoir ; WOULD YOU SHUT UP, PLEASE (2014) - posthumous single short story e-book
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] So Long at the Fair, 2002 ; Too Close to the Sun, 2002 ; Wait for the Dawn, 2004 ; Saddle the Wind, 2004 ; No Wings to Fly, 2006
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP]  Syrtash contributed to a number of titles published by Hundreds of Heads Books and served as the Special Editor of How to Survive the Real World (2006) and How to Survive Your In-Laws. She is the author of He's Just Not Your Type (And That's a Good Thing) (Rodale Books, 2010) and Cheat On Your Husband (With Your Husband) (Rodale Books, 2011). She is the co-author of It's Okay to Sleep with Him on the First Date (Harlequin Non-Fiction, July 2013).
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] It's Not an All Night Fair  Bukan Pasar Malam (English title: It's Not an All Night Fair) is an Indonesian novel that published in 1951 by Balai Pustaka. This novel was written by Pramoedya Ananta Toer, the author of "This Earth of Mankind." This novel has been published in six languages.
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] She Moved Through the Fair  "She Moved Through the Fair", also called "She Moves Through the Fair", is a traditional Irish folk song, which exists in a number of versions and has been recorded many times. The narrator sees his lover move away from him through the fair, after telling him that since her family will approve, "it will not be long, love, till our wedding day". She returns as a ghost at night, and repeats the words "it will not be long, love, till our wedding day", intimating her own tragic death and the couple's potential reunion in the afterlife.
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] My Fair Lady  My Fair Lady is a musical based on George Bernard Shaw's 1913 play "Pygmalion", with a book and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner and music by Frederick Loewe. The story concerns Eliza Doolittle, a Cockney flower girl who takes speech lessons from professor Henry Higgins, a phonetician, so that she may pass as a lady. Despite his cynical nature and difficulty understanding women, Higgins grows attached to her.  The musical's 1956 Broadway production was a notable critical and popular success, winning six Tony Awards, including Best Musical. It set a record for the longest run of any musical on Broadway up to that time and was followed by a hit London production. Rex Harrison and Julie Andrews starred in both productions. Many revivals have followed, and the 1964 film version won the Academy Award for Best Picture.
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] Not Fair  "Not Fair" is a song by British recording artist Lily Allen from her second studio album, "It's Not Me, It's You" (2009). Written by Allen and Greg Kurstin, the song was released as the second single from the album on 20 March 2009 by Regal Recordings. The song incorporates country music as the lyrics depict sexual frustration. Contemporary critics did not positively receive the song and its theme, some calling it a "pseudo-country track" and considering it a strange musical composition. The single peaked in the top 20 of the charts of some European countries and Australia, while scoring Allen's second consecutive top-five hit on both the UK Singles Chart and the Dutch Top 40 (since in the latter "Fuck You" was a commercial success before "Not Fair").  The accompanying music video portrayed a western country theme, with Allen dancing next to a microphone while backing singers are dressed as cowgirls, accompanied by cattle and poultry. The video was shot the same day of the release of the single. It was performed live on different occasions, including Allen's 2009 concert tour.  It was named at number 8 in the Triple J Hottest 100, 2009.
Who is the author of It's Not an All Night Fair? [SEP] I Could Have Danced All Night  "I Could Have Danced All Night" is a song from the musical "My Fair Lady", with music written by Frederick Loewe and lyrics by Alan Jay Lerner, published in 1956. The song is sung by the musical's heroine, Eliza Doolittle, expressing her exhilaration and excitement after an impromptu dance with her tutor, Henry Higgins - in the small hours of the morning. In a counterpoint during the second of 3 rounds, two maids and the housekeeper, Mrs. Pearce, urge Eliza to go to bed, but she ignores them.  It was first performed by Julie Andrews in the original Broadway production of "My Fair Lady". In 2004, Nixon's version finished at #17 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP]  Originally published by Jonathan Cape and Thomas Nelson & Sons (Canada), the most recent edition of the novel was published by Toronto's Cormorant Books in 2004.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP]  The Discovery of Heaven (De ontdekking van de hemel) is a 1992 novel by Dutch writer Harry Mulisch. It is considered Mulisch's masterpiece and was voted best book in the Dutch language in a 2007 poll among the readers of NRC Handelsblad. A 2001 film adaptation by director Jeroen Krabbé features Stephen Fry and Flora Montgomery in the leading roles.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP]  Stanphill was the author of the book This Side of Heaven.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP]  Kawakami, on her personal website, cited Thus Spoke Zarathustra as having given her ideas for writing this book.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP]  Heaven and Earth is a sequel to a previous work by Plimer called A Short History of Planet Earth. Published in 2001, A Short History was based on a decade's worth of radio broadcasts by Plimer aimed mainly at rural Australians. It became a bestseller and won a Eureka Prize in 2002. However, Plimer was unable to find any major publisher willing to publish his follow-up book. He attributed this to there being "a lot of fear out there. No one wants to go against the popular paradigm." Plimer turned to Connor Court Publishing. The company has a history of publishing books on "culture, justice and religion", including many books on Christianity and Catholicism in particular. It
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP] Heaven Is for Real  Heaven is for Real: A Little Boy's Astounding Story of His Trip to Heaven and Back is a 2010 "New York Times" best-selling Christian book written by Todd Burpo and Lynn Vincent and published by Thomas Nelson Publishers. The book documents the report of a near-death experience by Burpo's three-year-old son Colton.  By April 2012, more than one million ebooks had been sold, and more than 10 million copies had been sold by 2014. A feature film based on the book was released on April 16, 2014, earning $101 million at the box office.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP] Heaven Official's Blessing  Heaven Official's Blessing (Chinese: 天官赐福, pinyin: "Tiān Guān Cì Fú") is a Chinese novel series written by Mo Xiang Tong Xiu (Chinese: 墨香铜臭). A donghua series adaptation was first released on Bilibili and Funimation on 31 October 2020 and received a positive review and recommendation by CBR. The novel was first published in 2017 on , a popular Chinese website for publishing and serializing online fiction. It consists of 244 chapters and an additional five stories in eight chapters that take place post-canon. The last novel number 6, was published on 7 March 2022. There also exists a manhua based on the novel, illustrated by STARember and published by Bilibili, with 83 chapters as of 13 October 2022. It has been collected into 2 published volumes as of 18 July 2022.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP] Eben Alexander (author)  Eben Alexander III (born December 11, 1953) is an American neurosurgeon and author. His book "" (2012) describes his near-death experience that happened in 2008 under medically-induced coma when treated for meningitis. He asserts that the coma resulted in brain death, that consciousness is not only a product of the brain and that this permits access to an afterlife. Alexander has also authored follow-up books.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP] Proof of Heaven  Proof of Heaven: A Neurosurgeon's Journey into the Afterlife is a 2012 New York Times bestselling nonfiction book and autobiographical book written by the American neurosurgeon Eben Alexander and published by Simon & Schuster. The book describes a near-death experience Alexander had while suffering from what should have been a fatal case of acute, gram-negative Escherichia coli bacterial meningitis, while on a ventilator and in a coma. Alexander describes how the experience changed his perceptions of life and the afterlife. The book was a commercial success but also was the subject of scientific criticism in relation to misconceptions about neurology, like relating to medically induced coma as brain death.
Who is the author of Heaven? [SEP] Heaven (Andrews novel)  Heaven is the first book in the Casteel series by author V. C. Andrews. It is also the first name of the main character.
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP]  Conan the Valiant is a fantasy novel by American writer Roland Green, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in trade paperback by Tor Books in October 1988; a regular paperback edition followed from the same publisher in August 1989, and was reprinted in July 2000.
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP]  Conan the Triumphant is a fantasy novel by American writer Robert Jordan, featuring Robert E. Howard's  sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in trade paperback by Tor Books in October 1983, and was reprinted in 1991; a regular paperback edition followed from the same publisher in April 1985, and was reprinted in January 1987, May 1991 and February 2011. The first British edition was published in paperback by Sphere Books in November 1985; a later British edition was published in paperback by Legend Books in April 1997. The novel was later gathered together with Conan the Magnificent and Conan the Destroyer into the hardcover omnibus collection The Conan Chronicles II (Legend, April 1997), and was later gathered together with Conan the Magnificent and Conan the Victorious into the hardcover omnibus collection The Further Chronicles of Conan (Tor Books, October 1999).
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP]  Conan the Magnificent is a fantasy novel by American writer Robert Jordan, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Tor Books in May 1984, and was reprinted in December 1991; a trade paperback edition followed from the same publisher in 1991. The first British edition was published in paperback by Sphere Books in July 1986 and reprinted in September 1989; a later British edition was published in paperback by Legend Books in February 1997. The novel was later gathered together with Conan the Triumphant and Conan the Destroyer into the hardcover omnibus collection The Conan Chronicles II (Legend, April 1997), and was later gathered together with Conan the Triumphant and Conan the Victorious into the hardcover omnibus collection The Further Chronicles of Conan (Tor Books, October 1999).
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP]  Writing of this novel, Don D'Ammassa noted that "Green spends a lot more time on background detail than did some of Conan's chroniclers."
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP]  Conan the Victorious is a fantasy novel by American writer Robert Jordan, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in trade paperback by Tor Books in November 1984; a regular paperback edition followed from the same publisher in December 1985, and was reprinted in March 1991 and August 2010. The first British edition was published in paperback by Sphere Books in April 1987. The novel was later gathered together with Conan the Magnificent and Conan the Triumphant into the hardcover omnibus collection The Further Chronicles of Conan (Tor Books, October 1999).
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP] Conan the Valiant  Conan the Valiant is a fantasy novel by American writer Roland Green, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in trade paperback by Tor Books in October 1988; a regular paperback edition followed from the same publisher in August 1989, and was reprinted in July 2000.
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP] Prince Valiant  Prince Valiant in the Days of King Arthur, often simply called Prince Valiant, is an American comic strip created by Hal Foster in 1937. It is an epic adventure that has told a continuous story during its entire history, and the full stretch of that story now totals more than 4000 Sunday strips. The strip appears weekly in more than 300 American newspapers, according to its distributor, King Features Syndicate.  As the Duke of Windsor, Edward VIII called "Prince Valiant" the "greatest contribution to English literature in the past hundred years". Generally regarded by comics historians as one of the most impressive visual creations ever syndicated, the strip is noted for its realistically rendered panoramas and the intelligent, sometimes humorous, narrative. The format does not employ word balloons. Instead, the story is narrated in captions positioned at the bottom or sides of panels. Events depicted are taken from various time periods, from the late Roman Empire to the High Middle Ages, with a few brief scenes from modern times (commenting on the "manuscript").  While drawing the "Tarzan" comic strip, Foster wanted to do his own original newspaper feature, and he began work on a strip he called Derek, Son of Thane, later changing the title to Prince Arn. King Features manager Joseph Connelly eventually renamed it "Prince Valiant". In 1936, after extensive research, Foster pitched his concept to William Randolph Hearst, who had long wanted to distribute a strip by Foster. Hearst was so impressed that he gave Foster ownership of the strip.<ref name=syracuse/>  "Prince Valiant" began in full-color tabloid sections on Saturday February 13, 1937. The first full page was strip #16, which appeared in the Sunday "New Orleans Times Picayune". The internal dating changed from Saturday to Sunday with strip #66 (May 15, 1938). The full-page strip continued until 1971, when strip #1788 was not offered in full-page format—it was the last strip Foster drew. The strip continues today by other artists in a half-page format.<ref name=companion/>
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP] Conan (books)  The Conan books are sword and sorcery fantasies featuring the character of Conan the Cimmerian originally created by Robert E. Howard. Written by numerous authors and issued by numerous publishers, they include both novels and short stories, the latter assembled in various combinations over the years by the several publishers. The character has proven durably popular, resulting in Conan stories being produced after Howard's death by such later writers as Poul Anderson, Leonard Carpenter, Lin Carter, L. Sprague de Camp, Roland J. Green, John C. Hocking, Robert Jordan, Sean A. Moore, Björn Nyberg, Andrew J. Offutt, Steve Perry, John Maddox Roberts, Harry Turtledove, and Karl Edward Wagner. Some of these writers finished incomplete Conan manuscripts by Howard, or rewrote Howard stories which originally featured different characters. Most post-Howard Conan stories, however, are completely original works. In total, more than fifty novels and dozens of short stories featuring the Conan character have been written by authors other than Howard. This article describes and discusses notable book editions of the Conan stories.
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP] Barry Windsor-Smith  Barry Windsor-Smith (born Barry Smith, 25 May 1949) is a British comic book illustrator and painter whose best known work has been produced in the United States. He attained note working on Marvel Comics' "Conan the Barbarian" from 1970 to 1973, and for his work on the character Wolverine, particularly the 1991 "Weapon X" story arc. His other noted Marvel work included a 1984 "Thing" story in "Marvel Fanfare", the "Lifedeath" and "Lifedeath II" stories with writer Chris Claremont that focused on the de-powered Storm in "The Uncanny X-Men", as well as the 1984 "Machine Man" limited series with Herb Trimpe and Tom DeFalco.   After leaving Marvel, Windsor-Smith became the creative director and lead artist at Valiant Comics, where he illustrated the company's revival of the 1960s Gold Key Comics character Solar, and created the original characters Archer and Armstrong. He was also the chief designer of the "Unity" crossover storyline. After leaving Valiant in 1993, Windsor-Smith did work through a number of publishers, including co-creating the vampiric character Rune with Chris Ulm, which was published as part of Malibu Comics' Ultraverse. Rune's adventures included a crossover with Conan that Windsor-Smith wrote and illustrated. He also provided art for the WildStorm Productions/Image Comics storyline "Wildstorm Rising", though he later came to regret that work. He subsequently created an oversized anthology series, "" through Dark Horse Comics, though it was cancelled after nine issues.   Windsor-Smith released his subsequent work through Fantagraphics, including the "Storyteller" spin-off "Adastra in Africa", which had originally been conceived as a "Lifedeath III" story for Storm; two volumes of the retrospective hardcover art book "Opus"; and "Monsters", a 360-page hardcover published in 2021 that had originally been conceived in the mid-1980s as a "Hulk" story.
Who is the author of Conan the Valiant? [SEP] Conan and the Spider God  Conan and the Spider God is a fantasy novel by American writer L. Sprague de Camp featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Bantam Books in December 1980; later paperback editions were issued by Ace Books (April 1989, reprinted August 1991) and Tor Books (June 2003). The first hardcover edition was issued by Robert Hale in 1984, and the second by Tor Books in 2002. It was later gathered together with "Conan the Swordsman" and "Conan the Liberator" into the omnibus trade paperback collection "Sagas of Conan" (Tor Books, 2004).<ref name="ISFDb"/>  "Conan and the Spider God" is the only fictional Conan work credited solely to de Camp; his other Conan stories being collaborations with Howard (posthumously), Lin Carter, and Björn Nyberg.<ref name="Laughlin"/> De Camp also wrote numerous non-fiction pieces about Conan and Howard, both alone and with others.
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]  Darkvision is a fantasy novel by Bruce Cordell, set in the world of the Forgotten Realms, and based on the Dungeons & Dragons role-playing game. It is the third novel in "The Wizards" series. It was published in paperback in September 2006.
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]  Pat Ferrara of mania.com comments: "Another stand-alone novel of The Wizards series, Darkvision hits the scene under the experienced wing of Forgotten Realms guru Bruce R. Cordell."
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]  Haunted by nightmares and driven by desire, Ususi ventured alone into the outside world her people abandoned centuries ago, and tracks down the relics that brought both prosperity and doom to her people.
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]  Dark Visions is a horror fiction compilation, with three short stories by Stephen King, three by Dan Simmons and a novella by George R. R. Martin. It was published by Orion on August 10, 1989. The collection was first published, with the same seven stories, under the title Night Visions 5, by Dark Harvest on July 1, 1988. The book was also issued under the titles Dark Love and The Skin Trade. Two of the stories by King, "Sneakers" and "Dedication", were later included in his 1993 anthology Nightmares & Dreamscapes. All three stories by Simmons were later included in his 1990 collection Prayers to Broken Stones. Martin's The Skin Trade was later included in Quartet: Four Tales from the Crossroads (2001) and Dreamsongs: A RRetrospective (2003).
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]  The Dark Design (1977) is a science fiction novel by American writer Philip José Farmer, the third in the series of Riverworld books. The title is derived from lines in Sir Richard Francis Burton's poem The Kasîdah of Hâjî Abdû El-Yezdî:
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP] A Visit from St. Nicholas  A Visit from St. Nicholas, more commonly known as The Night Before Christmas and Twas the Night Before Christmas from its first line, is a poem first published anonymously under the title Account of a Visit from St. Nicholas in 1823 and later attributed to Clement Clarke Moore, who claimed authorship in 1837.  The poem has been called "arguably the best-known verses ever written by an American" and is largely responsible for some of the conceptions of Santa Claus from the mid-nineteenth century to today. It has had a massive effect on the history of Christmas gift-giving. Before the poem gained wide popularity, American ideas had varied considerably about Saint Nicholas and other Christmastide visitors. "A Visit from St. Nicholas" eventually was set to music and has been recorded by many artists.
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP] Night (memoir)  Night is a 1960 memoir by Elie Wiesel based on his Holocaust experiences with his father in the Nazi German concentration camps at Auschwitz and Buchenwald in 1944–1945, toward the end of the Second World War in Europe. In just over 100 pages of sparse and fragmented narrative, Wiesel writes about the death of God and his own increasing disgust with humanity, reflected in the inversion of the parent–child relationship as his father deteriorates to a helpless state and Wiesel becomes his resentful, teenage caregiver. "If only I could get rid of this dead weight ... Immediately I felt ashamed of myself, ashamed forever." In "Night" everything is inverted, every value destroyed. "Here there are no fathers, no brothers, no friends", a kapo tells him. "Everyone lives and dies for himself alone."  Wiesel was 16 when Buchenwald was liberated by the United States Army in April 1945, too late for his father, who died after a beating while Wiesel lay silently on the bunk above for fear of being beaten too. He moved to Paris after the war and in 1954 completed an 862-page manuscript in Yiddish about his experiences, published in Argentina as the 245-page "Un di velt hot geshvign" ("And the World Remained Silent"). The novelist François Mauriac helped him find a French publisher. Les Éditions de Minuit published 178 pages as "La Nuit" in 1958, and in 1960 Hill & Wang in New York published a 116-page translation as "Night".  Translated into 30 languages, the book ranks as one of the bedrocks of . It remains unclear how much of "Night" is memoir. Wiesel called it his deposition, but scholars have had difficulty approaching it as an unvarnished account. The literary critic Ruth Franklin writes that the pruning of the text from Yiddish to French transformed an angry historical account into a work of art.<ref name=academy/>  "Night" is the first in a trilogy—"Night", "Dawn", "Day"—marking Wiesel's transition during and after the Holocaust from darkness to light, according to the Jewish tradition of beginning a new day at nightfall. "In "Night"," he said, "I wanted to show the end, the finality of the event. Everything came to an end—man, history, literature, religion, God. There was nothing left. And yet we begin again with night."
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP]
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP] The Night Circus  The Night Circus is a 2011 fantasy novel by Erin Morgenstern. It was originally written for the annual writing competition National Novel Writing Month (NaNoWriMo) over the span of three competitions. The novel has a nonlinear narrative written from multiple viewpoints.
Who is the author of Darkvision? [SEP] Night Watch (Lukyanenko novel)  Night Watch () is the first fantasy novel by the Russian author Sergei Lukyanenko to feature his fictional world of the Others. Lukyanenko wrote the story in 1998 and the book was first published in Russia by AST in 1998. The story revolves around a confrontation between two opposing supernatural groups (known as "Others"): the Night Watch, an organization dedicated to policing the actions of the Dark Others—and the Day Watch, which polices the actions of the Light Others.  The novel is first in a cycle that continues with "Day Watch", "Twilight Watch (also known as Dusk Watch)", "Final Watch", "New Watch", and "Sixth Watch". The first story of the novel, "Destiny", was made into a successful Russian film, "Night Watch", which, although keeping the characters and many of the events of the original novel, alters some significant elements of the story.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP]  Regeneration: Being an Account of the Social Work of the Salvation Army in Great Britain is a 1910 non fiction book by H. Rider Haggard.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] "Regeneration" by J. I. Packer
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP]  The film features the participation of the late Howard Zinn, Noam Chomsky, Democracy Now!'s Amy Goodman, Adbusters Foundation's Kalle Lasn, Talib Kweli, STS9, Tucker Carlson and experts on media, pop culture, and education.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP]  ReGeneration is a 2010 American documentary film written and directed by Phillip Montgomery that looks at the issues facing today's youth and young adults, and the influences that contribute to America's current culture of apathy toward to political and social causes.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP]   Regeneration (alternately called  The Regeneration) is a 1915 American silent biographical crime drama co-written and directed by Raoul Walsh. The film, which was the first full-length feature film directed by Walsh, stars Rockliffe Fellowes and Anna Q. Nilsson and was adapted for the screen by Carl Harbaugh and Walsh from the 1903 memoir My Mamie Rose, by Owen Frawley Kildare and the adapted 1908 play by Kildare and Walter C. Hackett. Cited as one of the first full-length gangster films, Regeneration tells the story of a poor orphan who rises to control the mob until he meets a woman for whom he wants to change. TimeOut says it is notable for its "remarkable approach to physical casting, a robust treatment of violent action, and a sheer narrative pace to shame contemporary ponderousness." It was feared lost until a copy was located by the Museum of Modern Art.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] Regeneration (novel)  Regeneration is a historical and anti-war novel by Pat Barker, first published in 1991. The novel was a Booker Prize nominee and was described by the "New York Times Book Review" as one of the four best novels of the year in its year of publication. It is the first of three novels in the "Regeneration Trilogy" of novels on the First World War, the other two being "The Eye in the Door" and "The Ghost Road", which won the Booker Prize in 1995. The novel was adapted into a film by the same name in 1997 by Scottish film director Gillies MacKinnon and starring Jonathan Pryce as Rivers, James Wilby as Sassoon and Jonny Lee Miller as Prior.<ref name="Westman69-72" /> The film was successful in the UK and Canada, receiving nominations for a number of awards.<ref name="Westman69-72" />  The novel explores the experience of British army officers being treated for shell shock during World War I at Craiglockhart War Hospital in Edinburgh. Inspired by her grandfather's experience of World War I, Barker draws extensively on first person narratives from the period. Using these sources, she created characters based on historical individuals present at the hospital including poets and patients, Siegfried Sassoon and Wilfred Owen, and psychiatrist W. H. R. Rivers, who pioneered treatments of posttraumatic stress disorder during and after World War I. The title of the novel refers to Rivers' research into "nerve regeneration". Barker also includes fictional characters, based on the larger cultural experience of the period, including an officer who grew up in the lower classes, Billy Prior, and his girlfriend and munitionette, Sarah Lumb.  The novel is thematically complex, exploring the effect of the War on identity, masculinity, and social structure. Moreover, the novel draws extensively on period psychological practices, emphasising Rivers' research as well as Freudian psychology. Through the novel Barker enters a particular tradition of representing the experience of World War I in literature: many critics compare the novel to other , especially those written by women writers interested in the domestic repercussions of the war, including Rebecca West's "The Return of the Soldier" (1918) and Virginia Woolf's "Mrs. Dalloway" (1925). Barker both drew on those texts of the period that initially inspired her and makes references to a number of other literary and cultural works and events. These give an impression of historical realism, even though Barker tends to refute the claim that the novel is "historical fiction".
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] Regeneration Trilogy  The Regeneration Trilogy is a series of three novels by Pat Barker on the subject of the First World War. In 2012, "The Observer" named it as one of "The 10 best historical novels".
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] Pat Barker  Patricia Mary W. Barker, (née Drake; born 8 May 1943) She has won many awards for her fiction, which centres on themes of memory, trauma, survival and recovery. Her work is described as direct, blunt and plainspoken. In 2012, "The Observer" named the Regeneration Trilogy as one of "The 10 best historical novels".
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] Neural Regeneration Research  Neural Regeneration Research is a peer-reviewed scientific journal covering research on neuroregeneration and stem cells. Topics covered include neural stem cells, neural tissue engineering, gene therapy, and minimally-invasive treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. It was established in 2006 and the editors in chief are Kwok-Fai So (University of Hong Kong) and Xiao-Ming Xu (Indiana University). The journal publishes the following types of papers: research and reports, techniques and methods, investigation and analysis, meta-analyses and reviews, evidence-based case reports, and perspectives.
Who is the author of Regeneration? [SEP] Regenerative agriculture  Regenerative agriculture is a conservation and rehabilitation approach to food and farming systems. It focuses on topsoil regeneration, increasing biodiversity, improving the water cycle, enhancing ecosystem services, supporting biosequestration, increasing resilience to climate change, and strengthening the health and vitality of farm soil.  Regenerative agriculture is not a specific practice itself. Rather, proponents of regenerative agriculture use a variety of sustainable agriculture techniques in combination. Practices include recycling as much farm waste as possible and adding composted material from sources outside the farm. Regenerative agriculture on small farms and gardens is often based on philosophies like permaculture, agroecology, agroforestry, restoration ecology, keyline design, and holistic management. Large farms are also increasingly adopting such techniques, and often use "no-till" and/or "reduced till" practices.  As soil health improves, input requirements may decrease, and crop yields may increase as soils are more resilient against extreme weather and harbor fewer pests and pathogens.  Most plans to mitigate climate change focus on "reducing greenhouse gas emissions." Regenerative agriculture, i.e. the capture of atmospheric carbon dioxide by growing plants that move that carbon dioxide into the soil, is pretty nearly the only currently-functioning technology available for drawing down greenhouse gases that are already in the atmosphere, mostly through the cultivation and nurturing of forests and permanent perennial pastures and grasslands.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP]  None known
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP]  The Latimers : A Tale of the Western Insurrection of 1794 is an historical novel by the American writer and Presbyterian clergyman Henry Christopher McCook (1837–1911) set in 1790s Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The novel tells the story of Scotch-Irish American pioneers during the Whiskey Rebellion.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP]  Jonathan Wyatt Latimer (October 23, 1906 &ndash; June 23, 1983) was an American crime writer known his novels and screenplays. Before becoming an author, Latimer was a journalist in Chicago.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP]  Latimer became a journalist at the Chicago Herald Examiner and later for the Chicago Tribune, writing about crime and meeting Al Capone and Bugs Moran, among others. In the mid-1930s, he turned to writing fiction, starting with a series of novels featuring private eye William Crane, in which he introduced his typical blend of hardboiled crime fiction and elements of screwball comedy.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] A book of poetry called Poems of Love and Life. ; A technical book, Incandescent Electric Lighting (1890). ; Various pieces for African-American journals. ; A petition to Mayor Seth Low to restore a member to the Brooklyn School Board.  Latimer played the violin and flute, painted portraits and wrote plays. He was an early advocate of civil rights. In 1895 Lewis wrote a statement in connection with the National Conference of Colored Men about equality, security, and opportunity.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] Jonathan Latimer  Jonathan Wyatt Latimer (October 23, 1906 – June 23, 1983) was an American crime writer known his novels and screenplays. Before becoming an author, Latimer was a journalist in Chicago.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] Hugh Latimer  Hugh Latimer ( – 16 October 1555) was a Fellow of Clare College, Cambridge, and Bishop of Worcester during the Reformation, and later Church of England chaplain to King Edward VI. In 1555 under the Catholic Queen Mary I he was burned at the stake, becoming one of the three Oxford Martyrs of Anglicanism.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] Lewis Howard Latimer  Lewis Howard Latimer (September 4, 1848 – December 11, 1928) was an African-American inventor and patent draftsman. His inventions included an evaporative air conditioner, an improved process for manufacturing carbon filaments for light bulbs, and an improved toilet system for railroad cars. In 1884, he joined the Edison Electric Light Company where he worked as a draftsman and wrote the first book on electric lighting. The Lewis H. Latimer House, his landmarked former residence, is located near the Latimer Projects at 34-41 137th Street in Flushing, Queens, New York City.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] Elizabeth Wormeley Latimer  Mary Elizabeth Wormeley Latimer (July 26, 1822 – January 4, 1904) was an English-American writer, both of original works and translations.
Who is the author of The Latimers? [SEP] The Latimers  The Latimers : A Tale of the Western Insurrection of 1794 is an historical novel by the American writer and Presbyterian clergyman Henry Christopher McCook (1837–1911) set in 1790s Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.  The novel tells the story of Scotch-Irish American pioneers during the Whiskey Rebellion.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]  Saint: Why I Should Be Canonized Right Away is a book written by American Catholic radio host Lino Rulli. It was released on September 3, 2013 and is the sequel to Rulli's 2011 book, Sinner.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]  Saint is a 2006 mystery novel written by Ted Dekker. It is the second in the series of the 'Project Showdown' Books which are also called 'The Paradise Novels'.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]  The Saint is a mystery novel by Burl Barer published by Pocket Books in 1997. It was based upon the screenplay for the film The Saint, which in turn was loosely based upon the character Simon Templar, created by Leslie Charteris. Val Kilmer portrayed Templar and is pictured on the book's front cover. This was the first book featuring Templar since Salvage for the Saint ended the original series of books (which began in 1928) in 1983. It is also the first Saint story to be published since Charteris' death in 1993 and the first to not be published by either Hodder & Stoughton (UK) or The Crime Club (US). Barer wrote the book based upon the screenplay by Jonathan Hensleigh and Wesley Strick. Barer himself
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]  A novelization based upon the film script was written by Burl Barer.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]  Saint is the second published novel in the Project Showdown series, which are also known as the Paradise Novels. Even though the books are their own series, Showdown, Saint, and Sinner are a part of what is referred to as the Books of History Chronicles. In the Circle Trilogy, a man named Thomas Hunter discovers an alternate universe containing Books of History, which make anything written in them come true as long as the writer has the faith of a child. 30 years later, Showdown takes place. Saint and then Sinner take place 15 years after that. Both House and Skin are directly tied into the Paradise Novels. Barsidious White (the antagonist in House) was created by Marsuvees Black (from
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP] Leslie Charteris  Leslie Charteris (born Leslie Charles Bowyer-Yin, 12 May 1907 – 15 April 1993), was a British-Chinese author of adventure fiction, as well as a screenwriter. He was best known for his many books chronicling the adventures of his charming hero Simon Templar, alias "The Saint".
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP]
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP] The Saint (Simon Templar)  The Saint is the nickname of the fictional character Simon Templar, featured in a series of novels and short stories by Leslie Charteris published between 1928 and 1963. After that date, other authors collaborated with Charteris on books until 1983; two additional works produced without Charteris's participation were published in 1997. The character has also been portrayed in motion pictures, radio dramas, comic strips, comic books and three television series.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP] John the Apostle  John the Apostle (;  ; Ge'ez: ዮሐንስ;) or Saint John the Beloved was one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus according to the New Testament. Generally listed as the youngest apostle, he was the son of Zebedee and Salome. His brother James was another of the Twelve Apostles. The Church Fathers identify him as John the Evangelist, John of Patmos, John the Elder, and the Beloved Disciple, and testify that he outlived the remaining apostles and was the only one to die of natural causes, although modern scholars are divided on the veracity of these claims.  John the Apostle is traditionally held to be the author of the Gospel of John, and many Christian denominations believe that he authored several other books of the New Testament (the three Johannine epistles and the Book of Revelation, together with the Gospel of John, are called the Johannine works), depending on whether he is distinguished from, or identified with, John the Evangelist, John the Elder, and John of Patmos.  Although the authorship of the Johannine works has traditionally been attributed to John the Apostle, Regardless of whether or not John the Apostle wrote any of the Johannine works, most scholars agree that all three epistles were written by the same author and that the epistles did not have the same author as the Book of Revelation, although there is widespread disagreement among scholars as to whether the author of the epistles was different from that of the gospel.
Who is the author of Saint? [SEP] Prayer of Saint Francis  The anonymous text that is usually called the Prayer of Saint Francis (or Peace Prayer, or Simple Prayer for Peace, or Make Me an Instrument of Your Peace) is a widely known Christian prayer for peace. Often associated with the Italian Saint Francis of Assisi ( – 1226), but entirely absent from his writings, the prayer in its present form has not been traced back further than 1912. It has been frequently set to music by notable songwriters and quoted by prominent leaders, and its broadly inclusive language has found appeal with diverse faiths encouraging service to others.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP]  Nevis Mountain Dew, the second play in the series, deals with the effects of the patriarch being crippled by paralysis in the Queens section of New York City in the 1950s. Like Whose Life Is It Anyway?, it deals with euthanasia. Both were among the ten productions selected by the Burns Mantle Yearbook as "The Best Plays of 1978–1979."
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] 1977: Outer Critics Circle Award (Most Promising New Playwright) for Eden ; 1979: Selection, Burns Mantle, The Best Plays of 1978–1979 for Nevis Mountain Dew ; 1979: Drama Desk Award (Outstanding New Play) nomination for Nevis Mountain Dew ; 1980: Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle Award (Playwriting) for Eden ; 1990: Jeff Award (Best New Work) for Pecong ; 2001: National Black Theatre Festival – Living Legend Award  Carter has also received recognition from the National Endowment for the Arts, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Guggenheim Foundation and the New York State Council on the Arts.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP]  Ben Nevis Goes East is a 1954 comedy novel by the British writer Compton Mackenzie. It features characters introduced in Mackenzie's The Monarch of the Glen. Donald MacDonald of Ben Nevis and his friend Kilwhillie head to British India in order to save his nephew from what is considered a disastrous marriage to a divorced woman.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Jason V. Brock (born 1970), author, artist, editor, filmmaker (Charlotte) ; Don Brown (born 1960), author, attorney, former naval officer (Plymouth) ; Betsy Byars (1928–2020), children's author (Charlotte) ; Wiley Cash, novelist (Gastonia) ; Fred Chappell (born 1936), author and North Carolina Poet Laureate 1997–2002 (Canton) ; Ellis Credle (1902–1998), author of books for children and young adults, including Down Down the Mountain (1934) (Hyde County) ; Sarah Dessen (born 1970), writer of novels for young adults (Chapel Hill) ; Thomas Dixon Jr. (1864–1946), author of The Clansman (Shelby) ; Pamela Duncan (born 1961), novelist whose books often focus on working-class Southerners (Asheville) ; John Ehle (1925–2018), author (Asheville) ; Charles Frazier (born 1950), author of best-selling novel Cold Mountain (Asheville) ; Kaye Gibbons (born 1960), author of novels Ellen Foster and A Virtuous Woman (Rocky Mount) ; Jim Grimsley (born 1955),
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP]  Along with being an amateur folklorist and musician, Bascom Lamar Lunsford was a lawyer practicing in rural North Carolina during the 1920s. At the time, the manufacturing of beverage alcohol for non-medicinal purposes was illegal in the United States due to prohibition, but North Carolina residents nevertheless continued their longstanding tradition of making a form of illegal whiskey called moonshine. Lunsford frequently defended local clients that were accused of the practice, and the original lyrics and banjo accompaniment to "Good Old Mountain Dew" were written during the course of one of these cases. In 1928, Lunsford recorded the song for Brunswick Records. Scotty Wiseman, of the duo Lulu Belle and Scotty, was a friend of Lunsford's. When Lulu
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Steve Carter (playwright)  Horace Edward "Steve" Carter Jr. (November 7, 1929 – September 15, 2020) was an American playwright, best known for his plays involving Caribbean immigrants living in the United States.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Samm-Art Williams  Samm-Art Williams (born Samuel Arthur Williams; January 20, 1946) is an American playwright and screenwriter, and a stage and film/TV actor and television producer. Much of his work concerns the African-American experience.  He was nominated for a Tony Award and a Drama Desk Award for his play "Home" (1979), which moved from the Negro Ensemble Company to a Broadway production in 1980. In the mid-1980s, he received two Emmy nominations for his work for TV series. The Black Rep of St. Louis, Missouri produced the premier of his play "The Montford Point Marine" (2011).
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Play  The Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Play is an annual award presented by Drama Desk in recognition of achievements in the theatre among Broadway, Off Broadway and Off-Off Broadway productions. The award was initially introduced in 1955 as the Vernon Rice Award for Outstanding Achievement in Theatre, before being removed from the ceremony between 1960 and 1974. The award later returned in the 1975 ceremony, with its current title.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Eden (Steve Carter play)  Eden is a 1976 play by American playwright Steve Carter. Set in the 1920s, it is the first of Carter's Caribbean trilogy. "Eden" explores intra-racial conflicts between recent immigrants from the Caribbean and the African-American population. The West Coast premiere of this critically acclaimed play received five Los Angeles Drama Critics Circle Awards.
Who is the author of Nevis Mountain Dew? [SEP] Arthur French (actor)  Arthur Wellesley French Jr.<ref name="nytobit" /> (November 6, 1931 – July 24, 2021) was an American actor and director, best known for his work in the theatre.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP]  World of Wonder is an anthology of science fiction and fantasy stories edited by Fletcher Pratt, published in hardcover by Twayne in 1951. No subsequent editions were issued.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP]  Worlds of Wonder is a collection of three science fiction works by Olaf Stapledon: a short novel, a novella and a short story. It was published in 1949 by Fantasy Publishing Company, Inc. in an edition of 500 copies. All of the stories had originally been published in the United Kingdom.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP]  The book contains an extended treatment of the paedophilic abuse inflicted on the young Eisengrim by his abductor who repeatedly sodomizes him and uses him to obtain morphine, but in turn teaches him hand magic.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP] World of Wonder (1951)
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP]  New York Times reviewer Villiers Gerson, despite describing the contents as "excellent stories," faulted the anthology because the diversity of the stories "obscures the sharp line between fantasy and its more popular sibling, science fiction," and because many of the stories had previously been anthologized.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP]
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP] William Moulton Marston  William Moulton Marston (May 9, 1893 – May 2, 1947), also known by the pen name Charles Moulton (), was an American psychologist who, with his wife Elizabeth Holloway, invented an early prototype of the lie detector. He was also known as a self-help author and comic book writer who created the character Wonder Woman.<ref name="NYT-20141023"/>  Two women, his wife Elizabeth Holloway Marston, and their polyamorous life partner, Olive Byrne, greatly influenced Wonder Woman's creation.  He was inducted into the Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2006.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP] Wonders of the World  Various lists of the Wonders of the World have been compiled from antiquity to the present day, in order to catalogue the world's most spectacular natural features and human-built structures.  The Seven Wonders of the Ancient World is the oldest known list of this type, documenting the most remarkable man-made creations of classical antiquity; it was based on guidebooks popular among Hellenic sightseers and as such only includes works located around the Mediterranean rim and in the ancient Near East. The number seven was chosen because the Greeks believed it represented perfection and plenty, and because it reflected the number of planets known in ancient times (five) plus the Sun and Moon.
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP] State of Wonder
Who is the author of World of Wonder? [SEP] Sense of wonder  A sense of wonder (sometimes jokingly written sensawunda) is an intellectual and emotional state frequently invoked in discussions of science and biology, higher consciousness, science fiction, and philosophy.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP]  Dancing on Coral is a Miles Franklin Award-winning novel by Australian author Glenda Adams.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP]  Parts of this novel first appeared in Lies and Stories and The Hottest Night of the Century.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP]  Coral Hull (born 1965) is an author, poet, artist and photographer living in Darwin, Australia. She has authored many books, including poetry, fiction, non-fiction, artwork and digital photography. Her areas of special interest have been in ethics, animal rights, autism, consciousness, multiplicity, metaphysics and the paranormal. Her book on psychokinesis titled "Walking With The Angels: The RSPK Journals" was completed in 2007. Coral was also a trance medium and a channeler involved in the new age and the occult. Hull became a born again Christian in late 2009.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] Pink Cadillac (2001) by Robert Dunn ; Cutting Time (2003) by Robert Dunn ; Lone Star Ice and Fire (2005) by L.E. Brady ; Soul Cavalcade (2006) by Robert Dunn ; Meet the Annas (2007) by Robert Dunn ; Getting in Tune (2008) by Roger L. Trott ; Look At Flower (2011) by Robert Dunn ; Stations of the Cross (2013) by Robert Dunn ; Roadie (2016) by Howard Massey ; Savage Joy (2017) by Robert Dunn Coral Press is a small, New York City-based independent publisher of musical fiction. Founded in 2001 by Robert Dunn, it has a very specific author clientele and deals solely in books of musical fiction. Coral Press has been written up in Publishers Weekly as the preeminent publisher of musical fiction, and its efforts
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] Glenda Adams's novel Dancing on Coral wins the Miles Franklin Award
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] Dancing on Coral  Dancing on Coral is a Miles Franklin Award-winning novel by Australian author Glenda Adams.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] 1987 in Australian literature  This article presents a list of the historical events and publications of Australian literature during 1987.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] Glenda Adams  Glenda Emilie Adams (née Felton; 30 December 1939 – 11 July 2007) was an Australian novelist and short story writer, probably best known as the winner of the 1987 Miles Franklin Award for "Dancing on Coral". She was a teacher of creative writing, and helped develop writing programs.  Adams' work is found in her own books and short story collections, in numerous short story anthologies, and in journals and magazines. Her essays, stories and articles have been published in, among other magazines, "Meanjin", "The New York Times Book Review", "Panorama", "Quadrant", "Southerly", "Westerly", "The Sydney Morning Herald", "The Observer" and "The Village Voice".
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] Oscar and Lucinda  Oscar and Lucinda is a novel by Australian author Peter Carey which won the 1988 Booker Prize and the 1989 Miles Franklin Award. It was shortlisted for The Best of the Booker.
Who is the author of Dancing on Coral? [SEP] You Should Be Dancing  "You Should Be Dancing" is a song by the Bee Gees, from the album "Children of the World", released in 1976. It hit No. 1 for one week on the American "Billboard" Hot 100, No. 1 for seven weeks on the US Hot Dance Club Play chart, and in September the same year, reached No. 5 on the UK Singles Chart.<ref name="UK"/> The song also peaked at No. 4 on the "Billboard" Soul chart. It was this song that first launched the Bee Gees into disco. It was also the only track from the group to top the dance chart.  It is also one of six songs performed by the Bee Gees included in the "Saturday Night Fever" movie soundtrack which came out a year later.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP]  New Keywords: A Revised Vocabulary of Culture and Society is a book edited by Tony Bennett, Lawrence Grossberg and Meaghan Morris and published in 2005 by Blackwell Publishing. It is an attempt to revise Raymond Williams' seminal 1976 text, Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP]  In July, 2004, he was awarded the TR35 prize by Technology Review (the best 35 researchers in the world under the age of 35). He is Professor in Computer Science at the University of Padua, and Research Scientist at MIT’s Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory (CSAIL) in the World Wide Web Consortium. He was the creator of HyperSearch, a search engine where the results were based not only on single page ranks, but on the relationship between single pages and the rest of the Web. Afterwards, Google co-founders Larry Page and Sergey Brin cited HyperSearch when they introduced PageRank. He has been chief editor of the world standard for privacy on the Web (P3P), and co-author of the companion APPEL specification. Initiator of the Query Languages effort at W3C (see for
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP]  Barry Schwartz (born 1980) is a blogger who writes about search engines and search engine marketing. Schwartz is the founder and currently the editor of Search Engine Roundtable, an online news site covering the search engines and search engine marketing. He also is the CEO & President of RustyBrick, Inc., a New York-based web development company, and a news editor at Search Engine Land, a search engine news site founded by Danny Sullivan. Previously, Schwartz was a writer for Search Engine Watch. He also moderates online and offline panels at Search Engine Watch, Cre8asite Forums and WebmasterWorld's PubCon. He has been interviewed by NBC Nightly News and USA Today about Search Marketing, and has been quoted by news organizations reporting on the Internet Marketing space. He is also the organizer of the annual Search Marketing Expo (SMX) in Israel, and is a member of the Internet Marketers – New York. He was also the host of the Search Pulse podcast on WebmasterRadio.FM.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP]   HP Newquist is an American author whose books cover a wide range of topics, from medicine and music to technology and terror. He has also worked as an editor, musician, industry analyst, and video director.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] Byron Katie
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society  Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society is a book by the Welsh Marxist academic Raymond Williams published in 1976 by Croom Helm.  Originally intended to be published along with the author's 1958 work "Culture and Society", this work examines the history of more than a hundred words that are familiar and yet confusing: Art, Bureaucracy, Culture, Educated, Management, Masses, Nature, Originality, Radical, Society, Welfare, Work, and many others.  The approach is cultural rather than etymological. Sometimes the origins of a word cast light on its meaning, but often one finds that it originally meant something quite different. Or that there has been a fierce political struggle over the 'correct' meaning.  A revised and expanded edition of "Keywords" was published by Fontana in 1983. In 2005 Blackwell published , an attempt to update Williams' text.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] C (programming language)  C ("pronounced like the letter c") is a general-purpose computer programming language. It was created in the 1970s by Dennis Ritchie, and remains very widely used and influential. By design, C's features cleanly reflect the capabilities of the targeted CPUs. It has found lasting use in operating systems, device drivers, protocol stacks, though decreasingly for application software. C is commonly used on computer architectures that range from the largest supercomputers to the smallest microcontrollers and embedded systems.  A successor to the programming language B, C was originally developed at Bell Labs by Ritchie between 1972 and 1973 to construct utilities running on Unix. It was applied to re-implementing the kernel of the Unix operating system. with C compilers available for practically all modern computer architectures and operating systems. C has been standardized by ANSI since 1989 (ANSI C) and by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO).  C is an imperative procedural language, supporting structured programming, lexical variable scope and recursion, with a static type system. It was designed to be compiled to provide low-level access to memory and language constructs that map efficiently to machine instructions, all with minimal runtime support. Despite its low-level capabilities, the language was designed to encourage cross-platform programming. A standards-compliant C program written with portability in mind can be compiled for a wide variety of computer platforms and operating systems with few changes to its source code.<ref name="cppreference" />  Since 2000, C has consistently ranked among the top two languages in the TIOBE index, a measure of the popularity of programming languages.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] New Keywords  New Keywords: A Revised Vocabulary of Culture and Society is a book edited by Tony Bennett, Lawrence Grossberg and Meaghan Morris and published in 2005 by Blackwell Publishing. It is an attempt to revise Raymond Williams' seminal 1976 text, "".
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] Raymond Williams  Raymond Henry Williams (31 August 1921 – 26 January 1988) was a Welsh socialist writer, academic, novelist and critic influential within the New Left and in wider culture. His writings on politics, culture, the media and literature contributed to the Marxist critique of culture and the arts. Some 750,000 copies of his books were sold in UK editions alone, and there are many translations available. His work laid foundations for the field of cultural studies and cultural materialism.
Who is the author of New Keywords? [SEP] Atria Publishing Group  Atria Publishing Group is a general interest publisher and a division of Simon & Schuster. The publishing group launched as Atria Books in 2002. The Atria Publishing Group was later created internally at Simon & Schuster to house a number of imprints including Atria Books, Atria Trade Paperbacks, Atrai Books Espanol, Atria Unbound, Washington Square Press, Emily Bestler Books, Atria/Beyond Words, Cash Money Content, Howard Books, Marble Arch Press, Strebor Books, 37 Ink, Keywords Press and Enliven Books. Atria is also known for creating innovative imprints and co-publishing deals with African-American writers as well as known for experimenting with digital or non-traditional print formats and authors.  As of 2021, Libby McGuire is the Publisher and Senior Vice President of the Atria Publishing Group.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP]  Barakat contributed to this anthology that explores the concept of freedom. Free? was published April 27, 2020 by Candlewick. Other contributors include David Almond, Margaret Mahy, Meja Mwangi, Jamila Gavin, Eoin Colfer, Michael Morpurgo, Theresa Breslin, and Sarah Mussi.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP]  In addition to the book How to Lose Friends and Alienate People, Young is the author of The Sound of No Hands Clapping (2006), How to Set Up a Free School (2011) and What Every Parent Needs to Know: How to Help Your Child Get the Most Out of Primary School (2014), which he co-wrote with Miranda Thomas.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP]  Free as in Freedom: Richard Stallman's Crusade for Free Software (ISBN: 0-596-00287-4) is a free book licensed under the GNU Free Documentation License about the life of Richard Stallman, written by Sam Williams and published by O'Reilly Media on March 1, 2002. Williams conducted several interviews with Stallman during the writing of the book, as well as with classmates, colleagues of Stallman, and his mother. The book has received positive reviews.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP]  Her book How Physics Makes Us Free was selected by John Farrell of Forbes Magazine as 2016 Book of the Year.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP]  Pastor Eric Dykstra and Pastor Bruce Rauma of Legacy Church co-wrote Unhooked & Untangled: A Guide to Finding Freedom from your Vices, Addictions, and Bad Habits in June 2014. Unhooked and Untangled is a practical, step-by-step guide to breaking addictions and walking into the "full and satisfying life that God has for you."
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP] Getting Things Done  Getting Things Done (GTD) is a personal productivity system developed by David Allen and published in a book of the same name. Allen states "there is an inverse relationship between things on your mind and those things getting done".  The GTD method rests on the idea of moving all items of interest, relevant information, issues, tasks and projects out of one's mind by recording them externally and then breaking them into actionable work items with "known time limits". This allows one's attention to focus on taking action on each task listed in an external record, instead of recalling them intuitively.  First published in 2001,<ref name= Allen2001/> a revised edition of the book was released in 2015 to reflect the changes in information technology during the preceding decade.<ref name="Allen2015" />
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP] Getting Free  Getting Free is a novel by British author Nigel Hinton that was first published in 1978. It tells the story of a teenage couple who ran away when they discovered they were expectant parents and to escape from an abusive and disapproving father.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP] Matthew Lesko  Matthew John Lesko (born May 11, 1943) is an American author known for his publications and infomercials on federal grant funding. He has written over twenty books instructing people how to get money from the United States government. Widely recognized for recording television commercials, infomercials, and interviews in colorful suits decorated with question marks, Lesko's signature fashion also extends into his daily attire and transportation,  earning him the nickname Question Mark Guy.
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP] David Allen (author)  David Allen (born December 28, 1945) is an American productivity consultant best known for the creation of a time management method called "Getting Things Done".
Who is the author of Getting Free? [SEP] Get Free (Lana Del Rey song)  "Get Free" is a song by American singer and songwriter Lana Del Rey from her fifth studio album, "Lust for Life" (2017). The song was written by Del Rey, Rick Nowels, and Kieron Menzies, all of whom produced the song with Dean Reid. Del Rey performed the song various times, most notably on her LA to the Moon Tour in 2018.  In January 2018, Del Rey confirmed speculation that Radiohead had filed a copyright lawsuit against her and her team for alleged similarities between "Get Free" and their hit song, "Creep".
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP]  Shooting Sean is the fourth novel of the Dan Starkey series by Northern Irish author, Colin Bateman, released on 8 May 2001 through Harper Collins. The novel was named by Hugh Macdonald as one of The Heralds "paperbacks of the week" in June 2001.
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP]  state that "in the hands of such a skilful writer this adds to the fun". She further states that she loves "Bateman's work for its strong construction, sharp satirical writing and inventive characterization" as well as his "attention to detail, and witty observation". RTÉ also reviewed the novel, with Tom Grealis stating that the novel was "a funny and highly entertaining tale of narcotics, terrorism and eh, moviemaking". He does mention that "one thing that has to be pointed out about Shooting Sean is that the plot becomes somewhat ridiculous in the latter stages", following this with "[Bateman's] decision to go for suspense over characterization certainly panders to the mainstream, but
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP]  is a pandering one cannot but enjoy". Grealis also concluded that he found the novel to be "engaging, funny and eminently readable". Writing for Scottish newspaper, the Southern Reporter, Fiona Scott stated that Bateman "has become an absolute favourite" and that "Shooting Sean is my favourite so far". She states that "Bateman's droll Irish wit is ideal for this storyline", calling the novel as a whole simply "hilarious". Reviewing for Sprout Lore, reviewer David V. Baker stated that Bateman "has a wicked sense of humour" and that he found the book to be "a gripping read which will leave you laughing and sad at the same time, a rare quality".
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP]  Sean Phillips lives with a caretaker after shooting himself in the head at age 17, causing facial disfigurement. The circumstances of the shooting are initially left ambiguous. Sean's relationship with his parents is strained as they struggle to understand why he chose to shoot himself. The novel alternates between different moments in Sean's life. He describes the reactions people have to his appearance, and the experience he has meeting people before and after the shooting. One of his friends, Kimmy, visits him in the hospital, but she is discouraged by Sean's parents who believe she convinced Sean to shoot himself. While recuperating in the hospital, Sean develops the play-by-mail role-playing game Trace Italian, from which he earns a small income. The objective of Trace Italian is to traverse a post-apocalyptic United States and locate a fortress after which the game is named—a fortress that Sean claims no
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP]  The novel was well received, with reviewers praising Bateman's droll humour and attention to detail. In a review for The Herald, Hugh Macdonald stated that, while written fiction is often humorous without ever being laugh-out-loud funny, "Bateman can and does make me laugh" and found the novel to contain "Sharp-edged humour with a touch of suspense". Sue Leonard, reviewing for Books Ireland, called Bateman "the master of the fast-paced improbable satire" and stated that Shooting Sean "is packed full of humour and specializes in one liners". Leonard went on to say that "as in other Bateman novels the plot is so much larger than life as to be totally unbelievable" however
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP] Shooting Sean  Shooting Sean is the fourth novel of the "Dan Starkey" series by Northern Irish author, Colin Bateman, released on 8 May 2001 through HarperCollins. The novel was named by Hugh Macdonald as one of "The Heralds" "paperbacks of the week" in June 2001.
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP] A Simple Favor (film)  A Simple Favor is a 2018 American black comedy crime thriller film directed by Paul Feig from a screenplay by Jessica Sharzer, based on the 2017 novel of the same name by Darcey Bell. It stars Anna Kendrick, Blake Lively, Henry Golding, Andrew Rannells, Linda Cardellini, Rupert Friend, and Jean Smart and follows a small-town vlogger who tries to solve the disappearance of her elegant and mysterious friend.  It was released in the United States on September 14, 2018, by Lionsgate. Critics praised the plot twists, and the performances of Kendrick, Lively and Golding. It grossed $97 million worldwide on a $20 million budget. A sequel is in development, with Kendrick and Lively set to reprise their roles, and Feig returning to direct.
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP] Sean Taylor (writer)  Sean Taylor (born May 2, 1968) is an American comic book and short story writer, perhaps best known for his run on "Gene Simmons Dominatrix" published by IDW Publishing.
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP] Shooting of Sean Monterrosa  Sean Monterrosa was a 22-year-old Latino American man who was fatally shot on June 2, 2020, by Vallejo police officer Jarrett Tonn. Monterrosa was on his knees and had his hands above his waist when Tonn shot him through the windshield of his unmarked police pickup truck. The police later said Tonn shot him because he erroneously believed a hammer in Monterrosa's pocket was a gun. Monterrosa later died at a local hospital.<ref name="San Francisco Chronicle2"/>  The event sparked outrage in the Bay Area, particularly in Vallejo, which has a long history of police violence, excessive force complaints, and high-profile killings, including the February 2018 shooting of Ronnell Foster and the February 2019 shooting of Willie McCoy.
Who is the author of Shooting Sean? [SEP] Wolf in White Van  Wolf in White Van is the first novel by the American author and singer-songwriter John Darnielle. "Wolf in White Van" tells the story of Sean Phillips, a reclusive game designer whose face has been severely disfigured. One reviewer characterizes Sean as someone "steeped in video games, bad sci-fi movies, and Conan the Barbarian comic books". The plot, which is told non-chronologically, alternates among Sean's childhood, adolescence, and adulthood to describe the circumstances surrounding the incident that disfigured him. A fictional play-by-mail role-playing game called "Trace Italian" figures prominently in the novel.  The novel has been described as a "meditation on the power of escape," exploring the escapist qualities of fantasy fiction and role-playing games, particularly as a way to cope with trauma. "Wolf in White Van" received positive reviews on release and was nominated for the 2014 National Book Award.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP]  Looking Forward was published in 1969. Author Ken Keyes Jr., and Jacque Fresco coauthored the book. Looking Forward is a speculative look at the future. The authors picture an ideal 'cybernetic society in which want has been banished and work and personal possessions no longer exist; individual gratification is the total concern'.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP]  Looking Forward is an anthology of science fiction stories edited by Milton Lesser, published in hardcover in 1953 by Beechhurst Press and reprinted in the British market in 1955 by Cassell & Company. The anthology was particularly poorly received, and carried the unusually high cover price, for its day, of $5.00. Its contents include one of the few uncollected and otherwise unanthologized stories by Walter M. Miller, Jr..
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP]  In 1933 it was adapted into an American film Looking Forward directed by Clarence Brown and starring Lionel Barrymore and Lewis Stone.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP]  Looking Forward is a 1933 American Pre-Code drama film starring Lionel Barrymore and Lewis Stone. Based on the Dodie Smith play Service, it depicts the desperate struggle of a London department store owner to save his business during the Great Depression.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Frank H. Crane ; William Russell
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Looking Backward  Looking Backward: 2000–1887 is a utopian science fiction novel by Edward Bellamy, a journalist and writer from Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts; it was first published in 1888.  The book was translated into several languages, and in short order "sold a million copies."    In 2021 The New York Times published "In the 19th-century United States, only "Uncle Tom’s Cabin" sold more copies in its first years than 'Looking Backward.' It influenced many intellectuals, and appears by title in many socialist writings of the day. "It is one of the few books ever published that created almost immediately on its appearance a political mass movement".   In the United States alone, over 162 "Bellamy Clubs" sprang up to discuss and propagate the book's ideas. Owing to its commitment to the nationalization of private property and the desire to avoid use of the term "socialism", this political movement came to be known as Nationalism—not to be confused with the political concept of nationalism. The novel also inspired several utopian communities.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Progress: Ten Reasons to Look Forward to the Future  Progress: Ten Reasons to Look Forward to the Future is a 2016 book by Swedish writer Johan Norberg (a Senior Fellow of the libertarian Cato Institute), which promotes globalization, free trade and the notion of progress. In it, Norberg develops his ideas published previously in "In Defense of Global Capitalism" (2001).
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Looking Forward (anthology)  Looking Forward is an anthology of science fiction stories edited by Milton Lesser, published in hardcover in 1953 by Beechhurst Press and reprinted in the British market in 1955 by Cassell & Company. The anthology was particularly poorly received, and carried the unusually high cover price, for its day, of $5.00. Its contents include one of the few uncollected and otherwise unanthologized stories by Walter M. Miller, Jr.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Looking Forward  Looking Forward is the third and final studio album by Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young and their fifth, overall. It is the fourteenth and final album when conflated with releases by the trio of Crosby, Stills & Nash. It was released on Reprise Records in 1999 and peaked at number 26 on the "Billboard" 200, with total sales nearing 400,000.
Who is the author of Looking Forward? [SEP] Look Homeward, Angel  Look Homeward, Angel: A Story of the Buried Life is a 1929 novel by Thomas Wolfe. It is Wolfe's first novel, and is considered a highly autobiographical American coming-of-age story. The character of Eugene Gant is generally believed to be a depiction of Wolfe himself. The novel briefly recounts Eugene's father's early life, but primarily covers the span of time from Eugene's birth in 1900 to his definitive departure from home at the age of 19. The setting is a fictionalization of his home town of Asheville, North Carolina, called Altamont, Catawba, in the novel.  A restored version of the original manuscript of "Look Homeward, Angel", titled "O Lost", was published in 2000.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP]  What Was Before (Was davor geschah) is a 2010 novel by the German writer Martin Mosebach. Through a series of vignettes, it tells the story of a man from the affluent suburbs of Frankfurt, who is asked by his girlfriend what his life was like before they met. An English translation by Kári Driscoll was published in 2014.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP]  "Before" is a short story by American writer Gael Baudino, written deliberately in a style similar to William Faulkner's: the foreword to the story says, "the sometimes strange syntax and editorial elisions are intentional in this homage to Faulkner." It concerns Greta Harlow, a young woman living in a Lee's Corners, a small town in fictional Oktibushubee County. She is raped and impregnated by Jimmy White, son of a prominent and wealthy businessman. An elderly wealthy woman, Mrs. Gavin, counsels her on how to abort the baby. The story ends with Greta debating whether to follow through with the abortion or not. Lee's Corners, Sophonsiba Gavin, and Greta's child, Magic, all play key parts in Baudino's most recent book, "The Borders of Life" (written as Gael Kathryns).
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP]  Ted Prior is an Australian children's author, best known for his works on the children's series of Grug books.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP]  The Life Before Us (1975; French: La vie devant soi) is a novel by French author Romain Gary who wrote it under the pseudonym of "Emile Ajar". It was originally published in English as Momo translated by Ralph Manheim, then re-published in 1986 as The Life Before Us. It won the Prix Goncourt in 1975.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP]  Before…12:01…and After is a collection of science fiction, fantasy, mystery and horror stories by author Richard A. Lupoff. It was released in 1996 by Fedogan & Bremer in an edition of 2,100 copies of which 100 were signed by the author and the artist. Many of the stories originally appeared in the magazines Pagoda, Fantasy and Science Fiction, Heavy Metal, Fantastic, Whispers, Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine, Detective Story Magazine, Hardboiled and Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP] Brave New World  Brave New World is a dystopian novel by English author Aldous Huxley, written in 1931 and published in 1932. Largely set in a futuristic World State, whose citizens are environmentally engineered into an intelligence-based social hierarchy, the novel anticipates huge scientific advancements in reproductive technology, sleep-learning, psychological manipulation and classical conditioning that are combined to make a dystopian society which is challenged by only a single individual: the story's protagonist. Huxley followed this book with a reassessment in essay form, "Brave New World Revisited" (1958), and with his final novel, "Island" (1962), the utopian counterpart. This novel is often compared to George Orwell's "Nineteen Eighty-Four" (1949).  In 1999, the Modern Library ranked "Brave New World" at number 5 on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century. In 2003, Robert McCrum, writing for "The Observer", included "Brave New World" chronologically at number 53 in "the top 100 greatest novels of all time", and the novel was listed at number 87 on The Big Read survey by the BBC. "Brave New World" has frequently been banned and challenged since its original publication. It has landed on the American Library Association list of top 100 banned and challenged books of the decade since the association began the list in 1990.<ref name=":2" /><ref name=":3" /><ref name=":4" />
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP] 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus  1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus is a 2005 non-fiction book by American author and science writer Charles C. Mann about the pre-Columbian Americas. It was the 2006 winner of the National Academies Communication Award for best creative work that helps the public understanding of topics in science, engineering or medicine.  The book presents recent research findings in different fields that suggest human populations in the Western Hemisphere—that is, the Indigenous peoples of the Americas—were more numerous, had arrived earlier, were more sophisticated culturally, and controlled and shaped the natural landscape to a greater extent than scholars had previously thought.  The author notes that, according to these findings, two of the first six independent centers of civilization arose in the Americas: the first, Norte Chico or "Caral-Supe", in present-day northern Peru; and that of Formative-era Mesoamerica in what is now southern Mexico.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP] J. D. Salinger  Jerome David Salinger (; January 1, 1919 January 27, 2010) was an American author best known for his 1951 novel "The Catcher in the Rye". Salinger got his start in 1940, before serving in World War II, by publishing several short stories in "Story" magazine. In 1948, his critically acclaimed story "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" appeared in "The New Yorker", which published much of his later work.  "The Catcher in the Rye" (1951) was an immediate popular success; Salinger's depiction of adolescent alienation and loss of innocence was influential, especially among adolescent readers. The novel was widely read and controversial, and its success led to public attention and scrutiny. Salinger became reclusive, publishing less frequently. He followed "Catcher" with a short story collection, "Nine Stories" (1953); "Franny and Zooey" (1961), a volume containing a novella and a short story; and a volume containing two novellas, "" (1963). Salinger's last published work, the novella "Hapworth 16, 1924", appeared in "The New Yorker" on June 19, 1965.  Afterward, Salinger struggled with unwanted attention, including a legal battle in the 1980s with biographer Ian Hamilton and the release in the late 1990s of memoirs written by two people close to him: Joyce Maynard, an ex-lover; and his daughter Margaret Salinger.
Who is the author of The World Before? [SEP] We Are the World  "We Are the World" is a charity single originally recorded by the supergroup USA for Africa in 1985. It was written by Michael Jackson and Lionel Richie and produced by Quincy Jones and Michael Omartian for the album "We Are the World". With sales in excess of 20 million copies, it is the eighth-bestselling physical single of all time.  Soon after the UK-based group Band Aid released "Do They Know It's Christmas?" in December 1984, the musician and activist Harry Belafonte began to think about an American benefit single for African famine relief. He enlisted fundraiser Ken Kragen to help bring the vision to reality. The duo contacted several musicians, and enlisted Jackson and Richie to write the song; they completed the writing seven weeks after the release of "Do They Know It's Christmas?", and only one night before "We Are the World"'s first recording session, on January 21, 1985. The historic event brought together some of the era's best-known musicians.  The song was released on March 7, 1985, as the first single from the album by Columbia Records. A worldwide commercial success, it topped music charts throughout the world and became the fastest-selling U.S. pop single in history. "We Are the World" received a Quadruple Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America, becoming the first single to be certified multi-platinum.  Awarded numerous honors—including three Grammy Awards, one American Music Award, and a People's Choice Award—the song was promoted with a critically received music video, a VHS, a special edition magazine, a simulcast, and several books, posters, and shirts. The promotion and merchandise helped "We Are the World" raise more than $63 million ($ million today) for humanitarian aid in Africa and the United States.  In January 2010, a magnitude 7.0 M earthquake devastated Haiti, leading another all-star cast of singers to remake the song. Titled "We Are the World 25 for Haiti", it was released as a single on February 12, 2010; proceeds from the record aided survivors in the impoverished country.  In March 2020, Richie suggested that a third version should be made to communicate a message of global solidarity during the COVID-19 pandemic and raise funds for aid efforts.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP]  S. I. Martin (born 24 April 1961) is a British author, historian, journalist and teacher, specialising in Black British history and literature. He wrote Britain's Slave Trade for Channel 4 Books to accompany the channel's television documentary Windrush, a novel, Incomparable World, charting the progress of three black exiles living in 18th-century London, and has written works of fiction for children to widen the consciousness and knowledge of the slave trade. Aside from authorship, Martin actively promotes the knowledge of Black British history through his work with London schools, borough councils, English Heritage, the National Maritime Museum, the Museum of London, the Museum of London Docklands, the Imperial War Museum and the Public Record Office.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP]  George Raymond Richard Martin (born George Raymond Martin; September 20, 1948), also known as GRRM, is an American novelist, screenwriter, television producer and short story writer. He is the author of the series of epic fantasy novels A Song of Ice and Fire, which were adapted into the Emmy Award-winning HBO series Game of Thrones (2011–2019). In 2005, Lev Grossman of Time called Martin "the American Tolkien", and in 2011, he was included on the annual Time 100 list of the most influential people in the world.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP]  T. Michael Martin (born May, 1984) is best known for his work as an American author of Young Adult fiction and as a YouTube creator and host. His debut novel, a YA thriller called The End Games, was released in May 2013. The End Games received critical praise from, among others, Voice of Youth Advocates magazine, who called it "a tale of terror worthy of the early, great Stephen King." It was also chosen by John Green as the best YA novel of Summer 2013, was named Booklist’s Top Youth Horror Novel of 2013, and earned Martin the top spot on Booklist’s "Insanely Talented First Novelists" list. Martin is also a YouTube vlogger, a YouTube Content Strategist employed at Google, and the co-creator and former showrunner and co-host of "How to Adult," a YouTube educational channel produced by Vlogbrothers Hank and John Green.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP]  Clancy Martin is a Canadian philosopher, novelist, and essayist. Martin's debut novel How to Sell (Farrar, Straus and Giroux) was a Times Literary Supplement "Best Book of 2009" (chosen by Craig Raine), and a "Best Book of 2009" for The Guardian, Publishers Weekly, The Kansas City Star. His writing has appeared in The New Yorker, Harper's Magazine, The New Republic, The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal, The London Review of Books, The Atlantic, The Times Literary Supplement, Lapham's Quarterly, Ethics, The Believer, The Journal of the History of Philosophy, GQ, Esquire, Details, Elle, Travel + Leisure, Bookforum, Vice, Men's Journal, and many other newspapers, magazines and journals, and has been translated into more than thirty languages. He is a regular contributor to Diane Williams' esteemed literary annual NOON. Martin is Professor of Philosophy at the University of Missouri in Kansas City, and is Professor of Business Ethics at the Henry W. Bloch School of Management (UMKC). He is also Professor of Philosophy at Ashoka University. Martin has also won a German Academic Exchange Service Fellowship and the Pushcart Prize. He is a Guggenheim Fellow, and is a contributing editor at Harper's Magazine.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP]  Gerald Martin (born 1944) is a critic of Latin American fiction. He is particularly known for his work on the Guatemalan author Miguel Ángel Asturias and Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez, both Nobel Prize for Literature winners. His 2008 book, Gabriel García Márquez. A Life, was the first full biography of García Márquez to be published in English.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP] George R. R. Martin  George Raymond Richard Martin<ref name="middlename" /> (born George Raymond Martin; September 20, 1948),<ref name="confirmation" /> also known as GRRM,<ref name="grrm" /> is an American novelist, screenwriter, television producer and short story writer. He is the author of the series of epic fantasy novels "A Song of Ice and Fire", which were adapted into the Emmy Award-winning HBO series "Game of Thrones" (2011–2019) and its prequel series "House of the Dragon" (2022–present). He also helped create the "Wild Cards" anthology series, and contributed worldbuilding for the 2022 video game "Elden Ring".  In 2005, Lev Grossman of "Time" called Martin "the American Tolkien", and in 2011, he was included on the annual "Time" 100 list of the most influential people in the world. He is a longtime citizen of Santa Fe, New Mexico, where he helped fund Meow Wolf and owns the Jean Cocteau Cinema. The city commemorates March 29 as George R. R. Martin Day.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP] Martin Amis  Martin Louis Amis (born 25 August 1949) is a British novelist, essayist, memoirist, and screenwriter. He is best known for his novels "Money" (1984) and "London Fields" (1989). He received the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for his memoir "Experience" and has been listed for the Booker Prize twice (shortlisted in 1991 for "Time's Arrow" and longlisted in 2003 for "Yellow Dog"). Amis served as the Professor of Creative Writing at the Centre for New Writing at the University of Manchester until 2011. In 2008, "The Times" named him one of the fifty greatest British writers since 1945.  Amis's work centres on the excesses of "late-capitalist" Western society, whose perceived absurdity he often satirises through grotesque caricature; he has been portrayed as a master of what "The New York Times" called "the new unpleasantness". Inspired by Saul Bellow and Vladimir Nabokov, as well as by his father Kingsley Amis, Amis himself has influenced many British novelists of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, including Will Self and Zadie Smith.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP] Martin Handford  Martin Handford (born 27 September 1956) is a British children's author and illustrator from London who gained worldwide fame in the mid-1980s with his "Where's Wally?" creation (known as "Where's Waldo?" in North America).
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP] Charles Martin (author)  Charles Martin (born November 3, 1969) is an author from the Southern United States.  Martin earned his B.A. in English from Florida State University and went on to receive an M.A. in Journalism and a Ph.D. in Communication from Regent University. He currently lives in Jacksonville, Florida with his wife and three sons.
Who is the author of Martin? [SEP] Malachi Martin  Malachi Brendan Martin (23 July 1921 – 27 July 1999), also known under the pseudonym of Michael Serafian, was an Irish-born American Traditionalist Catholic priest, biblical archaeologist, exorcist, palaeographer, professor, and prolific writer on the Roman Catholic Church.  Ordained as a Jesuit priest, Martin became Professor of Palaeography at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome. From 1958, he served as secretary to Cardinal Augustin Bea during preparations for the Second Vatican Council. Disillusioned by Vatican II, Martin asked to be released from certain aspects of his Jesuit vows in 1964 and moved to New York City.  Martin's 17 novels and non-fiction books were frequently critical of the Catholic hierarchy, who he believed had failed to act on what he called "the Third Prophecy" revealed by the Virgin Mary at Fátima.<ref name="Corley" /> His works included "The Scribal Character of The Dead Sea Scrolls" (1958) and "Hostage To The Devil" (1976) which dealt with Satanism, demonic possession, and exorcism. "The Final Conclave" (1978) was a warning against Soviet espionage in the Vatican.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]  The Soul of the World was first published by Princeton University Press in 1994.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]  In 2018, Brookmyre wrote The Way of All Flesh with his wife, Dr. Marisa Haetzman. It was published under the pseudonym Ambrose Parry. In 2020, the team followed up with The Art of Dying.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]  Maerth wrote the book in a Chinese monastery. It was first published in West Germany as Der Anfang war das Ende – Der Mensch entstand durch Kannibalismus (Econ Verlag GmbH, Düsseldorf und Wien, 1971), then translated by Judith Hayward and published in Great Britain by Michael Joseph, Ltd, 1973 and re-issued by Sphere Books, Ltd, London in 1974, ISBN: 0-7221-5712-6. It has been translated into eight languages.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]  The End of the Myth is a book written by Greg Grandin.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]  The Soul of the World is a 2014 book by the English philosopher Roger Scruton.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP]
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP] Soul (2020 film)  Soul is a 2020 American computer-animated comedy-drama film produced by Pixar Animation Studios for Walt Disney Pictures. It was directed by Pete Docter, co-directed by Kemp Powers, and produced by Dana Murray, from a screenplay by Docter, Powers, and Mike Jones. The film stars the voices of Jamie Foxx, Tina Fey, Graham Norton, Rachel House, Alice Braga, Richard Ayoade, Phylicia Rashad, Donnell Rawlings, Questlove, and Angela Bassett. It follows a pianist, Joe Gardner (Foxx), who is killed in an accident before his big break as a jazz musician and seeks to reunite his separated soul and body.  Docter conceived "Soul" in January 2016, examining the origins of human personalities and the concept of determinism. He pitched the idea about spacetime involving souls with personalities, during his first meeting with Jones. The film's producers consulted various jazz musicians, including Herbie Hancock and Terri Lyne Carrington, and animated its musical sequences using the sessions of musician Jon Batiste as a reference. Apart from Batiste's original jazz compositions, musicians Trent Reznor and Atticus Ross composed the film's score. Production on "Soul" lasted for four years on an approximate $150million budget. This was the first Pixar film to feature a black lead.  "Soul" premiered at the London Film Festival on October 11, 2020, and was scheduled to be theatrically released on June 19 and November 20. However, the feature was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "Soul" was released direct-to-streaming on Disney+ on December 25, 2020, and in theaters in countries without the streaming service. "Soul" was well-received by critics for its craftsmanship, story, characters, and musical score. Organizations like the National Board of Review and the American Film Institute named the film as one of the top ten films of 2020. "Soul" was nominated for three awards at the 93rd Academy Awards, winning two, and received numerous other accolades.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP] Alchemy of Souls  Alchemy of Souls () is a South Korean television series starring Lee Jae-wook, Jung So-min, Go Youn-jung, and Hwang Min-hyun. Written by the Hong sisters, it depicts the stories of young mages dealing with heaven and earth, and was directed by Park Joon-hwa.  It premiered on tvN on June 18, 2022, and airs every Saturday and Sunday at 21:10 (KST). It is also available for streaming on TVING and Netflix in selected regions.  The series is divided into two parts: Part 1 aired from June 18 to August 28, 2022 with 20 episodes, while Part 2 ("Alchemy of Souls: Light and Shadow") premiered on December 10, 2022.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP] The Dark End of the Street  "The Dark End of the Street" is a 1967 soul song, written by songwriters Dan Penn and Chips Moman and first recorded by James Carr.
Who is the author of The End of the Soul? [SEP] The Little Mermaid  "The Little Mermaid" () is a literary fairy tale written by the Danish author Hans Christian Andersen. The story follows the journey of a young mermaid who is willing to give up her life in the sea as a mermaid to gain a human soul. The tale was first published in 1837 as part of a collection of fairy tales for children. The original story has been a subject of multiple analyses by scholars such as Jacob Bøggild and Pernille Heegaard as well as the folklorist Maria Tatar. These analyses cover various aspects of the story from interpreting the themes to discussing why Andersen chose to write a tragic story with a happy ending. It has been adapted to various media, including musical theatre, anime, ballet, opera, and film. There is also a statue portraying the mermaid in Copenhagen, Denmark, where the story was written and first published.
Who is the author of Western? [SEP] Chris Enss: author of historical nonfiction that documents the forgotten women of the Old West. ; Zane Grey: author of many popular novels on the Old West ; Karl May: best selling German writer of all time, noted chiefly for wild west books set in the American West. ; Lorin Morgan-Richards: author of Old West titles and The Goodbye Family series. ; Winnetou: American-Indian hero of several novels written by Karl May.
Who is the author of Western? [SEP]  of the founding fathers and an early president. Elsa also served a term as president. In 1978 he was the first living author to be inducted into the Hall of Fame of Great Westerners in the National Cowboy & Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City. He was well known as the "Sage of Sapello" and the "Poet Lariat of New Mexico". Barker used to submit stories and poems to a bi-weekly Western pulp magazine called Ranch Romances. Sometime in the 1930s, he was asked by the editor to rewrite a story submitted by an old Texas cowhand named Jack Potter about his life of driving cattle. This started a collaboration between the two that lasted for years. Potter had
Who is the author of Western? [SEP]  published: the Enchanting series, the Diamond Library series, the Doctors and Nurses series, the Doctor Riley series, the Doctor Conway series, the Frontline series, the Raider series, the Commando series and the Patrol series. The western genre was the company's mainstay product and included the following series: American Wild West, Arizona Western, Big Horn Western, Bison Western, Bobcat Western, Chisholm Western, Classic Western, Cleveland Western, Condor Western, Coronado Western, Dollar Western, Fighting Western, Halliday Western, High Brand Western, Iron Horse Western, Legends of the West, Lobo Western, Loner Western, Peacemaker Western, Phoenix Western, Pinto Western, Rawhide Western, Santa Fe Western, Sierra Western, Sundown Western, Texas Western, The Avenger, Top Hand Western, Tumbleweed Western, and Winchester Western. Authors that contributed significantly to the western genre included Des Dunn, Roger Green, Keith Hetherington, Richard Wilkes-Hunter, Len Meares and Paul Wheelahan. Each author was published under a number of pseudonyms.
Who is the author of Western? [SEP]  In 1978, Nesbitt first piece, a short-story called "West of Dancing Rock," was published in the commercial magazine Far West. Between 1978 and 1994, several of Nesbitt's short fiction, academic articles, nonfiction, and poetry were published in a variety of academic journals, literary magazines, and commercial magazines. Nesbitt's first book, One-Eyed Cowboy Wild, was published as a hardcover western with Walker and Company in New York City in 1994. After three novels with Walker and Company, he moved into paperback original western novels for several years, and later returned to hardcover publishing with Five Star. Since the publication of his first novel, he has published several short story collections, contemporary novels, nonfiction works, poems, and song lyrics. Nesbitt's work has been commended for its realism, descriptive settings, development of characters, and unique blend of genres, such as his works in frontier fiction and niche noir fiction.
Who is the author of Western? [SEP]  the treachery and violence of the landscape. Wister's work was characterised by his intermeshing of romance conventions with social realism, incorporating ideas of class and heritage to reflect the concerns of his time It was within their work that the “Indian killing, heroine rescuing” cowboy came to be. Grey became known for his work in this genre (under the publisher, Harper's) and the hugely successful Western Romantic novel Riders of the Purple Sage (1912). The novel centres around a cowboy named Lassister and his relationship with his virginal heroine, Jane, set against the backdrop of the severe American frontier. According to Danney Goble, it
Who is the author of Western? [SEP] List of Western fiction authors  This is a list of some notable authors in the western fiction genre.  Note that some writers listed below have also written in other genres.
Who is the author of Western? [SEP] Zane Grey  Pearl Zane Grey (January 31, 1872 – October 23, 1939) was an American author and dentist. He is known for his popular adventure novels and stories associated with the Western genre in literature and the arts; he idealized the American frontier. "Riders of the Purple Sage" (1912) was his best-selling book.  In addition to the success of his printed works, his books have second lives and continuing influence adapted for films and television. His novels and short stories were adapted into 112 films, two television episodes, and a television series, "Dick Powell's Zane Grey Theatre".
Who is the author of Western? [SEP] Louis L'Amour  Louis Dearborn L'Amour (; né LaMoore; March 22, 1908 – June 10, 1988) was an American novelist and short story writer. His books consisted primarily of Western novels (though he called his work "frontier stories"); however, he also wrote historical fiction ("The Walking Drum"), science fiction ("Haunted Mesa"), non-fiction ("Frontier"), as well as poetry and short-story collections. Many of his stories were made into films. His books remain popular and most have gone through multiple printings. At the time of his death almost all of his 105 existing works (89 novels, 14 short-story collections, and two full-length works of nonfiction) were still in print, and he was "one of the world's most popular writers".
Who is the author of Western? [SEP]
Who is the author of Western? [SEP] All Quiet on the Western Front  All Quiet on the Western Front () is a novel by Erich Maria Remarque, a German veteran of World War I. The book describes the German soldiers' extreme physical and mental trauma during the war, and the detachment from civilian life felt by many upon returning home from the front.  The novel was first published in November and December 1928 in the German newspaper , and in book form in late January 1929. The book and its sequel, "The Road Back" (1930), were among the books banned and burned in Nazi Germany. "All Quiet on the Western Front" sold 2.5 million copies in 22 languages in its first 18 months in print.  In 1930, the book was adapted as an Academy Award-winning film of the same name, directed by Lewis Milestone. It was adapted again in 1979 by Delbert Mann, this time as a television film starring Richard Thomas and Ernest Borgnine; and again in 2022 with the same name, directed by Edward Berger.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP]  The Warriors of Spider is a science fiction novel by American writer W. Michael Gear. The first book in the Spider Trilogy, it was first published in 1988. The story is set roughly 600 years in the future, sometime between 2600 and 2700. This book contains much of the same themes as the Forbidden Borders trilogy of worshiping God though experience.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] Book #1: Gear, Michael W. (1988).  The Warriors of Spider.  DAW Books.  ISBN: 978-0886772871. ; Book #2: Gear, Michael W. (1989).  The Way of Spider.  DAW Books.  ISBN: 978-0886774387. ; Book #3: Gear, Michael W. (1989).  The Web of Spider.  DAW Books.  ISBN: 978-0886773564.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] Gear, Michael W. (1988). The Warriors of Spider.  DAW Books.  ISBN: 978-0886772871.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP]  The War of the Spider Queen series is written by six authors with two editors; Philip Athans and R.A. Salvatore. Authors like Richard Lee Byers and Philip Athans had already adventured into the world of Forgotten Realms with their writing while for others like Lisa Smedman and Thomas M. Reid, War of the Spider Queen was their first real foray into Forgotten Realms writing. On the back cover of each book is a quote from R.A. Salvatore, a short excerpt of his opinion on the author of the novel. Richard Lee Byers (Dissolution): "Richard Lee Byers is one of the most thoughtful and insightful authors
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP]  Conan and the Spider God is a fantasy novel by American writer L. Sprague de Camp featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Bantam Books in December 1980; later paperback editions were issued by Ace Books (April 1989, reprinted August 1991) and Tor Books (June 2003). The first hardcover edition was issued by Robert Hale in 1984, and the second by Tor Books in 2002. It was later gathered together with Conan the Swordsman and Conan the Liberator into the omnibus trade paperback collection Sagas of Conan (Tor Books, 2004). Conan and the Spider God is the only fictional Conan work credited solely to de Camp; his other Conan stories being collaborations with Howard (posthumously), Lin Carter, and Björn Nyberg. De Camp also wrote numerous non-fiction pieces about Conan and Howard, both alone and with others.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] The Warriors of Spider  The Warriors of Spider is a science fiction novel by American writer W. Michael Gear. The first book in the Spider Trilogy, it was first published in 1988. The story is set roughly 600 years in the future, sometime between 2600 and 2700.  This book contains much of the same themes as the Forbidden Borders trilogy of worshiping God though experience.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] Spider-Verse  "Spider-Verse" is a 2014–15 comic book storyline published by Marvel Comics. It features multiple alternative versions of Spider-Man that had appeared in various media, all under attack by Morlun and his family, the Inheritors. The event was touted as including every single living spider-powered individual created up to that point, while also introducing many new ones. There were several notable exceptions however, such as the Spider-Man from the television series "The Spectacular Spider-Man" unable to appear due to copyright restrictions.  The comic book series received generally positive reviews. Following the conclusion of the event in "Amazing Spider-Man" #14, several characters introduced in it such as Spider-Gwen, the Spider-Woman of Earth-65, were featured in titles of their own. Several of the Spider-Men from this event reunited for the second volume of "Spider-Verse" set during the "Secret Wars" and continued to operate together in the "Web Warriors" series. The 2017 event "Venomverse" was structured in a similar way to Spider-Verse, featuring alternative versions of Venom instead. In 2018, a direct sequel to "Spider-Verse" titled "Spider-Geddon" was released. A conclusion to the "Spider-Verse" storyline—titled "End of the Spider-Verse"—is scheduled to begin later in 2022, following the release of the "Edge of Spider-Verse" series in August 2022 which introduces even more new alternate versions of Spider-Man.<ref name=":2" />  The idea of bringing together alternate versions of Spider-Man was also explored in various video games and the "Ultimate Spider-Man" animated series, with the 2018 animated film "" and its sequels "" (2023) and "Beyond the Spider-Verse" (2024), serving as a loose adaptation of this story arc. The 2021 Marvel Cinematic Universe film "" also took inspiration from this idea, featuring all three live-action movie versions of Peter Parker.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] Spider-Woman (Jessica Drew)  Spider-Woman (Jessica Drew) is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character first appeared in "Marvel Spotlight" #32 (cover-dated February 1977), and 50 issues of an ongoing series titled "Spider-Woman" followed. At its conclusion, she was killed, and though later resurrected, she fell into disuse, supplanted by other characters using the name Spider-Woman.   Her origin story relates that she was a brainwashed spy working for HYDRA. Writer Brian Michael Bendis added Spider-Woman to the roster of The New Avengers, which leads to her involvement in the "Secret Invasion" storyline. In 2009, the character received her second self-titled limited series, written by Bendis, which ran for seven issues. As part of the 2014 "Spider-Verse" event, Spider-Woman began her third ongoing series, written by Dennis Hopeless. The series was interrupted by Marvel's 2015 "Secret Wars" event, and ended with issue #10. "Spider-Woman" was relaunched several months later with a new issue #1, still written by Hopeless, which continued the story from the previous volume.  Jessica Drew has been described as one of Marvel's most notable and powerful female heroes.<ref name=":0" /><ref name=":1" /><ref name=":2" /><ref name=":3" /><ref name=":4" /> She will make her cinematic debut in "", voiced by Issa Rae.
Who is the author of The Warriors of Spider? [SEP] Spider-Ham  Spider-Ham (Peter Porker) is a fictional superhero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is an anthropomorphic pig and is a cartoon animal parody version of Spider-Man. He was created by editor Larry Hama, Tom DeFalco and Mark Armstrong.  He first appeared in the one-shot humor comic book "Marvel Tails Starring Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham" (November 1983), which was then followed by an ongoing bi-monthly series, "Peter Porker, the Spectacular Spider-Ham", under Marvel's Star Comics imprint, with both titles edited by Hama. The character existed on Earth-8311, which was a universe populated by anthropomorphic parody versions of the Marvel superheroes and supervillains. Spider-Ham made his feature film debut in "" (2018), voiced by John Mulaney.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP]  Homecoming is a 1981 young adult novel by American children's author Cynthia Voigt. It is the first of seven novels in the Tillerman Cycle. It was adapted into a television film.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] 1981, USA, Atheneum Publishers ; 1984, UK, Collins ; 1999, UK, Collins Modern Classics
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP]  Homecoming, set around the late 1970s, tells the story of four siblings aged between six and thirteen, whose mother abandons them one summer afternoon in their car next to a Connecticut shopping mall during an aborted road trip to a family member in Bridgeport. Realizing that their mother is not coming back, and that they cannot go home (as their father walked out before the youngest child was born), the children travel together, mostly on foot, trying to reach Bridgeport. There, they hope to find their missing mother at the home of a relative they have never met. The children
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP]  "The Homecoming" is a 2011 science fiction short story by American writer Mike Resnick. It was first published in Asimov's Science Fiction.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP]  she spearheaded the creation of Gaither Family Resources in Alexandria, Indiana, and currently serves as co-owner and managing director. In 2002, Gaither launched Homecoming: The Magazine, and she currently acts as writer, interviewer, and contributing editor. In 2000, Bill and Gloria were named Christian Songwriters of the Century by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP), an award based on the songwriters who have had the most songs recorded over the past 100 years. Gloria is the recipient of seven honorary doctorate degrees, and she is the author of more than 40 books including 20 children's books.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] Homecoming (novel)  Homecoming is a 1981 young adult novel by American children's author Cynthia Voigt. It is the first of seven novels in the Tillerman Cycle. It was adapted into a television film.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] The Homecoming  The Homecoming is a two-act play written in 1964 by Harold Pinter and first published in 1965. Its premières in London (1965) and New York (1967) were both directed by Sir Peter Hall. The original Broadway production won the 1967 Tony Award for Best Play. Its 40th-anniversary Broadway production at the Cort Theatre was nominated for a 2008 Tony Award for "Best Revival of a Play".  Set in North London, the play has six characters. Five of these are men who are related to each other: Max, a retired butcher; his brother Sam, a chauffeur; and Max's three sons: Teddy, a philosophy professor in the United States; Lenny, a pimp who only makes discreet references to his "occupation" and his clientele and flats in the city (London); and Joey, a brute training to become a professional boxer and who works in demolition.   There is one woman, Ruth, Teddy's wife. The play concerns Teddy's and Ruth's "homecoming," which has distinctly different symbolic and thematic implications. In the initial productions and the film of the same name, Pinter's first wife, Vivien Merchant, played Ruth.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] Spider-Man: Homecoming  Spider-Man: Homecoming is a 2017 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, co-produced by Columbia Pictures and Marvel Studios, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is the second Spider-Man film reboot and the 16th film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Jon Watts, from a screenplay by the writing teams of Jonathan Goldstein and John Francis Daley, Watts and Christopher Ford, and Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers. Tom Holland stars as Peter Parker / Spider-Man, alongside Michael Keaton, Jon Favreau, Gwyneth Paltrow, Zendaya, Donald Glover, Jacob Batalon, Laura Harrier, Tony Revolori, Bokeem Woodbine, Tyne Daly, Marisa Tomei, and Robert Downey Jr. In the film, Peter Parker tries to balance high school life with being Spider-Man while facing the Vulture (Keaton).  In February 2015, Marvel Studios and Sony reached a deal to share the film rights for Spider-Man, integrating the character into the established MCU. The following June, Holland was cast as the title character, and Watts was hired to direct. This was followed shortly by the hiring of Daley and Goldstein. In April 2016, the film's title was revealed, along with additional cast, including Downey in his MCU role of Tony Stark / Iron Man. Principal photography began in June 2016 at Pinewood Atlanta Studios in Fayette County, Georgia, and continued in Atlanta, Los Angeles, and New York City. The other screenwriters were revealed during filming, which concluded in Berlin in October 2016. The production team made efforts to differentiate the film from previous Spider-Man films.  "Spider-Man: Homecoming" premiered in Hollywood on June 28, 2017, and was released in the United States on July 7, as part of of the MCU. "Homecoming" grossed over $880million worldwide, becoming the second-most-successful Spider-Man film and the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2017. It received praise for the light tone, its focus on Parker's high school life, and the performances, particularly of Holland and Keaton. Two sequels have been released: "" (2019) and "" (2021). A new trilogy of live-action films from Sony and Marvel Studios is in development.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] Operation Homecoming (book)  Operation Homecoming was a United States National Endowment for the Arts–Department of Defense therapeutic writing program for returning war veterans. It resulted in a book and television documentary.
Who is the author of Homecoming? [SEP] John Bradshaw (author)  John Elliot Bradshaw (June 29, 1933 – May 8, 2016) was an American educator, counselor, motivational speaker, and author who hosted a number of PBS television programs on topics such as addiction, recovery, codependency, and spirituality. Bradshaw was active in the self-help movement, and was credited with popularizing such ideas as the "wounded inner child" and the dysfunctional family. In promotional materials, interviews, and reviews of his work, he was often referred to as a theologian.  Bradshaw was the author of six books, several of which held top slots as "New York Times" bestsellers; his book "Homecoming" reached No. 1. During the 1980s and 1990s he hosted a number of PBS television broadcasts based on his books. He served on the board of directors of the Palmer Drug Abuse Program and as the national director of the John Bradshaw Center at Ingleside Hospital in Los Angeles, California.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]  Conan and the Amazon is a fantasy novel by American writer John Maddox Roberts, featuring Robert E. Howard's  sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Tor Books in April 1995. It was reprinted by Tor in April 1999.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]  Amazon Adventure is a 1949 children's novel by the Canadian-born American author Willard Price featuring his "Adventure" series characters, Hal and Roger Hunt. It depicts an expedition to the Amazon River to capture animals for their father's wildlife collection business. Initially published by John Day in the US, the UK edition was published two years later by Jonathan Cape.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]  The Amazon (Вои′тельница; translated also as The Warrior Woman) is a short novel by Nikolai Leskov, first published in the April (vol.1; No.7) 1866 issue of Otechestvennye Zapiski, with a dedication to the painter Mikhaylo Mikeshin whom the author was friends at the time. It was included into the collection Novelets, Sketches and Stories by M.Stebnitsky (vol. 1, 1967) and later into the Works by N.S. Leskov (1889), in a slightly revised version. The epigraph, "The whole of my life has been a set of lessons, of which my death is but another one," comes from the lyrical drama Lucius (Люций) by Apollon Maykov (Seneka's words in part 1 of it).
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP] . An account of the life of Roger Casement and in particular his investigation into the atrocities against the indigenous tribes perpetrated by those engaged in rubber harvesting. . An account of the life of Roger Casement and in particular his investigation into the atrocities against the indigenous tribes perpetrated by those engaged in rubber harvesting.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]  adapted by Saunders himself in the screenplay of the film Amazons (1986). In 2009 he released The Trail of Bohu, the third title in the now ongoing Imaro series, through the Sword & Soul Media storefront. In 2009 he released The Naama War the fourth and latest Imaro novel through Lulu. In 2012, he released Dossouye: The Dancers of Mulukau, the second novel of Dossouye. In 2017 Saunders released "Nyumbani Tales", a collection of Nyumbani stories that have not yet been republished, among them "Katisa," about Imaro's mother. In 2018, he published a story of Imaro in the anthology The Mighty Warriors, edited by Robert M. Price.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP] Criticism of Amazon  Amazon.com has drawn criticism from multiple sources, where the ethics of certain business practices and policies have been drawn into question. Amazon has faced numerous allegations of anti-competitive or monopolistic behavior, as well as criticisms of their treatment of workers and consumers. Concerns have frequently been raised regarding the availability or unavailability of products and services on Amazon platforms, as Amazon is considered a monopoly due to its size.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP] Goodreads  Goodreads is an American social cataloging website and a subsidiary of Amazon that allows individuals to search its database of books, annotations, quotes, and reviews. Users can sign up and register books to generate library catalogs and reading lists. They can also create their own groups of book suggestions, surveys, polls, blogs, and discussions. The website's offices are located in San Francisco.  Goodreads was founded in December 2006 and launched in January 2007 by Otis Chandler and Elizabeth Khuri Chandler. In December 2007, the site had 650,000 members and 10,000,000 books had been added. By July 2012, the site reported 10 million members, 20 million monthly visits, and thirty employees. On March 28, 2013, Amazon announced its acquisition of Goodreads, and by July 23, 2013, Goodreads announced their user base had grown to 20 million members.  By July 2019, the site had 90 million members.
Who is the author of The Amazon? [SEP] Chuck Tingle  Chuck Tingle is a pseudonymous author, primarily of niche gay erotica. The stories mainly take the form of monster erotica, featuring romantic and sexual encounters with dinosaurs, imaginary creatures, anthropomorphized inanimate objects, and even abstract concepts. He self-publishes his works through Amazon, primarily as ebooks, but also as paperbacks and audiobooks. In 2016, his short story "Space Raptor Butt Invasion" was a finalist for the Hugo Awards, the result of a coordinated campaign which he disavowed. The following year he was a finalist for the Hugo for Best Fan Writer.
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]  O dia das calças roladas is a Capeverdean novel published in 1982 by Germano Almeida. The book was first published on Ilhéu Editora. The story is about an account of a strike that happened on the island of Santo Antão.
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]  His first work was O dia das calças roladas which was about an account of a strike on the island of Santo Antão, it was first written in 1982 and was published in 1983. He wrote the novel The Last Will and Testament of Senhor da Silva Araújo which was about businessman turned philanthropist who leaves his fortune to his illegitimate daughter. As independence comes he is shown up to be a relic of colonialism. A motion picture would be made about the novel in 1997 and was directed by the Portuguese director Francisco Manso, it won the award at the Brazil's largest film festival, the Festival de Cinema de Gramado. He later published Dona Pura e os Camaradas de Abril in 1999, a story about the 1974 Carnation revolution in Portugal. Cabo Verde – Viagem pela história das ilhas, published in 2003 was his historical presentation of all the nine inhabited islands that constitute Cape Verde. His recently published novels and works were Eva in 2006 and De Monte Cara vê-se o mundo in 2014.
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]  She adopted the pseudonym of Isabel da Nóbrega, and published several works, including plays, screenplays for film and television, novels, and other works under this name. She was a member of PEN Portugal, and the Portuguese Association of Writers. In 1974, she was one of the organizers of the 1st Portuguese Writers' Congress. Her first major published work was a novel, Os Anjos e os Homens (The Angels and Men) in 1952. It was followed by Viver com os outros (Living with others) in 1964, her best-known work. Her other books include Solo para gravador (1973), Cartas de Amor de Gente Famosa (2009). She also wrote a number of books for children, including Rama the Blue Elephant (1971). In 1954, her play O Filho Pródigo ou o Amor Difícil was produced at the Teatro Nacional D. Maria II by Rey Colaço-Robles Monteiro. Several of her other plays
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]  Cucha Carvalhelho; the play was performed at Teatro da Trindade, Lisbon, and Cineteatro Louletano in 2011. On the 30th anniversary of the publication of O Dia dos Prodígios the Council of Loulé organised a commemorative exhibition of her work entitled 30 Anos de Escrita Publicada [30 Years of Published Writing]. The exhibition was open to the public between November 2010 and March 2011, during which a series of talks, discussions and guided tours took place. In 2005 Lídia Jorge became France Commandeur de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. In 2006 she attended a ceremony in Germany where she was awarded the first ever International Albatros Literature Prize by the Günter Grass Foundation
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP] 2008: Murilo Antônio de Carvalho (Brazil), for O Rastro do Jaguar. ; 2009: João Paulo Borges Coelho (Mozambique), for O Olho de Hertzog. ; 2010: not assigned ; 2011: João Ricardo Pedro (Portugal), with the book O teu rosto será o último. ; 2012: Nuno Camarneiro (Portugal), for Debaixo de algum céu. ; 2013: Gabriela Ruivo Trindade, Uma Outra Voz. ; 2014: Afonso Reis Cabral (Portugal), O Meu Irmão. ; 2015: António Tavares (Portugal), O Coro dos Defuntos. ; 2016: not assigned ; 2017: João Pinto Coelho (Portugal), Os Loucos da Rua Mazur. ; 2018: Itamar Vieira Júnior (Brazil), Torto Arado.
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP] Germano Almeida  Germano Almeida (; born 31 July 1945) is a Cape Verdean author and lawyer.
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP]
Who is the author of O dia das calças roladas? [SEP] Literature of Cape Verde  The Literature of Cape Verde is among the most important in West Africa, it is the second richest in West Africa after Mali and modern day Mauritania. It is also the richest in the Lusophone portion of Africa. Most works are written in Portuguese, but there are also works in Capeveredean Creole, French and notably English.  Capeverdean literature has long been known worldwide through the writing of poet Eugénio Tavares. Also Manuel Lopes, Baltasar Lopes da Silva, better known as Osvaldo Alcantarâ and Jorge Barbosa, the three would later found a review "Claridade" in 1936 which is related to Cape Verdean independence.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP]  and Pennsylvania. In 2020 he started serving as consulting minister to the historic First Unitarian Church of Los Angeles. Ford is co-editor of The Transient and Permanent in Liberal Religion, and is the author of This Very Moment: A Brief Introduction to Buddhism and Zen for Unitarian Universalists, both published by Skinner House Books. He is also the author of a study of Zen teachers and communities in North America, ''Zen Master Who? A Guide to the People and Stories of Zen, the co-editor of The Book of Mu: Essential Writings on Zen’s Most Important Koan, and the author of If You're Lucky, Your Heart Will Break: Field Notes from a Zen Life'' from Wisdom Publications.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP]  The Refuge Collection project uses video content created by contributor Brian Craddock, as well as promotional audio and video by Nexus Concept Studios. Dillon and contributors Kaaron Warren and Lee Murray were interviewed for the online radio show Chatting With Sherri, which aired on 6 April 2016. Audio adaptations of some of the stories have been released.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP]  standalone, especially the earlier tales, with the notable exception of Dillon's own six-part The Empath's Tale and The Priest's Tale (co-written with David Allen). As a shared world, the characters, events and places are re-used by several of the authors to reveal an overarching plot. The Refuge Collection explores themes such as corruption, ambition, survival and loss. More importantly, the authors are encouraged to highlight themes central to the plight of refugees: isolation, displacement, confusion, family trauma, upheaval, bigotry, racism, end exclusion. Dillon has said of the project: "As with any diverse society, our Refugeans have not only brought their beliefs with them, but also their gods, and their demons".
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP]  Shared Visions is a book sharing the voices of persons with a visual impairment. The book was published by Danish Association of the Blind (“Dansk Blindesamfund") in autumn 2012.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP]  In 2020 Mendonça published the book Wisdom: Now and Always. It is a study of the ways in which we define, experience, value and cultivate wisdom. Through interviews with 25 writers, teachers, scientists, artists and activists, the book explores wisdom from a wide variety of angles. It concludes that wisdom is something fundamentally benevolent, based in receptivity and reciprocity. The 25 contributors are: Prof. Failautusi Avegalio Jr., Isabelle Axelsson, David Bailey, Lyn Buchanan, Rachel Corby, Jane Davidson, David Eby, Prof. Michel Ferrari, Prof. Herbert Girardet, Randy Hayes, David Krieger, Satish Kumar, Kim Langbecker, Reuben Langdon, Frances Moore Lappe, Francesc Miralles, Juan Pablo Orrego, Prof. Tiffany Patterson, Dr. Elisabet Sahtouris, Mollie Semple, Dr. Vandana Shiva, Sulak Sivaraksa, Wendy Stephenson, Julie Taylor and Mike Wallis. They have more than 1,500 years of collective life experience, across three generations. They represent a wide range of professional backgrounds, including education, governance, the military, science, industry, the arts, journalism, activism and nonprofit, religion and spirituality. Between them they have traveled to most of the countries of the world. They come from 11 nations, on five continents, and speak at least 10 languages. They have produced around 200 books, which have sold millions of copies.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP] Hank Wesselman  Henry Barnard Wesselman (1941-2021) was an American anthropologist known primarily for his "Spiritwalker" trilogy of spiritual memoirs. In them, he claims to have been in contact with "Nainoa", an ethnic Hawaiian kahuna (shaman) living some 5,000 years in our future. The books envision the imminent collapse of Western civilization as a result of global warming. On a more positive note, Wesselman perceives an ongoing "wide-spread spiritual reawakening" which he dubs the "Modern Mystical Movement."  Together with his wife Jill Kuykendall, Wesselman led shamanic training workshops for the Omega Institute and other, similar institutions. They divided their time between northern California, Oregon, and Captain Cook, Hawaii. Hank died peacefully near his home in Hawaii on February 15, 2021 after a short illness. His beloved Jill was at his side. He was 79 years old.
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP] Scripture" (), Spiritwarrior Publishing Company, 1981 "Jesus Two: The Life and Wisdom of Jesus" (), Spiritwarrior Publishing Company, 1982 James Olson (author) James Olson (born Chet Myles Olson; June 27, 1943) is an American philosopher and author. A generalist, his primary focus is on the effects of functional lateralization on consciousness and human behavior. Olson is the author of "The Whole-Brain Path to Peace" (Origin Press, 2011), a book that seeks to explain human behavior by focusing on mental perspective, the initial stage of perception, rather than on the whole of perception—the latter being the more common approach to understanding
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP] their own lives. Shared Visions is edited by John Heilbrunn, Vice-President of Danish Association of the Blind, Denmark, as a tribute to persons within the blindness movement around the World and a celebration of the centennial of the Danish organization of the blind. Shared Visions Shared Visions is a book sharing the voices of persons with a visual impairment. The book was published by Danish Association of the Blind (“Dansk Blindesamfund") in autumn 2012. The book consists of 16 interviews with persons who are blind or have low vision from all continents of the world including Australia, Fiji, Iceland, Japan
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP] including George Adamski, George Van Tassel, Daniel Fry, George King and many others. Mr Bethurum made it known that the space people had asked him to consider creating a place of learning for those who were interested in considering the possibility of extraterrestrial intelligent life, with Mr Bethurum as facilitator. The "Sanctuary of Thought", a philosophical group, was subsequently created near Prescott, Arizona. Mr Bethurum claimed to possess physical evidence such as unique items given to him by Captain Aura Rhanes. Some of Bethurum's later books include "The Voice of the Planet Clarion" (1957), "Facing Reality" (1958), and "The People
Who is the author of Visionseeker: Shared Wisdom from the Place of Refuge? [SEP] and in 2006 began splitting their time between New York and Texas. They had four children and eleven grandchildren. Wilkerson claimed to have received a vision in 1973 regarding the future of the United States, subsequently published in a book called "The Vision". Some of the subject areas of this prophecy were: "Worldwide recession caused by economic confusion"; "Nature having labor pains"; "A flood of filth and a baptism of dirt in America"; "Rebellion in the home"; and "A persecution madness against truly Spirit filled Christians who love Jesus Christ". On March 7, 2009 Wilkerson posted a message to his
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP]  Out of This World (1993) is the first fantasy novel in The Worlds of Shadow trilogy by Lawrence Watt-Evans.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP]  Out of This World is a 1945 American romantic comedy film directed by Hal Walker and starring Eddie Bracken, Veronica Lake and Diana Lynn. The picture was a satire on the Frank Sinatra "bobby soxer" cult.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP]  The Allmusic site awarded the album 3 stars.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] Out of This World (1993) ; In the Empire of Shadow (1995) ; The Reign of the Brown Magician (1996) The Worlds of Shadow series:
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP]   Henry Edward Sutton (born 8 September 1963) is a crime novelist. The author of nine works of fiction including My Criminal World (2013) and Get Me Out of Here (2011), he teaches Creative Writing at the University of East Anglia, where he is a Senior Lecturer and the co-director of the Master of Arts in Prose Fiction UEA Creative Writing Course. In 2004, he won the J.B.Priestley Award.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] Out of This World (Swift novel)  Out of this World is the fourth novel by English author Graham Swift published in 1988 by Viking in the UK and by Poseidon Press in the US.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] The Kingdom of This World  The Kingdom of This World () is a novel by Cuban author Alejo Carpentier, published in 1949 in his native Spanish and first translated into English in 1957. A work of historical fiction, it tells the story of Haiti before, during, and after the Haitian Revolution led by Toussaint Louverture, as seen by its central character, Ti Noel, who serves as the novel's connecting thread. Carpentier's work has been influenced by his multi-cultural experience and his passion for the arts, as well as by authors such as Miguel de Cervantes. The novel stems from the author's desire to retrace the roots and history of the New World, and is embedded with what Carpentier calls "lo real maravilloso" or "the marvelous real"—a concept he introduced to the world of literature (not to be confused with magical realism).  Throughout the novel, varying perceptions of reality that arise due to cultural differences between its characters are emphasized and contrasted. Carpentier explores hybridization, nature, voodoo, ethnicity, history and destiny, confusion, violence, and sexuality in a style that blends history with fiction and uses repetition to emphasize the cyclical nature of events. The novel was largely well-received with much attention paid to Carpentier's inclusion of magic realism and "The Kingdom of This World" has been described as an important work in the development of this genre in Caribbean and Latin American literature. However, some technical aspects of his style have been ignored by the academic community, and the novel's narrative organization has been criticized.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive (novel)  I'll Never Get Out of This World Alive is Steve Earle's first novel, entitled after a Hank Williams song; Earle released an album of the same name, also in 2011.  It was published the spring of 2011. The novel is set in San Antonio, Texas in 1963, and tells the story of a defrocked doctor and morphine addict. The doctor makes a living by performing illegal abortions and is haunted by the ghost of Hank Williams, with whom he was traveling when Williams died of an overdose. The novel is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] Out of This World (Watt-Evans novel)  Out of This World (1993) is the first fantasy novel in The Worlds of Shadow trilogy by Lawrence Watt-Evans.
Who is the author of Out of This World? [SEP] Alfred Bester  Alfred Bester (December 18, 1913 – September 30, 1987) was an American science fiction author, TV and radio scriptwriter, magazine editor and scripter for comic strips and comic books. He is best remembered for his science fiction, including "The Demolished Man", winner of the inaugural Hugo Award in 1953.  Science fiction author Harry Harrison wrote, "Alfred Bester was one of the handful of writers who invented modern science fiction."  Shortly before his death, the Science Fiction Writers of America (SFWA) named Bester its ninth Grand Master, presented posthumously in 1988.<ref name=SFWA/> The Science Fiction and Fantasy Hall of Fame inducted him in 2001.<ref name=sfhof-old/>
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP]  Stand By Your Screen was a 1968 play written by Roy Minton and directed by Alan Clarke.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP]  First broadcast London Weekend Television 8 December 1968. It was 52 mins long.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP]  Through A Screen Darkly was published by Regal Books in February 2007, and earned a "Starred Review" from Publishers Weekly. In the book, Overstreet shows how films from many different worldviews can offer pieces of a larger truth. Filmmaker Darren Aronofsky has said of the book that it is "Inspirational.... Sometimes all of us forget that love for movies, that internal spark inside us that movies lit, and your book is going to remind many of us about it." The book is used as a textbook at Seattle Pacific University, Fuller Seminary, Bryan College, and other schools.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP]  The show was critically panned by television critics.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP]  Small Screen, Big Picture: A Writer's Guide to the TV Business is a nonfiction book about the entertainment business written by Chad Gervich. It covers the process of entering the TV writing profession and earning a living as a TV writer. It was published November 25, 2008, by Three Rivers Press, and is currently published by Penguin Random House.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP] The Stand  The Stand is a post-apocalyptic dark fantasy novel written by American author Stephen King and first published in 1978 by Doubleday. The plot centers on a deadly pandemic of weaponized influenza and its aftermath, in which the few surviving humans gather into factions that are each led by a personification of either good or evil and seem fated to clash with each other. King started writing the story in February 1975, seeking to create an epic in the spirit of "The Lord of the Rings". The book was difficult for him to write because of the large number of characters and storylines.  In 1990, "The Stand" was reprinted as a "Complete and Uncut Edition". King restored over 400 pages from texts that were initially reduced from his original manuscript, revised the order of the chapters, shifted the novel's setting from 1980 to 10 years forward, and accordingly corrected a number of cultural references. The "Complete and Uncut Edition" of "The Stand" is Stephen King's longest stand-alone work at 1,152 pages, surpassing his 1,138-page novel "It". The book has sold 4.5 million copies.  "The Stand" was highly appreciated by reviewers and is considered one of King's best novels. It has been included in lists of the best books of all time by "Rolling Stone", "Time", the Modern Library, Amazon and the BBC. An eponymous miniseries based on the novel was broadcast on ABC in 1994. From 2008 to 2012, Marvel Comics published a series of comics written by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa and illustrated by Mike Perkins. Another miniseries debuted on CBS All Access in December 2020, and finished airing in February 2021.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP] The Stand (2020 miniseries)  The Stand is an American post-apocalyptic fantasy television miniseries, based on the 1978 novel of the same name by Stephen King and a remake to the 1994 adaptation. The plot centers on a pandemic resulting from a mishap at a military biological research station which allows the escape of a lethal strain of influenza. After the pandemic kills almost the entire world population, the few survivors are drawn to one of two figures, Randall Flagg and Mother Abagail, setting up a final good-vs-evil confrontation. In the novel's dedication to his wife, King describes it as a "dark tale of the ageless struggle between good and evil." The adaptation alters details (gender, race, age, etc.) of some of the main characters, moves the setting to modern-day 21st century, and features a new final episode written by King, making it the third variation of the story's conclusion. The first episode was released on Paramount+ on December 17, 2020.<ref name="SeriesPremiere"/> The adaptation received mixed reviews.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP] Stand-your-ground law  A stand-your-ground law (sometimes called "line in the sand" or "no duty to retreat" law) provides that people may use deadly force when they reasonably believe it to be necessary to defend against certain violent crimes (right of self-defense). Under such a law, people have no duty to retreat before using deadly force in self-defense, so long as they are in a place where they are lawfully present. The exact details vary by jurisdiction.  The alternative to stand your ground is "duty to retreat". In jurisdictions that implement a duty to retreat, even a person who is unlawfully attacked (or who is defending someone who is unlawfully attacked) may not use deadly force if it is possible to instead avoid the danger with complete safety by retreating.  Even areas that impose a duty to retreat generally follow the "castle doctrine", under which people have no duty to retreat when they are attacked in their homes, or (in some places) in their vehicles or workplaces. The castle doctrine and "stand-your-ground" laws provide legal defenses to persons who have been charged with various use of force crimes against persons, such as murder, manslaughter, aggravated assault, and illegal discharge or brandishing of weapons, as well as attempts to commit such crimes.  Whether a jurisdiction follows stand-your-ground or duty-to-retreat is just one element of its self-defense laws. Different jurisdictions allow deadly force against different crimes. All American states allow it against deadly force, great bodily injury, and likely kidnapping or rape; some also allow it against threat of robbery and burglary.  A 2020 RAND Corporation review of existing research concluded that "There is supportive evidence that stand-your-ground laws are associated with increases in firearm homicides and moderate evidence that they increase the total number of homicides."
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP] Stand by Me (Ben E. King song)  "Stand by Me" is a song originally performed in 1961 by American singer-songwriter Ben E. King and written by him, along with Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, who together used the pseudonym Elmo Glick. According to King, the title is derived from, and was inspired by, a spiritual written by Sam Cooke and J. W. Alexander called "Stand by Me Father," recorded by the Soul Stirrers with Johnnie Taylor singing lead. The third line of the second verse of the former work derives from Psalm 46:2c/3c.  It was featured on the soundtrack of the 1986 film of the same name, and a corresponding music video, featuring King along with actors River Phoenix and Wil Wheaton, was released to promote the film. It was also featured in a 1987 European commercial of Levi's 501 jeans, contributing to greater success in Europe. In 2012, its royalties were estimated to have topped $22.8 million (£17 million), making it the sixth highest-earning song as of its era. 50% of the royalties were paid to King. In 2015, King's original version was inducted into the National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress, as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant", just under five weeks before his death. Later in the year, the 2015 lineup of the Drifters recorded it in tribute.  There have been over 400 recorded versions of the song, performed by many artists, notably Otis Redding, John Lennon, Cassius Clay (later Muhammad Ali), 4 the Cause, Tracy Chapman, musicians of the Playing for Change project, Florence and the Machine, and the Kingdom Choir. A-League club Melbourne Victory FC play this song before home matches, while fans raise their scarves above their heads and sing the lyrics.
Who is the author of Stand By Your Screen? [SEP] The Scarlet Letter  The Scarlet Letter: A Romance is a work of historical fiction by American author Nathaniel Hawthorne, published in 1850. Set in the Puritan Massachusetts Bay Colony during the years 1642 to 1649, the novel tells the story of Hester Prynne, who conceives a daughter with a man to whom she is not married and then struggles to create a new life of repentance and dignity. Containing a number of religious and historic allusions, the book explores themes of legalism, sin and guilt.  "The Scarlet Letter" was one of the first mass-produced books in the United States. It was popular when first published and novelist D. H. Lawrence called it a "perfect work of the American imagination".
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP]  Sandy is the third book written by Alice Hegan Rice, and was the second best-selling novel in the United States in 1905. It was originally published in serial form in The Century Magazine from December 1904 through May 1905, and first appeared in novel form in April 1905. The novel is based on the boyhood stories of S. S. McClure, publisher of McClure's magazine, and his upbringing in Ireland and early struggles in the United States.
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP]  .
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP]  Sandy Landsman is a children's book author. He was born in Great Neck, New York. He moved to the city to attend Columbia University, where he majored in English. During his senior year, he began entertaining at children's parties as a musical clown. This became a career for him, along with a cable children's show which he wrote and starred in. He is the author of the children's books The Gadget Factor (1984), and Castaways on Chimp Island (1986).
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP]  The narrator of the novel is Robert "Sandy" Sanderling, a professor of American literature with a degree from Harvard, who is planning his retirement speech. Looking back over his life, he feels that he has accomplished very little and his one novel, Aftermath was not the book he had hoped it would be; his marriage was a disaster; he has no real friends in his department, and the profession of teaching and the field of scholarship have changed and left him behind. It is also one of the first novels portraying the institutional and personal responses to political influences on college campuses during the 1960s.
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP]  Sandy Jones, (born August 16, 1943) in Atlanta, Georgia is an American author and pregnancy and parenting expert. She has written, and co-authored, a dozen books since 1976, including the "Great Expectations" series, focusing on a baby's first years. She has been a lecturer at several events, including La Leche League conferences, an organization that educates women on breast-feeding. Jones has a Bachelor's degree in psychology from Furman University in Greenville, South Carolina and a Master's degree in psychology from Appalachian State University in Boone, North Carolina. She is divorced, and has one daughter, Marcie Jones, who she has co-authored two books with.
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP] Sandy McCutcheon  Robert Hamish McCutcheon (born 1947), known as Sandy McCutcheon is an Australian author, playwright, actor, journalist and broadcaster.
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP] Sandy Shaw (writer)  Sandy Shaw (formerly Sandy Shakocius) (born 1943) is an American writer on health. She is an advocate of life extension.
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP] Sandy Frances Duncan  Sandy Frances Duncan is a Canadian writer of novels, mysteries, and short stories. Her novel "Gold Rush Orphan" was among the finalists for the Sheila A. Egoff Children's Literature Prize in 2005. She has contributed short fiction to anthologies, including "Dropped Threads: What We Aren't Told" and "Celebrating Canadian Women", and to magazines including Makara, Northern Journey, and Canadian Fiction.<ref name="Contemporary Authors Online"/>  Duncan, born in Vancouver in 1942, holds bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of British Columbia. She worked as a psychologist at Woodlands School, New Westminster, British Columbia; Burnaby Mental Health Center in Burnaby, and for the Metropolitan Health Department in Vancouver before turning to writing full-time in 1973.<ref name="Contemporary Authors Online"/>
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP] 4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy)  "4th of July, Asbury Park (Sandy)", often known just as "Sandy", is a 1973 song by Bruce Springsteen, originally appearing as the second song on his album "The Wild, the Innocent & the E Street Shuffle". It was released as a single from the album in Germany.  One of the best-known and most praised of his early efforts, the song remains one of his most popular ballads, and has been described as "the perfect musical study of the Jersey Shore boardwalk culture".<ref name="santelli" />
Who is the author of Sandy? [SEP] Sandy Fussell  Sandy Fussell (born 1960) is an Australian author best known for her works in children’s literature. Her second novel, "Polar Boy," was selected as the National Reading Day book for primary school students in 2009.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP]  Interiors is a 1978 American drama film written and directed by Woody Allen. It stars Kristin Griffith, Mary Beth Hurt, Richard Jordan, Diane Keaton, E. G. Marshall, Geraldine Page, Maureen Stapleton, and Sam Waterston. Allen's first fully-fledged film in the drama genre, it was met with acclaim from critics. It received five Academy Award nominations, including Best Director, Best Original Screenplay (both for Allen), Best Actress (Page), and Best Supporting Actress (Stapleton). Page also won the BAFTA Film Award for Best Supporting Actress.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP]  Cities of the Interior is a novel sequence published in one volume containing the five books of Anaïs Nin's "continuous novel": Ladders to Fire, Children of the Albatross, The Four-Chambered Heart, A Spy in the House of Love and Seduction of the Minotaur. This combined volume was first published, by the author, in 1959. Its central figures are three women resembling different aspects of the author, and in some superficial ways June Miller. In some of the books they interact with each other, with a painter resembling Henry Miller and with South Americans resembling her friend, the Peruvian radical Gonzalo Moré, and his wife Helba. Most of the content is taken from her diaries, polished and thinly disguised. It was followed by her last novel, Collages. Gore Vidal was impressed by both Ladders to Fire and Children of the Albatross, and played a role in their publication.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Interior Atmospheres (Architectural Design, Volume 78, no. 3, May/June 2008) ISBN: 978-0-470-51254-8 ; Intimus: Interior Design Theory Reader (Wiley, 2006), co-edited with Mark Taylor. ISBN: 978-0-470-01570-4 ; Interior Economies (IDEA, 2011) ; Moments of Resistance (co-edited with Mark Taylor and Andrew Charleson, Sydney: Archadia Press, 2002)
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP]  The Global Interior: Mineral Frontiers and American Power is a 2018 book by Megan Black, Associate Professor of History at MIT. The book documents the history of the U.S. Department of the Interior and its role in American imperialism.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP]  He was the author of several books, including The Practice of the Interior Life and Earnest Contention for the Faith.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Interior Chinatown  Interior Chinatown is a 2020 novel by Charles Yu. It is his second novel and was published by Pantheon Books on January 28, 2020. It won the 2020 National Book Award for Fiction. The novel was also longlisted for the 2021 Andrew Carnegie Medal for Excellence in Fiction and was shortlisted for the Prix Médicis étranger.<ref name="prix" />
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Kelly Hoppen  Kelly Elaine Hoppen (born 28 July 1959) is a South African-born British interior designer, author, and proprietor of Kelly Hoppen Interiors.  From 2013 to 2015, she was a "Dragon" on BBC Two's "Dragons' Den".
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Interior design  Interior design is the art and science of enhancing the interior of a building to achieve a healthier and more aesthetically pleasing environment for the people using the space. An interior designer is someone who plans, researches, coordinates, and manages such enhancement projects. Interior design is a multifaceted profession that includes conceptual development, space planning, site inspections, programming, research, communicating with the stakeholders of a project, construction management, and execution of the design.
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Faye Resnick  Faye Denise Resnick (née Hutchison; born July 3, 1957) is an American television personality, author, and interior designer. She is best known for her involvement in the O.J. Simpson murder trial and for her appearance on the reality television series "The Real Housewives of Beverly Hills".
Who is the author of The Interior? [SEP] Wilhelm Stuckart  Wilhelm Stuckart (16 November 1902 – 15 November 1953) was a German Nazi Party lawyer, official, and a State Secretary in the Reich Interior Ministry during the Nazi era. He was a co-author of the notorious Nuremberg Laws and was a participant in the Wannsee Conference that formulated the Final Solution. He also served as "Reichsminister" of the Interior in the short-lived Flensburg government at the end of the Second World War.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]  Jonathan Bruce Hancock is the author of 'The Study Book', a columnist for Reader's Digest magazine, and the Founder of The Junior Memory Championship. A two-time Guinness World Record-Holder and former World Memory Champion, he also spent fifteen years working as a radio presenter on BBC Radio Oxford. He has written fourteen books, mostly on memory and learning, and spent many years working as a teacher and school leader. He provides freelance services as a writer, ghost-writer, editor and publisher.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]  Tom Meyer (born May 9, 1976), known as The Bible Memory Man, is an American public speaker known for his ability to quote over 20 complete books of the Bible dramatically from memory. His book The Memorization Study Bible (2018) is published by Master Books and specifically facilitates the memorization of the Bible, a popular spiritual exercise for many Evangelical Christians.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]  Memory is a science fiction novel by American writer Lois McMaster Bujold, first published in October 1996. It is a part of the Vorkosigan Saga, and is the eleventh full-length novel in publication order.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]  The Memory Wars was published in 1995 by The New York Review of Books.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]  Richard Rodriguez (born July 31, 1944) is an American writer who became famous as the author of Hunger of Memory: The Education of Richard Rodriguez (1982), a narrative about his intellectual development.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP] Memoir  A memoir (; , ) is any nonfiction narrative writing based in the author's personal memories. The assertions made in the work are thus understood to be factual. While memoir has historically been defined as a subcategory of biography or autobiography since the late 20th century, the genre is differentiated in form, presenting a narrowed focus, usually a particular time phase in someone's life or career. A biography or autobiography tells the story "of a life", while a memoir often tells the story of a particular, career, event, or time, such as touchstone moments and turning points from the author's life. The author of a memoir may be referred to as a memoirist or a memorialist.
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP] Memory (Cats song)  "Memory" is a show tune composed by Andrew Lloyd Webber, with lyrics by Trevor Nunn based on poems by T. S. Eliot. It was written for the 1981 musical "Cats", where it is sung primarily by the character Grizabella as a melancholic remembrance of her glamorous past and as a plea for acceptance. "Memory" is the climax of the musical and by far its best-known song, having achieved mainstream success outside of the musical. According to musicologist Jessica Sternfeld, writing in 2006, it is "by some estimations the most successful song ever from a musical."  Elaine Paige originated the role of Grizabella in the West End production of "Cats" and was thus the first to perform the song publicly on stage. "Memory" was named the Best Song Musically and Lyrically at the 1982 Ivor Novello Awards. In 2020, Jessie Thompson of the "Evening Standard" wrote, "Paige’s version set the standard and enabled Memory to become one of the most recognisable musical theatre songs of all time."
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP] The Memory Police
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]
Who is the author of Memory? [SEP]
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP]  Days Between Stations is the first novel by Steve Erickson. Upon publication in 1985 it received notable praise from Thomas Pynchon and has been cited as an influence by novelists such as Jonathan Lethem and Mark Z. Danielewski. It has been translated into French, Spanish, Italian, Russian and Japanese. Several stories intersect in this novel: Lauren and Jason's unhappy marriage, Lauren's love affair with Adrien-Michel, and a lost silent film titled The Death of Marat.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP]  jobs. In 1990, she published The Stations of Solitude, which drew upon the model of the Stations of the Cross and outlined thirteen stations with themes such as "Unbinding," "Working," and "Standing Open." She saw the book as "a line of travel," through "the process of shaping a human being, and the stations are stopping places in the process." Like An Unknown Woman, however, the book was heavily autobiographical and went over many of the same experiences discussed in the earlier book. The resulting reviews were less enthusiastic: "Koller seems to be writing for herself, failing to invite readers into her exclusive domain of solitude," wrote Francisca Goldsmith
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP]  Stations of the Tide is a science fiction novel by American author Michael Swanwick. Prior to being published in book form in 1991, it was serialized in Isaac Asimov's Science Fiction Magazine in two parts, starting in mid-December 1990. It won the Nebula Award for Best Novel in 1991, was nominated for both the Hugo and Campbell Awards in 1992, and was nominated for the Arthur C. Clarke Award in 1993.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP]  Telephone Book consists of transcripts of Friedman's phone calls over the course of a number of weeks, and Space Stations – which has not been published in its entirety, follows up on William S. Burroughs by dividing a journal's pages into three columns and recording Firedman's attention shifts while he is writing. Space Stations provided the material for much of Friedman's published poetry from 1982 to 2001. Jerome Rothenberg has said of Friedman that he is "a powerful & never disappointing poet/chronicler, at the top of his form & ready to take his place among the makers & movers of our time," and Ed Sanders has said "You can count on Ed Friedman ... to take you on a fine ride."
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP]  Dra'k'ne Station was written by Bill Paley, with art by Kevin Siembieda and was published in 1979 by Judges Guild as a 64-page book.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP] Station Eleven  Station Eleven is a novel by the Canadian writer Emily St. John Mandel. It takes place in the Great Lakes region before and after a fictional swine flu pandemic, known as the "Georgia Flu", has devastated the world, killing most of the population. The book was published in 2014, and won the Arthur C. Clarke Award the following year.  The novel was well received by critics, with the understated nature of Mandel's writing receiving particular praise. It appeared on several best-of-year lists. it had sold 1.5 million copies.  A ten-part television adaptation of the same name premiered on HBO Max in December 2021.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP] Emily St. John Mandel  Emily St. John Mandel (; born 1979) is a Canadian novelist and essayist. has been adapted into a limited series on HBO Max. "The Glass Hotel" was translated into twenty languages and was selected by Barack Obama as one of his favorite books of 2020. Her novel, "Sea of Tranquility", was published in April 2022 and debuted at number three on "The New York Times" Best Seller list.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP] Ice Station Zebra (novel)  Ice Station Zebra is a 1963 thriller novel written by Scottish author Alistair MacLean. It marked a return to MacLean's classic Arctic setting. After completing this novel, whose plot line parallels real-life events during the Cold War, MacLean retired from writing for three years. In 1968 it was loosely adapted into a film of the same name.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP] Sara Henderson  Sara Jane Henderson (15 September 1936 – 29 April 2005) was an Australian pastoralist and author who became an Australia household name after the publication of her autobiography "From Strength to Strength" in 1993 about rebuilding Bullo River cattle station in the Northern Territory of Australia.
Who is the author of Stations? [SEP] Station Eleven (miniseries)  Station Eleven is an American post-apocalyptic dystopian fiction miniseries created by Patrick Somerville based on the 2014 novel of the same name by Emily St. John Mandel. The miniseries premiered on HBO Max on December 16, 2021, and ran for ten episodes until January 13, 2022.  It received critical acclaim and was nominated for seven Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Lead Actor in a Limited or Anthology Series or Movie for Patel.
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]  The Coquette or, The History of Eliza Wharton is an epistolary novel by Hannah Webster Foster. It was published anonymously in 1797, and did not appear under the author's real name until 1856, 16 years after Foster's death. It was one of the best-selling novels of its time and was reprinted eight times between 1824 and 1828. A fictionalized account of the much-publicized death of a socially elite Connecticut woman after giving birth to a stillborn, illegitimate child at a roadside tavern, Foster's novel highlights the social conditions that lead to the downfall of an otherwise well-educated and socially adept woman.
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]  School for Heroes is a children's fantasy duology written by Jackie French.
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]  School, Stephen K. Smuin, has been a teacher and school administrator for many years. He had been head of the middle school at the Nueva School, a private elementary and middle school in Hillsborough, California, but was ousted by the school board following allegations of abusive behavior towards a former student. He is the author of three books on writing technique, including "More than Metaphors: Strategies for Teaching Process Writing.". He retired in June 2010. In July 2010, Daniel Popplewell joined Odyssey as its new Head of School. He had been dean of teaching and learning at Bentley School in Lafayette, California. He was succeeded in July 2013 by Stephen P. Lane, who had been head of Santa Barbara Middle School.
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]  Russo is the editor of the 2004 volume School Reform In Chicago (Harvard Education Press) and the author of Stray Dogs, Saints, and Saviors (Jossey-Bass), a nonfiction account of the effort by Steve Barr and Green Dot Public Schools to revamp Locke High School, featured in the May 2009 New Yorker article "The Instigator".
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]  The Coquette received a revival of critical attention during the late twentieth century. It is often praised for its intelligent portrayal of the contrast between individualism vs. social conformity and passion vs. reason. It has also been studied for its relationship to political ideologies of the early American republic and its portrayal of the emerging middle class. Foster's tale has been read on the one hand as a "novel for providing a subversive message about the ways in which the lives of women even of the elite are subject to narrow cultural constraints" and, on the other hand, as an instructive novel that "comes down on
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP]
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP] The Coquette  The Coquette or, The History of Eliza Wharton is an epistolary novel by Hannah Webster Foster. It was published anonymously in 1797, and did not appear under the author's real name until 1856, 16 years after Foster's death. It was one of the best-selling novels of its time and was reprinted eight times between 1824 and 1828. A fictionalized account of the much-publicized death of a socially elite Connecticut woman after giving birth to a stillborn, illegitimate child at a roadside tavern, Foster's novel highlights the social conditions that lead to the downfall of an otherwise well-educated and socially adept woman.
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP] Marcel Gerbidon  Marcel Gerbidon (1868–1933) was a French playwright and screenwriter. He collaborated frequently with Paul Armont. A number of his plays have been adapted into films such as the 1958 film "School for Coquettes".
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP] Catherine Gore  Catherine Grace Frances Gore (née Moody; 12 February 1798 – 29 January 1861),
Who is the author of School for Coquettes? [SEP] Carolina Band  The Carolina Band, or the Mighty Sound of the Southeast, is the official marching band of the University of South Carolina. This 400-member marching band performs at all South Carolina Gamecocks football games played at Williams-Brice Stadium and most football games outside of Columbia, including bowl games.  The band's pregame performance ends with theme from "", as the Gamecocks run onto the field at the start of every game, which "Sporting News" once called "the most exciting pregame entry" in college football.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] 2006, India, Rupa, ISBN: 81-291-0983-2, Paperback
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP]  Trust Me, I'm Lying: Confessions of a Media Manipulator is a book by Ryan Holiday. The book chronicles Holiday's time working as a media strategist for clients including authors Tucker Max and Robert Greene as well as American Apparel founder Dov Charney.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP]  Trust Me is a collection of short stories by John Updike, first published in 1987.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP]  Trust Me is the biggest-selling Indian chick lit novel. Written by Rajashree, it is set in Bollywood, the Bombay film industry and uses the narrative structure of a 'masala' Bollywood film.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP]  Geordie Greig, editor, Tatler, and former literary editor, Sunday Times called Trust Me ‘a most enjoyable read.’ Kiran Nagarkar, author, Cuckold, said, 'Rajashree... has a genuine comic talent.’ Michele Roberts, author and former Man Booker judge, said about the book, ‘A feminist romance set in the Bombay film industry. Terrific story. Loved the humour.’ The book was received enthusiastically by magazines like Femina who said, ‘Looking for an exciting chick-lit book with a twist? Then you simply will not be able to resist Trust Me by Rajashree.’ Marie Claire said, ‘In this lighthearted debut, Rajashree balances comic and sad moods perfectly. A fun read!’ Cosmopolitan said, 'A weekend must-read for every chick-lit lover. Go get it!' The book sold 25,000 copies in the first month
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] Trust Me, I'm Lying  Trust Me, I'm Lying: Confessions of a Media Manipulator is a book by Ryan Holiday chronicling his time working as a media strategist for clients including Tucker Max, Robert Greene, and Dov Charney.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] Trust Me (novel)  Trust Me is the biggest-selling Indian chick lit novel. Written by Rajashree, it is set in Bollywood, the Bombay film industry and uses the narrative structure of a 'masala' Bollywood film.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] Trust Me, I'm Dr. Ozzy  Trust Me, I'm Dr. Ozzy: Advice from Rock's Ultimate Survivor (shortened to Trust Me, I'm Dr. Ozzy) is a book by Ozzy Osbourne, vocalist of Black Sabbath and solo singer. It is the sequel to his 2010 release "I Am Ozzy". The book chronicles his drug abuse and survival stories about 40 years of Ozzy's drug and alcohol abuse. It also features Osbourne's health advice. The book was co-written by Chris Ayres, because of Osbourne's dyslexia.
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] Ryan Holiday  Ryan Holiday (born June 16, 1987) is an American author, modern Stoic, public-relations strategist, owner of the Painted Porch Bookshop and host of the podcast "The Daily Stoic." Prior to becoming an author, he served as the former director of marketing and eventually an advisor for American Apparel.<ref name=adweek/> Holiday's debut to writing was in 2012, when he published "Trust Me, I'm Lying." Holiday's notable works include his books on Stoic philosophy, such as "The Obstacle Is The Way", "Ego is the Enemy", "Stillness is the Key", "Courage is Calling", and "Lives of the Stoics".
Who is the author of Trust Me? [SEP] Trust Me (short story collection)  Trust Me is a collection of short stories by John Updike, first published in 1987.<ref> </ref>
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP]  Gasarch co-founded (with Richard Beigel) the field of Bounded Queries in Recursion Theory and has written many papers in the area capped off by a book on the topic  co-authored with Georgia Martin,  titled Bounded Queries in Recursion Theory. He's published books such as Problems with a Point, a book with a broad view on mathematics and theoretical computer science which he co-authored with Clyde Kruskal and includes works by other professors such as David Eppstein. He also co-founded the subfield of recursion-theoretic inductive inference named Learning via Queries with Carl Smith. More recently he has been more involved with combinatorics, notably Ramsey Theory. He has written two surveys of what theorists think of the P vs NP problem.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP]  John Vivian Tucker (born 1952) is a British computer scientist and expert on computability theory, also known as recursion theory. Computability theory is about what can and cannot be computed by people and machines. His work has focused on generalising the classical theory to deal with all forms of discrete/digital and continuous/analogue data; and on using the generalisations as formal methods for system design; and on the interface between algorithms and physical equipment.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP]  The first textbook on the theory of recursive functions. The book went through many editions and earned Péter the Kossuth Prize from the Hungarian government. Reviews by Raphael M. Robinson and Stephen Kleene praised the book for providing an effective elementary introduction for students.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP]  Richard Arnold Shore (born August 18, 1946) is a professor of mathematics at Cornell University who works in recursion theory. He is particularly known for his work on.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] 1) REDIRECT Panjer recursion  Harry Panjer is Professor of actuarial science at the University of Waterloo. He has published many articles in insurance and actuarial-related scientific publications.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] Recursion  Recursion (adjective: "recursive") occurs when a thing is defined in terms of itself or of its type. Recursion is used in a variety of disciplines ranging from linguistics to logic. The most common application of recursion is in mathematics and computer science, where a function being defined is applied within its own definition. While this apparently defines an infinite number of instances (function values), it is often done in such a way that no infinite loop or infinite chain of references ("crock recursion") can occur.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] Blake Crouch  William Blake Crouch (born October 15, 1978) is an American author best known for his "Wayward Pines Trilogy", which was adapted into the 2015 television series "Wayward Pines".
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] Tony Ballantyne (writer)  Tony Ballantyne (born 1972) is a British science-fiction author known for his debut trilogy of novels, titled "Recursion", "Capacity" and "Divergence". He is also Assistant Headteacher and an Information Technology teacher at The Blue Coat School, Oldham and has been nominated for the BSFA Award for short fiction.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] Recursion (computer science)  In computer science, recursion is a method of solving a computational problem where the solution depends on solutions to smaller instances of the same problem. Recursion solves such recursive problems by using functions that call themselves from within their own code. The approach can be applied to many types of problems, and recursion is one of the central ideas of computer science.  Most computer programming languages support recursion by allowing a function to call itself from within its own code. Some functional programming languages (for instance, Clojure) do not define any looping constructs but rely solely on recursion to repeatedly call code. It is proved in computability theory that these recursive-only languages are Turing complete; this means that they are as powerful (they can be used to solve the same problems) as imperative languages based on control structures such as and .  Repeatedly calling a function from within itself may cause the call stack to have a size equal to the sum of the input sizes of all involved calls. It follows that, for problems that can be solved easily by iteration, recursion is generally less efficient, and, for large problems, it is fundamental to use optimization techniques such as tail call optimization.
Who is the author of Recursion? [SEP] Recursive science fiction  Recursive science fiction is a subgenre of science fiction, which itself takes the form of an exploration of science fiction within the narrative of the story.
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP]  The Bishop's Heir is a fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Del Rey Books in 1984. It was the seventh of Kurtz' Deryni novels to be published, and the first book in her third Deryni trilogy, The Histories of King Kelson. Although The Legends of Camber of Culdi trilogy was published immediately prior to the Histories trilogy, The Bishop's Heir is a direct sequel to Kurtz' first Deryni series, The Chronicles of the Deryni.
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP]  In 1985, The Bishop's Heir was ranked 26th in an annual poll of fantasy novels by Locus magazine readers, placing it between T. E. D. Klein's The Ceremonies and Lloyd Alexander's The Beggar Queen. The poll was won by Robert A. Heinlein for his novel, Job: A Comedy of Justice.
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP]  Dave Langford reviewed The Bishop's Heir for White Dwarf #65, and stated that "Overall: a straight historical novel in plastic fantasy disguise. Brutally inconclusive ending, two sequels to follow. . . Interesting but patchy."
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] 1984, USA, Ballantine Books ISBN: 0-345-31824-2, Hardcover (first edition) ; 1984, UK, Arrow Books ISBN: 0-7126-0807-9, Pub date 22 November 1984, Hardcover ; 1984, UK, Trafalgar Square Books ISBN: 0-7126-0935-0, Pub date 22 November 1984, Paperback ; 1985, USA, Del Rey Books ISBN: 0-345-30097-1, Pub date 12 July 1985, Paperback ; 1986, UK, Legend Books ISBN: 0-09-947800-5, Paperback ; 1987, USA, Ballantine Books. ISBN: 9780345347619
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP]  The Bishop's Heir details the events of a period of time lasting roughly a month and a half, beginning in late November 1123 and ending in early January 1124. The novel begins as the Curia of Bishops meets in Culdi to choose the successor to the deceased Bishop of Meara. The selection of the next bishop is a delicate matter, as the Mearans have made several attempts to secede from Gwynedd over the past century. King Kelson Haldane addresses the assembled clerics, then departs to make a survey of the local barons. Shortly thereafter, Kelson is reunited with Lord Dhugal MacArdry, an old friend who he has not seen since before his coronation, and the king
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] The Bishop's Heir  The Bishop's Heir is a fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Del Rey Books in 1984. It was the seventh of Kurtz's Deryni novels to be published, and the first book in her third Deryni trilogy, "The Histories of King Kelson". Although "The Legends of Camber of Culdi" trilogy was published immediately prior to the "Histories" trilogy, "The Bishop's Heir" is a direct sequel to Kurtz's first Deryni series, "The Chronicles of the Deryni".
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] Anne Bishop  Anne Bishop is an American fantasy writer. Her most noted work is the Black Jewels series.<ref name="dfn1"/><ref name="dwd2"/> She won the Crawford Award in 2000 for the first three Black Jewels books, sometimes called the Black Jewels trilogy: "Daughter of the Blood", "Heir to the Shadows", and "Queen of the Darkness".<ref name="loc4"/>
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] The Black Jewels  The Black Jewels is a series of dark fantasy novels and short stories written by American writer Anne Bishop. The first three books were originally published individually and then together as a trilogy in a single omnibus collection. The series takes place in a world where those born with dark power/magic rule in a deeply matriarchal society.
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] High Deryni  High Deryni is a historical fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Ballantine Books as the sixty-first volume of the celebrated Ballantine Adult Fantasy series in September, 1973, and has been reprinted a number of times since. A revised and updated edition of the novel was released in 2007 by Ace Books. "High Deryni" was the third of Kurtz' Deryni novels to be published, and the final book in the Chronicles of the Deryni Trilogy. The next Deryni book to be published was "Camber of Culdi", which details events that occur two centuries before "High Deryni". However, the internal literary chronology of events in the Deryni series is continued in "The Bishop's Heir".
Who is the author of The Bishop's Heir? [SEP] The King's Justice  The King's Justice is a historical fantasy novel by American-born author Katherine Kurtz. It was first published by Del Rey Books in 1985. It was the eighth of Kurtz' Deryni novels to be published, and the second book in her third Deryni trilogy, The Histories of King Kelson. Although The Legends of Camber of Culdi trilogy was published immediately prior to the "Histories" trilogy, the "Histories" trilogy is a direct sequel to Kurtz' first Deryni series, The Chronicles of the Deryni.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] Robert Arellano (1969– ), author and professor ; John Beeson (1803–1889), abolitionist and Native American advocate
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP]  Talent is a comic book series written by Christopher Golden and Tom Sniegoski, drawn by Paul Azaceta, published by Boom! Studios.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP]  The War For Talent is a book written in 2001, by Axelrod, Ed Michaels, and Helen Handfield-Jones. The book was based on the term 'war for talent' that was first expressed by Steven Hankin of McKinsey and Company, who was a colleague of Axelrod. The book details a study done at the company in 1997, citing the war for talent as a challenging business strategy that Hankin argued would expand over the next two decades.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP]  The Talent Series is a series of novels written for preteenagers and teenagers by Zoey Dean. It is one of Zoey Dean's many preteen series.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP]  Wild Talents, published in 1932, is the fourth and final non-fiction book by the author Charles Fort, known for his writing on the paranormal.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] Parable of the Talents (novel)  Parable of the Talents is a science fiction novel by American writer Octavia E. Butler, published in 1998. It is the second in a series of two, a sequel to "Parable of the Sower".  It won the Nebula Award for Best Novel.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] David Walliams  David Edward Williams  He is also a writer of children's books, having sold more than 37 million copies worldwide.  Walliams played the role of Greville White in the 2007 television drama film "Capturing Mary." From 2013 to 2014, he wrote and starred in the BBC One sitcom "Big School." In 2015, he starred as Tommy Beresford in the BBC drama series "Partners in Crime", and wrote and starred in his own sketch comedy series "Walliams & Friend." Walliams has won the award for Best TV Judge for his work on "Britain's Got Talent" at the 2015, 2018, 2019 and 2020 National Television Awards. In 2022, he was a judge on the tenth season of "Australia's Got Talent".  Walliams began writing children's novels in 2008 after securing a contract with the publisher HarperCollins. His books have been translated into 53 languages, and he has been described as "the fastest-growing children's author in the UK", with a literary style compared to that of Roald Dahl. Some of his books have been adapted into television films, which he has also appeared in, including "Mr Stink" (2012), "Gangsta Granny" (2013) and "Billionaire Boy" (2016).  Walliams was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2017 Birthday Honours for services to charity and the arts. His charity work includes swimming the English Channel, Strait of Gibraltar and River Thames, raising millions of pounds for the BBC charity Sport Relief.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] The Talented Mr. Ripley  The Talented Mr. Ripley is a 1955 psychological thriller novel by Patricia Highsmith. This novel introduced the character of Tom Ripley, who returns in four subsequent novels. It has been adapted numerous times for screen, including "Purple Noon" (1960) starring Alain Delon and "The Talented Mr. Ripley" (1999) starring Matt Damon.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] Melanie Blake  Melanie Blake is an English author, columnist and talent agent. Blake began her career working as a camera assistant on "Top of the Pops" and eventually formed her own music agency. After representing music stars, she formed an acting and PR agency which primarily represented soap actresses from British and American soap operas. In 2018, Blake made the decision to lessen her client list to focus on her writing career. She has since released three bestselling novels: "The Thunder Girls" (2018), "Ruthless Women" (2021) and "Guilty Women" (2022), all of which were inspired by her experiences in both the music and soap industries. Blake is set to release the final instalment of the "Ruthless" trilogy, "Vengeful Women", in 2023.
Who is the author of Talent? [SEP] Michael Whitehall  Michael John Whitehall (born 12 April 1940) is an English author, producer, talent agent and television personality. He is a former theatrical agent who went on to form two production companies, Havahall Pictures (with Nigel Havers) in 1988, and Whitehall Films in 1998. He has represented Colin Firth and Dame Judi Dench. He is the father of comedian and actor Jack Whitehall.
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP]  }
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP]   This is... is a series of children's travel books written and illustrated by Czech author Miroslav Sasek between 1959 and 1974. Sasek originally intended to write three books: This is Paris, This is London, and This is Rome however, as a result of those titles' popularity, Sasek ultimately extended the series to 18 books. Four of the This is books were adapted into movie shorts by Weston Woods in the early 1960s: This is New York, This is Venice, This is Israel, and This is Ireland. The This is series went out of print. In 2003, publisher Rizzoli began reissuing some of the titles, although not in the original publication order. In these books, outdated facts were updated at the back of the book but the original artwork was preserved.
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] Joseph Connolly: This Is It (Faber and Faber: London, 2006) (ISBN: 0571232620).
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] This is Paris (1959) (republished 2004) ; This is London (1959) (republished 2004) ; This is Rome (1960) (republished 2007) ; This is New York (1960) (republished 2003) ; This is Edinburgh (1961) (republished 2006) ; This is Munich (1961) (republished 2012) ; This is Venice (1961) (republished 2005) ; This is San Francisco (1962) (republished 2003) ; This is Israel (1962) (republished 2008) ; This is Cape Canaveral (1963) (later republished as This is Cape Kennedy) (republished 2009 as This is the Way to the Moon) ; This is Ireland (1964) (republished 2005) ; This is Hong Kong (1965) (republished 2007) ; This is Greece (1966) (republished 2009) ; This is Texas (1967) (republished 2006) ; This is the United Nations (1968) ; This is Washington, D.C. (1969) (republished 2011) ; This is Australia (1970) (republished 2009) ; This is Historic Britain (1974) (republished 2008 as This is Britain) This is the World: A Global Treasury (published 2014: abridged versions of 16 titles in one volume – the excluded titles are Cape Canaveral and the United Nations)  Compilation
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP]  This Is America is a 1942 book with text by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt and photographs by Frances Cooke Macgregor published by G. P. Putnam's and Sons, New York. The title This Is America coincided with the 1942 series of wartime posters by the Sheldon-Claire company of Chicago, "This is America... Keep it Free".
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] This Is It (Michael Jackson song)  "This Is It" is a song co-written by American singer-songwriter Michael Jackson and Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka. The song was recorded by the former and featured as a track on the album of the same name which accompanies the 2009 concert documentary "Michael Jackson's This Is It".  It was premiered worldwide on Jackson's official website on October 12, 2009, four months after his death on June 25, 2009. Although Sony Music Entertainment referred to the song as a "new single" during its promotion, it was later confirmed that the song would only be sent for airplay, and not be available to buy as a single release. According to Anka, the song was recorded in 1980 and intended to be a duet between him and Jackson on Anka's "Walk a Fine Line" album under the title "I Never Heard", but these plans fell through. Thereafter, Sa-Fire recorded the track for her album, "I Wasn't Born Yesterday" (1991). The duet version of the song was featured in Anka's 2013 "Duets" album. While putting together the "This Is It" album, Jackson's demo version of the song was found. His brothers' vocals and additional instrumentation were then added to the recording.  A pop ballad, the instrumentation includes piano, guitar, percussion, and strings. Jackson's version, styled as a pop ballad, was his first song to chart on "Billboard" Hot Adult Contemporary Chart in over seventeen years. The song was generally well received by critics and enjoyed good chart performances globally. It became a top twenty hit on charts in Japan and Spain, and peaked at number 18 on both "Billboard"'s US Adult Contemporary and R&B/Hip-Hop song charts. In 2011, it received a Grammy Award nomination. The song was also accompanied by a music video, directed by Spike Lee, which consisted of footage of Jackson as a child, clips of him throughout his career, and footage of tributes from Jackson's fans around the world.
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] Epistle of James  The Epistle of James is a general epistle and one of the 21 epistles (didactic letters) in the New Testament.  James 1:1 identifies the author as "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ" who is writing to "the twelve tribes scattered abroad". The epistle is traditionally attributed to James the brother of Jesus (James the Just), and the audience is generally considered to be Jewish Christians, who were dispersed outside Israel.  Framing his letter within an overall theme of patient perseverance during trials and temptations, James writes in order to encourage his readers to live consistently with what they have learned in Christ. He condemns various sins, including pride, hypocrisy, favouritism, and slander. He encourages and implores believers to humbly live by godly, rather than worldly wisdom and to pray in all situations.   For the most part, until the late 20th century, the epistle of James was relegated to benign disregard – though it was shunned by many early theologians and scholars due to its advocacy of Torah observance and good works. Famously, Luther at one time considered the epistle to be among the disputed books, and sidelined it to an appendix, although in his Large Catechism he treated it as the authoritative word of God.  The epistle aims to reach a wide Jewish audience. During the last decades, the epistle of James has attracted increasing scholarly interest due to a surge in the quest for the historical James, his role within the Jesus movement, his beliefs, and his relationships and views. This James revival is also associated with an increasing level of awareness of the Jewish grounding of both the epistle and the early Jesus movement.
Who is the author of This Is It? [SEP] War and Peace  War and Peace (; pre-reform Russian: ; ) is a literary work by the Russian author Leo Tolstoy that mixes fictional narrative with chapters on history and philosophy. It was first published serially, then published in its entirety in 1869. It is regarded as Tolstoy's finest literary achievement and remains an internationally praised classic of world literature.  The novel chronicles the French invasion of Russia and the impact of the Napoleonic era on Tsarist society through the stories of five Russian aristocratic families. Portions of an earlier version, titled "The Year 1805", were serialized in "The Russian Messenger" from 1865 to 1867 before the novel was published in its entirety in 1869.  Tolstoy said that the best Russian literature does not conform to standards and hence hesitated to classify "War and Peace", saying it is "not a novel, even less is it a poem, and still less a historical chronicle". Large sections, especially the later chapters, are philosophical discussions rather than narrative. He regarded "Anna Karenina" as his first true novel.
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP]  The problem of survey error was at the center of Fowler’s research work starting with his graduate work at Michigan. He continued to focus on that throughout his career. One example is his work on interviewer-related error. A major study of the role of interviewer training and supervision in error reduction led to a 1989 book, with Tom Mangione, Standardized Survey Interviewing. Another major study with Charles Cannell explored the potential of coding the interaction between interviewers and respondents in pretest interviews as a way of evaluating survey questions. This technique was labeled behavior coding. That work was also a major contributor to his next book on the role of question design in survey error, Improving Survey Questions in 1995. The value of randomized experiments to evaluate alternative versions of questions was also the focus of several of Fowler’s studies. Among his most important contributions are two text books on survey methods. He is the author of Survey Research Methods, currently in its 5th edition since original publication in 1984 and a co-author, with Robert Groves, Mick Couper, James Lepkowski, Eleanor Singer and Roger Tourangeau of Survey Methodology.
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP]  Survey Review is an academic journal published by Taylor & Francis about surveying. It started in 1931 as Empire Survey Review and acquired the current name in 1963. Its editor-in-chief is Peter Collier; its 2018 impact factor is 1.442.
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] Surveying Victims (2008) ISBN: 0-309-11598-1 ; Survey Errors and Survey Costs (2004) ISBN: 0-471-67851-1 ; Survey Methodology (2010) Second edition of the (2004) first edition ISBN: 0-471-48348-6 ; Survey Nonresponse (2001) ISBN: 0-471-39627-3 ; Nonresponse in Household Interview Surveys (1998) ISBN: 0-471-18245-1 Measurement Errors in Surveys (2004) ISBN: 0-471-69280-8 ; Telephone Survey Methodology (2001) ISBN: 0-471-20956-2 Groves is the author of several books, including: Groves is the editor of several books, including:
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP]  A Survey is a book of fifty-two caricatures and humorous illustrations by British essayist, caricaturist and parodist Max Beerbohm. It was published in Britain in 1921 by William Heinemann and in the United States in the same year by Doubleday, Page & Company of New York City. Beerbohm created the illustrations for A Survey at his home in Rapallo in Italy and in Britain, where he and his wife Florence Kahn returned for the duration of World War I. The book was a satire on that War, and was published in plum cloth covered boards with fifty-two tipped-in pictures, comprising fifty-one monochrome
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP]  Schuman has researched many topics in the field of survey research, including public opinion on whether Christopher Columbus discovered America, reported incidents of police abuse in major U.S. cities, and the relationship between studying and grades.
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] United States Geological Survey  The United States Geological Survey (USGS), formerly simply known as the Geological Survey, is a scientific agency of the United States government. The scientists of the USGS study the landscape of the United States, its natural resources, and the natural hazards that threaten it. The organization's work spans the disciplines of biology, geography, geology, and hydrology. The USGS is a fact-finding research organization with no regulatory responsibility. The agency was founded on March 3, 1879.  The USGS is a bureau of the United States Department of the Interior; it is that department's sole scientific agency. The USGS employs approximately 8,670 people and is headquartered in Reston, Virginia. The USGS also has major offices near Lakewood, Colorado, at the Denver Federal Center, and Menlo Park, California.  The current motto of the USGS, in use since August 1997, is "science for a changing world". The agency's previous slogan, adopted on the occasion of its hundredth anniversary, was "Earth Science in the Public Service".
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] Asian Survey  Asian Survey: A Bimonthly Review of Contemporary Asian Affairs is a bimonthly academic journal of Asian studies published by the University of California Press on behalf of the Institute of East Asian Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. The journal was established in 1932 as Memorandum (Institute of Pacific Relations, American Council), but was renamed Far Eastern Survey in 1935. The journal acquired its current name in 1961. The journal uses double-blind peer review.  According to the "Journal Citation Reports", the journal has a 2021 impact factor of 0.511. The editor-in-chief is Uk Heo (University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee).
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] Proust Questionnaire  The Proust Questionnaire is a set of questions answered by the French writer Marcel Proust, and often used by modern interviewers.  Proust answered the questionnaire in a confession album—a form of parlor game popular among Victorians. The album belonged to his friend Antoinette, daughter of future French President Félix Faure, titled "An Album to Record Thoughts, Feelings, etc."  The album was found in 1924 by Faure's son, and published in the French literary journal "Les Cahiers du Mois". It was auctioned on May 27, 2003 for the sum of €102,000 ($113,609.46USD).  Other historical figures who have answered confession albums are Oscar Wilde, Karl Marx, Arthur Conan Doyle, Stéphane Mallarmé, Paul Cézanne, Martin Boucher and Enzo Kehl.  The French book talk show host Bernard Pivot used a similar questionnaire at the end of every episode of his show "Apostrophes". Inspired by Bernard Pivot, James Lipton, the host of the TV program "Inside the Actors Studio", used a similar questionnaire. Lipton had often incorrectly characterized the questionnaire itself as an invention of Pivot.  A similar questionnaire is regularly seen on the back page of "Vanity Fair" magazine, answered by various celebrities. In October 2009, "Vanity Fair" launched an interactive version of the questionnaire, that compares individual answers to those of various luminaries.  Another version of the questionnaire, as answered by various Canadian authors, is a regular feature on the radio program "The Next Chapter".
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] Domesday Book  Domesday Book () – the Middle English spelling of "Doomsday Book" – is a manuscript record of the "Great Survey" of much of England and parts of Wales completed in 1086 by order of King William I, known as William the Conqueror. The manuscript was originally known by the Latin name "Liber de Wintonia", meaning "Book of Winchester", where it was originally kept in the royal treasury. The "Anglo-Saxon Chronicle" states that in 1085 the king sent his agents to survey every shire in England, to list his holdings and dues owed to him.  Written in Medieval Latin, it was highly abbreviated and included some vernacular native terms without Latin equivalents. The survey's main purpose was to record the annual value of every piece of landed property to its lord, and the resources in land, manpower, and livestock from which the value derived.  The name "Domesday Book" came into use in the 12th century. Richard FitzNeal wrote in the "Dialogus de Scaccario" ( 1179) that the book was so called because its decisions were unalterable, like those of the Last Judgement, and its sentence could not be quashed.  The manuscript is held at The National Archives at Kew, London. Domesday was first printed in full in 1783; and in 2011 the Open Domesday site made the manuscript available online.  The book is an invaluable primary source for modern historians and historical economists. No survey approaching the scope and extent of Domesday Book was attempted again in Britain until the 1873 Return of Owners of Land (sometimes termed the "Modern Domesday") which presented the first complete, post-Domesday picture of the distribution of landed property in the United Kingdom.
Who is the author of A Survey? [SEP] When I Survey the Wondrous Cross  The hymn, "When I Survey the Wondrous Cross", was written by Isaac Watts, and published in "Hymns and Spiritual Songs" in 1707. It is significant for being an innovative departure from the early English hymn style of only using paraphrased biblical texts, although the first couplet of the second verse paraphrases Galatians 6:14a and the second couplet of the fourth verse paraphrases Gal.6:14b. The poetry of "When I survey..." may be seen as English literary baroque.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] Mmm ... Skyscraper I Love You: a Typographic Journal of New York. London: Booth-Clibborn, 2002. ISBN: 978-1873968581. ; In the Belly of Saint Paul. Underworld Print, 2003. ISBN: 978-0954613105.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP]  Skyscrapers of Oz written by Yoshino Somei and illustrated by Row Takakura. The manga is licensed in North America by Media Blasters, which released the manga on August 15, 2004. Chara released the manga in Japan in October 2001.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP]  Skyscraper is the first full-length play by David Auburn. It premiered Off-Broadway in 1997. It is a serious comedy about the deterioration of ingenuity and art.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP]  Skyscrapers of Oz (オズの摩天楼) is a one-shot Japanese manga written by Yoshino Somei and illustrated by Row Takakura. The manga is licensed in North America by Media Blasters.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] 1982: "Skyscrapers", Perspecta 18, pp. 134–151 ; 1984: Introduction to The Second Generation by Esther McCoy (Peregrine Smith Books) ; 1999: Observations for Young Architects (Monacelli Press) ; 2001: Petronas Towers: The Architecture of High Construction co-authored with Michael J. Crosbie (Wiley-Academy) ; 2002: Foreword to Ralph Rapson: Sketches and Drawings from Around the World by Ralph Rapson (Afton Historical Society Press)
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] Skyscraper (song)  "Skyscraper" is a song recorded by American singer Demi Lovato for her third studio album "Unbroken" (2011). It was released on July 12, 2011 by Hollywood Records, as the lead single from the album. The song was written by Toby Gad, Lindy Robbins and by the Estonian singer Kerli and produced by Gad. American singer Jordin Sparks sang background vocals on the track. It was inspired by a picture of the apocalypse, in which the world was in ruins and among collapsed buildings, one skyscraper was still standing. When the song was recorded, Lovato was very emotional which triggered outbursts and caused her to start crying. On November 1, 2010, Lovato entered a treatment facility to deal with her personal struggles. Lovato was later diagnosed with bipolar disorder.  After completing treatment on January 28, 2011, Lovato re-recorded the song, but kept the original recording as Lovato felt it was "symbolic" to her. This ballad speaks of staying strong and believing in oneself. These two ideals strongly represent the journey Lovato went through the previous year, which speaks through Lovato's breathy and quivering vocals throughout the song. The song opens with a lonely piano and as soon accompanied by heavy percussion. A Spanish version of the song, alternatively titled "Rascacielo" was released on August 16.<ref name="Rascacielo"/>  "Skyscraper" debuted at number ten on the "Billboard" Hot 100, spending a total of 15 weeks on the chart. The song became Lovato's highest-charting single since "This Is Me" which peaked at number nine in July 2008. "Skyscraper" sold 176,000 paid digital downloads in the first week of release in the United States, setting a sales record for Lovato. Internationally, the song reached the top 20 in Canada, New Zealand, Denmark, The Republic of Ireland, and The United Kingdom. The song has sold over 1.6 million digital downloads in The United States and has been certified platinum by the RIAA.<ref name="ussales"/>
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] Carol Willis (architectural historian)  Carol Willis is the founder, director, and curator of the Skyscraper Museum. She is also adjunct associate professor of Urban Studies at Columbia University. Herbert Muschamp described Willis in "The New York Times" as the “woman who created the Skyscraper Museum in 1996 from nothing but her imagination, her passion for New York architecture, and her belief in the importance of history and the value of the public realm.”
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] Lunch atop a Skyscraper  Lunch atop a Skyscraper is a black-and-white photograph taken on September 20, 1932, of eleven ironworkers sitting on a steel beam above the ground on the sixty-ninth floor of the RCA Building in Manhattan, New York City. It was arranged as a publicity stunt, part of a campaign promoting the skyscraper. The photograph was first published in October 1932 during the construction of Rockefeller Center. It was later acquired by Corbis Images in 1995.  The image is often misattributed to Lewis Hine; the identity of the photographer remains unknown. Evidence emerged indicating it may have been taken by Charles C. Ebbets, but it was later found that other photographers had been present at the shoot as well. Many claims have been made regarding the identities of the men in the image, though only a few have been definitively identified. Ken Johnston, manager of the historic collections of Corbis, referred to the image as "a piece of American history". The 2012 documentary film "Men at Lunch" is based on the photograph.
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP] Skyscraper (2018 film)  Skyscraper is a 2018 American action thriller film written and directed by Rawson Marshall Thurber. Produced by Legendary Pictures, Seven Bucks Productions and FlynnPictureCo., the film stars Dwayne Johnson in the lead role, Neve Campbell, Chin Han, Roland Møller, Noah Taylor, Byron Mann, Pablo Schreiber, and Hannah Quinlivan. In the film, Will Sawyer, a former FBI agent, must rescue his family from a newly built Hong Kong skyscraper, the tallest in the world, after terrorists set the building on fire in an attempt to extort the property developer. The first non-comedy of Thurber's career, it also marks his second collaboration with Johnson, following "Central Intelligence" (2016).  Development started in May 2016 when Legendary Entertainment won the bidding war for a Chinese-set action adventure film. Johnson were cast to play the lead, while Thurber was attached as the film's scriptwriter, director and producer, with Flynn producing the film through his Flynn Picture Company, alongside Johnson's Seven Bucks Productions, with Universal handling distribution rights. Apart from Johnson's casting, the casting call began from June to August 2017. Filming began in August 2017 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Additional photography and exteriors were filmed at the Hong Kong Cultural Centre.  "Skyscraper" premiered in Beijing, on July 1, 2018 and was released in the United States by Universal Pictures on July 13, 2018, in 2D and RealD 3D formats. "Skyscraper" underperformed at the box office, grossing over $304 million worldwide against its production budget of $125 million and prompting Legendary to end its distribution deal with Universal. The film received mixed reviews from critics, who praised Johnson's performance and the film's suspenseful scenes, but criticized the story as clichéd and too similar to "The Towering Inferno" (1974) and "Die Hard" (1988).
Who is the author of Skyscraper? [SEP]
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  The Shadow Speaker, is a young adult, first-person novel by Nigerian-American writer Nnedi Okorafor, which takes place in the year 2070. The Shadow Speaker was a Booksense Pick for Winter 2007/2008, a Tiptree Honor Book, a finalist for the Essence Magazine Literary Award, the Andre Norton Award and the Golden Duck Award and an NAACP Image Award nominee.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Steven Katz (born October 8, 1959) is an American writer best known for his work on Shadow of the Vampire. He received a B. A. in English and Art History from Brown University in 1982 and an M. A. in English from Columbia University in 1984. He currently lives in New York City.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Her story, Shadow Dreams, was published March 2021 by Titan Books in the anthology Black Panther: Tales of Wakanda.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Shadow Over Nordmaar (1982) under the pen name Dezra Despain ; The Immortals (1996) ; Starcraft: Speed of Darkness (2002) ; Fireborn: Embers of Atlantis (2011) ; Wayne of Gotham (June 2012) ; Swept up by the Sea 2 (2013) ; Lincoln's Wizard (2015) with Dan Willis
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Prolific, explaining that he had more ideas than he knew what to do with, in addition to his Collins name, he created additional series under the pseudonyms Mark Sadler, John Crowe, and Carl Dekker. For a few years, he published under three of these pseudonyms at the same time at three different publishing houses — Dodd Mead, Random House, and Bobbs-Merrill. For many years, The New York Times listed his books annually as among the nation’s top mysteries. One year, two appeared on the same list, each written under a different pseudonym. He also penned 8 Belmont Books mass-market paperbacks of The Shadow from 1964 to 1967 under the Shadow's author by-line Maxwell Grant.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Leigh Bardugo  Leigh Bardugo () is an Israeli-American fantasy author. She is best known for her young adult Grishaverse novels, which include the "Shadow and Bone" trilogy, the "Six of Crows" duology, and the "King of Scars" duology. She also received acclaim for her paranormal fantasy adult debut, "Ninth House". The "Shadow and Bone" and "Six of Crows" series have been adapted into "Shadow and Bone" by Netflix and "Ninth House" will be adapted by Amazon Studios; Bardugo is an executive producer on both works.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] The Shadow  The Shadow is a fictional character created by magazine publishers Street & Smith and writer Walter B. Gibson. Originally created to be a mysterious radio show narrator, and developed into a distinct literary character in 1931 by writer Walter B. Gibson, The Shadow has been adapted into other forms of media, including American comic books, comic strips, television, serials, video games, and at least five feature films. The radio drama included episodes voiced by Orson Welles.  The Shadow debuted on July 31, 1930, as the mysterious narrator of the radio program "Detective Story Hour", which was developed to boost sales of Street & Smith's monthly pulp "Detective Story Magazine". When listeners of the program began asking at newsstands for copies of "that Shadow detective magazine", Street & Smith launched a magazine based on the character, and hired Gibson to create a concept to fit the name and voice and to write a story featuring him. The first issue of the pulp series "The Shadow Magazine" went on sale April 1, 1931.  On September 26, 1937, "The Shadow", a new radio drama based on the character as created by Gibson for the pulp magazine, premiered with the story "The Death House Rescue", in which The Shadow was characterized as having "the hypnotic power to cloud men's minds so they cannot see him". In the magazine stories, The Shadow did not become literally invisible.  The introductory line from the radio adaptation of The Shadow – "Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Shadow knows!" – spoken by actor Frank Readick, has earned a place in the American idiom. These words were accompanied by an ominous laugh and a musical theme, Camille Saint-Saëns' "Le Rouet d'Omphale" ("Omphale's Spinning Wheel," composed in 1872).  The Shadow, at the end of each episode, reminded listeners, "The weed of crime bears bitter fruit! Crime does not pay...The Shadow knows!"  Some early episodes used the alternate statement, "As you sow evil, so shall you reap evil! Crime does not pay...The Shadow knows!"
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] The Shadow of the Wind  The Shadow of the Wind () is a 2001 novel by the Spanish writer Carlos Ruiz Zafón and a worldwide bestseller. The book was translated into English in 2004 by Lucia Graves and sold over a million copies in the UK after already achieving success on mainland Europe, topping the Spanish bestseller lists for weeks. It was published in the United States by Penguin Books and in Great Britain by Weidenfeld & Nicolson and Orion Books. It is believed to have sold 15 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling books of all time.  Ruiz Zafón's follow-up, "The Angel's Game", is a prequel to "The Shadow of the Wind". His third in the series, "The Prisoner of Heaven", is the sequel to "The Shadow of the Wind".
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Shadow and Bone  Shadow and Bone is a young adult fantasy adventure and debut novel written by Israeli-American author Leigh Bardugo. It was published by Macmillan Publishers on June 5, 2012. The novel is narrated by Alina Starkov, a teenage orphan who grows up in the Russia-inspired land of Ravka when, unexpectedly harnessing a power she never knew she had in order to save her childhood best friend, she becomes a target of intrigue and violence. It is the first book in the "Shadow and Bone" trilogy, followed by "Siege and Storm" and "Ruin and Rising." It is also the basis for the Netflix adaptation, "Shadow and Bone," which premiered in April 2021.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Livestock's Long Shadow  Livestock's Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options is a United Nations report, released by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations on 29 November 2006, that "aims to assess the full impact of the livestock sector on environmental problems, along with potential technical and policy approaches to mitigation".<ref name="FAO-Report"/> It stated that livestock accounts for 18% of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, a figure which FAO changed to 14.5% in its 2013 study "Tackling climate change through livestock".
Who is the author of This? [SEP]   This is... is a series of children's travel books written and illustrated by Czech author Miroslav Sasek between 1959 and 1974. Sasek originally intended to write three books: This is Paris, This is London, and This is Rome however, as a result of those titles' popularity, Sasek ultimately extended the series to 18 books. Four of the This is books were adapted into movie shorts by Weston Woods in the early 1960s: This is New York, This is Venice, This is Israel, and This is Ireland. The This is series went out of print. In 2003, publisher Rizzoli began reissuing some of the titles, although not in the original publication order. In these books, outdated facts were updated at the back of the book but the original artwork was preserved.
Who is the author of This? [SEP]  Picture This is a 1988 novel from Joseph Heller, the satiric author of the acclaimed Catch-22.
Who is the author of This? [SEP] Steinkopf was a co-author of this book.
Who is the author of This? [SEP]  An "editor by excellence of prefaces to books", but one who "never signed his works", Năsturel is identified as the author of the foreword to Matei Basarab's standard legal code, Pravila de la Govora. Here, he explains the effort to collect and translate relevant literature, deploring the "scarcity and shortage of such books". Scholars also regard him as the author of the preface to another legal code, the 1652 Îndreptarea Legii. The latter text abounds in references to classical lawmakers, from Lycurgus of Sparta and Hippocrates to Justinian I and Leo the Wise. With his activity in the field, he
Who is the author of This? [SEP]  "Who Am I This Time?" is a short story written by Kurt Vonnegut, published in the Saturday Evening Post in 1961. The story was collected in Vonnegut's famous anthology Welcome to the Monkey House. It was originally titled "My Name is Everyone".
Who is the author of This? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of This? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of This? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who is the author of This? [SEP] Epistle of James  The Epistle of James is a general epistle and one of the 21 epistles (didactic letters) in the New Testament.  James 1:1 identifies the author as "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ" who is writing to "the twelve tribes scattered abroad". The epistle is traditionally attributed to James the brother of Jesus (James the Just), and the audience is generally considered to be Jewish Christians, who were dispersed outside Israel.  Framing his letter within an overall theme of patient perseverance during trials and temptations, James writes in order to encourage his readers to live consistently with what they have learned in Christ. He condemns various sins, including pride, hypocrisy, favouritism, and slander. He encourages and implores believers to humbly live by godly, rather than worldly wisdom and to pray in all situations.   For the most part, until the late 20th century, the epistle of James was relegated to benign disregard – though it was shunned by many early theologians and scholars due to its advocacy of Torah observance and good works. Famously, Luther at one time considered the epistle to be among the disputed books, and sidelined it to an appendix, although in his Large Catechism he treated it as the authoritative word of God.  The epistle aims to reach a wide Jewish audience. During the last decades, the epistle of James has attracted increasing scholarly interest due to a surge in the quest for the historical James, his role within the Jesus movement, his beliefs, and his relationships and views. This James revival is also associated with an increasing level of awareness of the Jewish grounding of both the epistle and the early Jesus movement.
Who is the author of This? [SEP] List of best-selling fiction authors  This is a list of best-selling fiction authors to date, in any language. While finding precise sales numbers for any given author is nearly impossible, the list is based on approximate numbers provided or repeated by reliable sources. "Best selling" refers to the estimated number of copies sold of all fiction books written or co-written by an author. To keep the list manageable, only authors with estimated sales of at least 100 million are included. Authors of comic books are not included unless they have been published in book format (for example, comic albums, manga tankōbon volumes, trade paperbacks, or graphic novels).  Authors such as Miguel de Cervantes, Jane Austen, Alexandre Dumas, Charles Dickens, Arthur Conan Doyle, Victor Hugo, Jules Verne, Rick Riordan, Ernest Hemingway, Jack Higgins, Isaac Asimov and Leon Uris have not been included in the table because no exact figures could be found—although there are indications that they too have more than 100 million copies of their work in print.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP]  Johnny, My Friend (Swedish: Janne, min vän) is the first novel by the Swedish author Peter Pohl. It was published in Sweden in 1985. The English translation by Laurie Thompson was published in 1991.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] The 1996 film My Friend Joe is based on the book.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] Danish: Min bedste ven 1987 ; Norwegian: Janne min venn 1988 ; German: Jan, mein Freund 1990 (won the Deutscher Jugendliteraturpreis ) ; Dutch: Jan, mijn vriend 1991 ; English: Johnny, My Friend 1991 ; French: Jan, mon ami 1995 ; Italian: Il mio amico Jan 1996 ; Estonian: Janne, mu sõber 1997 ; Japanese: 『ヤンネ、ぼくの友だち』 1997 ; Icelandic: Janni vinur minn 1997 ; Low German: Jan, mien Fründ 2000 The novel has been translated into 11 languages:
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP]  Johnny, My Friend is narrated by 12-year-old Krille. Krille is a naive youth, having grown up in a safe, supporting family in 1950s Stockholm. A new boy, Johnny, appears in Krille's life, and quickly impresses the neighborhood boys with his bicycling prowess. His popularity aside, Johnny is a bit of a mystery, rarely saying anything about his life. The boys of the neighborhood do not know where he lives, and sometimes he disappears for long periods, only to turn up again without explanation. Krille determines to solve the mystery of Johnny.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP]  My Friend Joe is a 1996 film directed by Chris Bould starring Schuyler Fisk and John Cleere. The film is based on the 1985 Swedish novel Janne, min vän (Johnny, My Friend) by Peter Pohl.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] Johnny, My Friend  Johnny, My Friend (Swedish: "Janne, min vän") is the first novel by the Swedish author Peter Pohl. It was published in Sweden in 1985. The English translation by Laurie Thompson was published in 1991.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] The Outsiders (novel)  The Outsiders is a coming-of-age novel by S.E. Hinton, first published in 1967 by Viking Press. Hinton was only 15 when she started writing the novel; however, she did most of the work when she was 16 and a junior in high school. Hinton was 18 when the book was published. The book details the conflict between two rival gangs divided by their socioeconomic status: the working-class "greasers" and the upper-class "Socs" (pronounced —short for "Socials"). The story is told in first-person perspective by teenage protagonist Ponyboy Curtis.  The story in the book takes place in Tulsa, Oklahoma, in 1965,<ref name="sehinton1" /> but this is never explicitly stated in the book.  A film adaptation was produced in 1983 by Francis Ford Coppola, and a short-lived television series appeared in 1990, picking up where the movie left off. A dramatic stage adaptation was written by Christopher Sergel and published in 1990. A stage musical adaptation with a libretto by Adam Rapp and songs by Jamestown Revival is currently in the works as of 2022.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] Johnny Appleseed  John Chapman (September 26, 1774March 18, 1845), better known as Johnny Appleseed, was an American pioneer nurseryman who introduced apple trees to large parts of Pennsylvania, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, and Ontario, as well as the northern counties of present-day West Virginia. He became an American legend while still alive, due to his kind, generous ways, his leadership in conservation, and the symbolic importance he attributed to apples. He was also a missionary for The New Church (Swedenborgian) and the inspiration for many museums and historical sites such as the Johnny Appleseed Museum in Urbana, Ohio.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP] The Girl of My Best Friend  "The Girl of My Best Friend" is a song written by Sam Bobrick and Beverly Ross and first released in 1959 by Charlie Blackwell as the B-side to his single "Choppin' Mountains". It was later recorded by Marty Vine in 1960. It was made famous as a cover by Elvis Presley with The Jordanaires in 1960, the song peaked at No.9 in the U.K. singles chart (in 1976). It has also been covered by Ral Donner in 1960 (No.19 U.S.), Johnny Burnette in 1962 and by Bryan Ferry for his 1993 covers album "Taxi". A dance hall version was also released as a single in the 1990 by Tippa Irie and Peter Spence on GT's Records and Mango.
Who is the author of Johnny, My Friend? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]  The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical is a collection of dark fantasy short stories by American writer Darrell Schweitzer. It was first published in hardcover and trade paperback by Cosmos Books/Wildside Press in July 2001.
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]  The collection consists of sixteen works of the author, including one of his tales about the legendary madman Tom O'Bedlam. The pieces were originally published from 1978-2000 in various speculative fiction magazines and anthologies.
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP] "The Dragon of Camlann" (from The Chronicles of the Round Table, 1997) ; "Believing in the Twentieth Century" (from Terra Incognita no. 1, Win. 1996/1997) ; "Ghost" (from Interzone no. 139, Jan. 1999) ; "The Adventure of the Death-Fetch" (from The Game is Afoot, 1994) ; "The Unwanted Grail" (from The Chronicles of the Holy Grail, Nov. 1996) ; "I Told You So" (from Zodiac Fantastic, Sep. 1997) ; "The Murder of Etelven Thios" (from Weirdbook no. 14, Jun. 1979) ; "The Other Murder of Etelven Thios" (from Weirdbook no. 15, 1981) ; "The Final? Murder? of Etelven Thios?" (from Weirdbook no. 15, 1981) ; "Wanderers and Travellers We Were" (from Andromeda 3, 1978) ; "Silkie Son" (from Weirdbook no. 29, Aut. 1995) ; "Just Suppose" (from Horrors! 365 Scary Stories, Oct. 1998) ; "We Are the Dead" (from The Horror Show v. 6, no. 4, Win. 1988) ; "Tom O'Bedlam and the King of Dreams" (from Weird Tales v. 56, no. 1, Fall 1999) ; "The Invisible Knight's Squire" (from Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine, no. 48, Sum. 2000) ; "The Great World and the Small" (from Marion Zimmer Bradley's Fantasy Magazine no. 18, Win. 1993)
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP] Gigantic Worlds (Gigantic Books, 2015) ; Tiny Crimes: Very Short Tales of Mystery and Murder (Catapult, 2018) ; Tiny Nightmares: Very Short Tales of Horror (Catapult, 2020)
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]  The Great Land of Small (C'est pas parce qu'on est petit qu'on peut pas être grand!) is a 1986 Canadian fantasy children's film. It was written by David Sigmund and directed by Vojtěch Jasný. The film starred Michael J. Anderson in one of his first roles. The film is the 5th in the Tales for All (Contes Pour Tous) series of children's movies created by Les Productions la Fête.
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP] Darrell Schweitzer bibliography  Bibliography of dark fantasy, horror, science fiction and nonfiction writer Darrell Schweitzer:
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Great World and the Small: More Tales of the Ominous and Magical? [SEP] Into the Woods  Into the Woods is a 1987 musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by James Lapine.  The musical intertwines the plots of several Brothers Grimm fairy tales, exploring the consequences of the characters' wishes and quests. The main characters are taken from "Little Red Riding Hood" (spelled "Ridinghood" in the published vocal score), "Jack and the Beanstalk", "Rapunzel", and "Cinderella", as well as several others. The musical is tied together by a story involving a childless baker and his wife and their quest to begin a family (the original beginning of the Grimm Brothers' "Rapunzel"), their interaction with a witch who has placed a curse on them, and their interaction with other storybook characters during their journey.  The musical debuted in San Diego at the Old Globe Theatre in 1986 and premiered on Broadway on November 5, 1987, where it won three major Tony Awards (Best Score, Best Book, and Best Actress in a Musical for Joanna Gleason), in a year dominated by "The Phantom of the Opera" (1988). The musical has since been produced many times, with a 1988 US national tour, a 1990 West End production, a 1997 tenth anniversary concert, a 2002 Broadway revival, a 2010 London revival, and in 2012 as part of New York City's outdoor Shakespeare in the Park series.  A Disney film adaptation, directed by Rob Marshall, was released in 2014. The film grossed over $213 million worldwide, and received three nominations at both the Academy Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.  A second Broadway revival began performances on June 28, 2022 at the St. James Theatre. The same production will start touring the US in February 2023.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP]  Robots (ISBN: 978-0441013210) is a science fiction anthology edited by American writers Jack Dann and Gardner Dozois. It was published in 2005, and includes stories on the theme of "robots" that were originally published from 1985 to 2003, though mostly from the last few years of that range. It is the 32nd book in their anthology series for Ace Books.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP]   Robopocalypse (2011) is a science fiction novel by Daniel H. Wilson. The book portrays AI out of control when a researcher in robotics explores the capacity of robots. It is written in present tense. Writer Robert Crais and Booklist have compared the novel to the works of Michael Crichton and Robert A. Heinlein. It became a bestseller on the New York Times list.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP]  I, Robot is a fixup novel of science fiction short stories or essays by American writer Isaac Asimov. The stories originally appeared in the American magazines Super Science Stories and Astounding Science Fiction between 1940 and 1950 and were then compiled into a book for stand-alone publication by Gnome Press in 1950, in an initial edition of 5,000 copies. The stories are woven together by a framing narrative in which the fictional Dr. Susan Calvin tells each story to a reporter (who serves as the narrator) in the 21st century. Although the stories can be read separately, they share a theme of the interaction of humans, robots, and morality, and when combined they tell a larger story of Asimov's fictional history of robotics. Several of the stories
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP]  1991 – author of Rise of the Robots: Technology and the Threat of a Jobless Future, winner of the 2015 Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award • Arthur Furst - toxicologist and cancer researcher • Biruté Galdikas, B.S. 1966, M.A. 1969, Ph.D. 1978 – primatologist; considered the world's foremost expert in primatology • E. Mark Gold, Ph.D. 1965 – computer scientist • Louis M. Goldstein, Ph.D. 1977 – professor of linguistics and psychology, Yale University • Elliot Hirshman, M.A. 1984, Ph.D. 1987 – President of San Diego State University • David Ho – physician and AIDS researcher; 1996 Time Person
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] 2015 Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award winner for Rise of the Robots
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] Robot series  The "Robot" series is a series of 37 science fiction short stories and six novels by American writer Isaac Asimov, featuring positronic robots. Later, Asimov would merge the "Robot" series with his "Foundation" series.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] Three Laws of Robotics  The Three Laws of Robotics (often shortened to The Three Laws or known as Asimov's Laws) are a set of rules devised by science fiction author Isaac Asimov. The rules were introduced in his 1942 short story "Runaround" (included in the 1950 collection "I, Robot"), although they had been foreshadowed in some earlier stories. The Three Laws, quoted from the "Handbook of Robotics, 56th Edition, 2058 A.D.", are:   These form an organizing principle and unifying theme for Asimov's robotic-based fiction, appearing in his "Robot" series, the stories linked to it, and his "Lucky Starr" series of young-adult fiction. The Laws are incorporated into almost all of the positronic robots appearing in his fiction, and cannot be bypassed, being intended as a safety feature. Many of Asimov's robot-focused stories involve robots behaving in unusual and counter-intuitive ways as an unintended consequence of how the robot applies the Three Laws to the situation in which it finds itself. Other authors working in Asimov's fictional universe have adopted them and references, often parodic, appear throughout science fiction as well as in other genres.  The original laws have been altered and elaborated on by Asimov and other authors. Asimov himself made slight modifications to the first three in various books and short stories to further develop how robots would interact with humans and each other. In later fiction where robots had taken responsibility for government of whole planets and human civilizations, Asimov also added a fourth, or zeroth law, to precede the others:   The Three Laws, and the zeroth, have pervaded science fiction and are referred to in many books, films, and other media. They have affected thought on ethics of artificial intelligence as well.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] I, Robot  I, Robot is a fixup (compilation) novel of science fiction short stories or essays by American writer Isaac Asimov. The stories originally appeared in the American magazines "Super Science Stories" and "Astounding Science Fiction" between 1940 and 1950 and were then compiled into a book for stand-alone (single issue / special edition) publication by Gnome Press in 1950, in an initial edition of 5,000 copies. The stories are woven together by a framing narrative in which the fictional Dr. Susan Calvin tells each story to a reporter (who serves as the narrator) in the 21st century. Although the stories can be read separately, they share a theme of the interaction of humans, robots, and morality, and when combined they tell a larger story of Asimov's fictional history of robotics.  Several of the stories feature the character of Dr. Calvin, chief robopsychologist at U.S. Robots and Mechanical Men, Inc., the major manufacturer of robots. Upon their publication in this collection, Asimov wrote a framing sequence presenting the stories as Calvin's reminiscences during an interview with her about her life's work, chiefly concerned with aberrant behaviour of robots and the use of "robopsychology" to sort out what is happening in their positronic brain. The book also contains the short story in which Asimov's Three Laws of Robotics first appear, which had large influence on later science fiction and had impact on thought on ethics of artificial intelligence as well. Other characters that appear in these short stories are Powell and Donovan, a field-testing team which locates flaws in USRMM's prototype models.  The collection shares a title with the then recent short story "I, Robot" (1939) by Eando Binder (pseudonym of Earl and Otto Binder), which greatly influenced Asimov. Asimov had wanted to call his collection "Mind and Iron" and objected when the publisher made the title the same as Binder's. In his introduction to the story in "Isaac Asimov Presents the Great SF Stories" (1979), Asimov wrote:
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] Robots in literature  Artificial humans and autonomous artificial servants have a long history in human culture, though the term Robot and its modern literary conception as a mobile machine equipped with an advanced artificial intelligence are more fairly recent. The literary role of artificial life has evolved over time: early myths present animated objects as instruments of divine will, later stories treat their attempted creation as a blasphemy with inevitable consequences, and modern tales range from apocalyptic warnings against blind technological progress to explorations of the ethical questions raised by the possibility of sentient machines.  Recently, a popular overview of the history of androids, robots, cyborgs and replicants from antiquity to the present has been published. Treated fields of knowledge are: history of technology, history of medicine, philosophy, literature, film and art history, the range of topics discussed is worldwide.
Who is the author of Robots? [SEP] R.U.R.  R.U.R. is a 1920 science-fiction play by the Czech writer Karel Čapek. "R.U.R." stands for (Rossum's Universal Robots, a phrase that has been used as a subtitle in English versions). The play had its world premiere on 2 January 1921 in Hradec Králové; it introduced the word "robot" to the English language and to science fiction as a whole. "R.U.R." soon became influential after its publication. By 1923, it had been translated into thirty languages. "R.U.R." was successful in its time in Europe and North America. Čapek later took a different approach to the same theme in his 1936 novel "War with the Newts", in which non-humans become a servant-class in human society.<ref name="ar"> Roberts, Adam "Introduction", to "RUR & War with the Newts". London, Gollancz, 2011, (pp. vi–ix).</ref>
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP]  The Outdoor Survival Handbook is a 1992 survival book by Ray Mears. First published as The Complete Outdoor Handbook; The book is divided into four sections, one for each season with chapters on clothing, survival skills and tools for each. Includes illustrations by Paul Bryant.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP]  The Survival Handbook: A Practical Guide to Woodcraft and Woodlore is a book written by author, television presenter and outdoorsman Ray Mears. It was first published on 1 March 1990 by The Oxford Illustrated Press and then re-printed by The Promotional Reprint Co Ltd in 1994. It is a guidebook to outdoor life, survival and camping. The difference between the two versions being that the colour photographs were printed on glossy paper in the First Edition. It contains sections on the basics of outdoor skill, making fire by friction, obtaining food, and working with stone, flint and bone as well as working animal hide.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] The Survival Handbook (1990) ; The Outdoor Survival Handbook (1992) ; Ray Mears' World of Survival (1997) ; Bushcraft (2002) ; Essential Bushcraft (2003) ; The Real Heroes of Telemark: The True Story of the Secret Mission to Stop Hitler's Atomic Bomb (2003) ; Ray Mears' Bushcraft Survival (2005) ; Wild Food by Ray Mears & Professor Gordon Hillman (2007) ; Ray Mears Goes Walkabout (2008) ; Vanishing World - A Life of Bushcraft (2008) ; Northern Wilderness (2009) ; My Outdoor Life (2013) ; Out on the Land: Bushcraft Skills from the Northern Forest (2016) ; Wilderness Chef: The Ultimate Guide to Cooking Outdoors (2020) ; We Are Nature: How to reconnect with the wild (2021)
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP]  House, Scott Johnston, Training for the New Alpinism: A Manual for the Climber as Athlete ; 2014 : Yvon Chouinard, Craig Mathews and Mauro Mazzo, Simple Fly Fishing: Techniques for Tenkara and Rod & Reel ; 2015: Nate Ostis, NOLS River Rescue Guide ; 2016 : Dave Hall with Jon Ulrich, Winter in the Wilderness: A Field Guide to Primitive Survival Skills ; 2017: Liz Thomas, Backpacker Long Trails: Mastering the Art of the Thru-hike ; 2017: Charles R. Farabee, Big Walls, Swift Waters: Epic Stories from Yosemite Search and Rescue ; 2018: Molly Absolon, The Ultimate Guide to Whitewater Rafting and River Camping
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP]  Outdoor Survival was designed by Jim Dunnigan, and published by Avalon Hill in 1972. It comes with three full-color interlocking, folding maps; some cards; and rules. The game became one of Avalon Hill's perennial bestsellers, with its success attributed chiefly to the fact that it was sold outside regular channels — in outdoor equipment shops and the like.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] The Outdoor Survival Handbook  The Outdoor Survival Handbook is a 1992 survival book by Ray Mears. First published as "The Complete Outdoor Handbook"; The book is divided into four sections, one for each season with chapters on clothing, survival skills and tools for each. Includes illustrations by Paul Bryant.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] The Survival Handbook  The Survival Handbook: A Practical Guide to Woodcraft and Woodlore is a book written by author, television presenter and outdoorsman Ray Mears. It was first published on 1 March 1990 by The Oxford Illustrated Press and then re-printed by The Promotional Reprint Co Ltd in 1994. It is a guidebook to outdoor life, survival and camping. The difference between the two versions being that the colour photographs were printed on glossy paper in the First Edition. It contains sections on the basics of outdoor skill, making fire by friction, obtaining food, and working with stone, flint and bone as well as working animal hide.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] Wilderness Survival Guide  The Wilderness Survival Guide is a supplement to the "Advanced Dungeons and Dragons" ("AD&D") role-playing game, written by Kim Mohan and published by TSR, Inc. in 1986 ().
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] Mors Kochanski  Mors Kochanski (November 10, 1940 – December 5, 2019) was a Canadian bushcraft and wilderness survival instructor, naturalist, and author. He acquired an international following and instructed for both military and civilians in Canada, the US, the UK and Sweden. He died from peritoneal mesothelioma in 2019.
Who is the author of The Outdoor Survival Handbook? [SEP] Ray Mears  Raymond Paul Mears (born 7 February 1964) is a British woodsman, instructor, businessman, author and TV presenter. His TV appearances cover bushcraft and survival techniques. He is best known for the TV series "Ray Mears' Bushcraft", "Ray Mears' World of Survival", "Extreme Survival", "Survival with Ray Mears", "Wild Britain with Ray Mears" and "Ray Mears Goes Walkabout".
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP]  Millennialist thinking first emerged in Jewish apocryphal literature of the tumultuous Second Temple period, Gerschom Scholem profiles medieval and early modern Jewish millennialist teachings in his book Sabbatai Sevi, the mystical messiah, which focuses on the 17th-century movement centered on the self-proclaimed messiahship (1648) of Sabbatai Zevi (16261676).
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP]  an active poet, and published Kinesis, a little magazine devoted to poetry which helped to launch the careers of writers including Sonya Dorman. Her short stories included "Kangaroo Court", published in 1966 in Damon Knight's Orbit 1, and later reprinted as "Flowering Season". She edited or co-edited several science fiction anthologies: Saving Worlds: A Collection of Original Science Fiction Stories (with Roger Elwood, 1973); The Wounded Planet (1974); The Best of Judith Merril (1976); Millennial Women (1978); Interfaces: An Anthology of Speculative Fiction (1980) and Edges: Thirteen New Tales from the Borderlands of the Imagination (1980) (the latter two with client and friend Ursula K. Le Guin). Millennial Women received the 12th Locus Award in 1979.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP]  He is the author of The Way We'll Be: The Zogby Report on the Transformation of the American Dream (Random House, 2008) and is co-author of the forthcoming First Globals: Understanding, Managing, and Unleashing Our Millennial Generation (with Joan Snyder Kuhl). His latest book, published in 2016, is entitled We Are Many, We Are One: Neo-Tribes and Tribal Analytics in 21st Century America, emphasizes a new paradigm for moving beyond demographics by allowing people who participated in the survey research to define themselves based on their attributes and values. The result is what Zogby describes as a bottom-up approach to segmentation analysis. Additionally, Zogby writes weekly columns on Forbes.com and contributes a weekly Presidential report card for The Washington Examiner's Washington Secrets, by Paul Bedard. He is also a founding contributor to The Huffington Post.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP]  The Theosophist Alice Bailey taught that Christ (in her books she refers to the powerful spiritual being best known by Theosophists as Maitreya as The Christ or The World Teacher, not as Maitreya) would return “sometime after AD 2025”, and that this would be the New Age equivalent of the Christian concept of the Second Coming of Christ.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP]  book on American history he'd ever read. He even sent a copy to each member of Congress. The Fourth Turning made a deep impression on Steve Bannon, who wrote and directed Generation Zero (2010), a Citizens United Productions film on the book's theory, prior to his becoming White House Chief Strategist. Howe and Strauss also co-authored 13th Gen (1993) about Generation X, and Millennials Rising (2000) about the Millennial Generation. Eric Hoover has called the authors pioneers in a burgeoning industry of consultants, speakers and researchers focused on generations. He wrote a critical piece about the concept of "generations" and the "Millennials" (a term coined by
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP] Millennial Rites  Millennial Rites is an original novel written by Craig Hinton and based on the long-running British science fiction television series "Doctor Who". It features the Sixth Doctor and Mel.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP] Digital Millennium Copyright Act  The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) is a 1998 United States copyright law that implements two 1996 treaties of the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO). It criminalizes production and dissemination of technology, devices, or services intended to circumvent measures that control access to copyrighted works (commonly known as digital rights management or DRM). It also criminalizes the act of circumventing an access control, whether or not there is actual infringement of copyright itself. In addition, the DMCA heightens the penalties for copyright infringement on the Internet. Passed on October 12, 1998, by a unanimous vote in the United States Senate and signed into law by President Bill Clinton on October 28, 1998, the DMCA amended Title 17 of the United States Code to extend the reach of copyright, while limiting the liability of the providers of online services for copyright infringement by their users.  The DMCA's principal innovation in the field of copyright is the exemption from direct and indirect liability of Internet service providers and other intermediaries. This exemption was adopted by the European Union in the Electronic Commerce Directive 2000. The Information Society Directive 2001 implemented the 1996 WIPO Copyright Treaty in the EU.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP] Millennials  Millennials, also known as Generation Y or Gen Y, are the Western demographic cohort following Generation X and preceding Generation Z. Researchers and popular media use the early 1980s as starting birth years and the mid-1990s to early 2000s as ending birth years, with the generation typically being defined as people born from 1981 to 1996. millennials are often the parents of Generation Alpha.  Across the globe, young people have postponed marriage.<ref name=":65" /> Millennials were born at a time of declining fertility rates around the world,<ref name=":23" /> and are having fewer children than their predecessors.<ref name=":182" /><ref name="van de Water" /><ref name="Bodin" /><ref name=":410" /> Those in developing nations will continue to constitute the bulk of global population growth.<ref name=":232" /> In the developed world, young people of the 2010s were less inclined to have sexual intercourse compared to their predecessors when they were at the same age.<ref name=":63" /> In the West, they are less likely to be religious than their predecessors, but they may identify as spiritual.<ref name=":64" /><ref name=":23" />  Millennials have been described as the first global generation and the first generation that grew up in the Internet age. The generation is generally marked by elevated usage of and familiarity with the Internet, mobile devices, and social media, which is why they are sometimes termed digital natives.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP] Craig Hinton  Craig Paul Alexander Hinton (7 May 1964 – 3 December 2006) was a British writer best known for his work on various spin-offs from the BBC Television series "Doctor Who".  He also wrote articles for various science fiction magazines, and was the Coordinator of the Doctor Who Appreciation Society. He most recently lived in London, where he taught mathematics. Hinton was found dead in his home on 3 December 2006. The cause of death was given as heart attack.
Who is the author of Millennial Rites? [SEP] Millennialism  Millennialism (from millennium, Latin for "a thousand years") or chiliasm (from the Greek equivalent) is a belief advanced by some religious denominations that a Golden Age or Paradise will occur on Earth prior to the final judgment and future eternal state of the "World to Come".  Christianity and Judaism have both produced messianic movements which featured millennialist teachings—such as the notion that an earthly kingdom of God was at hand. These millenarian movements often led to considerable social unrest.  Similarities to millennialism appear in Zoroastrianism, which identified successive thousand-year periods, each of which will end in a cataclysm of heresy and destruction, until the final destruction of evil and of the spirit of evil by a triumphant king of peace at the end of the final millennial age. "Then Saoshyant makes the creatures again pure, and the resurrection and future existence occur" ("Zand-i Vohuman Yasht 3:62").  Scholars have also linked various other social and political movements, both religious and secular, to millennialist metaphors.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP]  Shame is a novel by the Swedish crime-writer Karin Alvtegen, originally published as Skam in Sweden in 2005. It was translated into English by Steven T. Murray in 2006 and was shortlisted for the Duncan Lawrie International Dagger award for crime novels in translation.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP]  Laurence Shames is an American writer.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP]  Goodman's debut novel is titled The Shame. She wrote it in secret, only telling her husband Sam and her agent about it after completing the first draft, which she wrote around 2015 after reading a book about psychoanalytic theory; she was particularly inspired by the book's analysis of Eros and Psyche. The book's title was suggested by Goodman's friend Sheila Heti. It was published by Milkweed Editions.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP]  Shame is a 2011 British psychological drama film, set in New York, directed by Steve McQueen, co-written by McQueen and Abi Morgan, and starring Michael Fassbender and Carey Mulligan as grown siblings. It was co-produced by Film4 and See-Saw Films. The film's explicit scenes reflecting the protagonist's sexual addiction resulted in a rating of NC-17 in the United States. Shame was released in the United Kingdom on 13 January 2012. It received generally positive reviews, with praise for Fassbender's and Mulligan's performance, realistic depiction of sexual addiction, and direction.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] 1) Shame ISBN: 978-0340924600 (25 January 2007) ; 2) Daughters of Shame ISBN: 978-0340997826 (6 August 2009) ; 3) Shame Travels (2011)
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] Shame (Rushdie novel)  Shame is Salman Rushdie's third novel, published in 1983. This book was written out of a desire to approach the problem of "artificial" (other-made) country divisions, their residents' complicity, and the problems of post-colonialism when Pakistan was created to separate the Muslims from the Hindus after Britain gave up control of India.  The book is written in the style of magic realism. It portrays the lives of Iskander Harappa (sometimes assumed to be Zulfikar Ali Bhutto), and  General Raza Hyder (sometimes assumed to be General Muhammad Zia-ul-Haq), and their relationship. The central theme of the novel is that begetting "shame" begets violence. The concepts of 'shame' and 'shamelessness' are explored through all of the characters, with the main focus being on Sufiya Zinobia and Omar Khayyám.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] Lajja (novel)  Lajja ( "Lôjja") ("Shame") is a novel in Bengali by Taslima Nasrin, a writer of Bangladesh. The word "lajja/lôjja" means "shame" in Bengali and many other Indo-Aryan languages. The book was first published in 1993 in Bengali and was subsequently banned in Bangladesh. It nonetheless sold 50,000 copies in the six months after its publication, though Taslima fled her native Bangladesh after receiving death threats from Islamic groups.  Nasrin dedicated the book "to the people of the Indian subcontinent," beginning the text with the words, "let humanity be the other name of religion." The novel is preceded by a preface and a chronology of events.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] The Shame of the Cities  The Shame of the Cities is a book written by American author Lincoln Steffens. Published in 1904, it is a collection of articles which Steffens had written for "McClure’s Magazine". It reports on the workings of corrupt political machines in several major U.S. cities, along with a few efforts to combat them. It is considered one of several early major pieces of muckraking journalism, though Steffens later claimed that this work made him "the first muckraker."  Though Steffens' subject was municipal corruption, he did not present his work as an exposé of corruption; rather, he wanted to draw attention to the public's complicity in allowing corruption to continue. Steffens tried to advance a theory of city corruption: corruption, he claimed, was the result of "big business men" who corrupted city government for their own ends, and "the typical business man"—average Americans—who ignored politics and allowed such corruption to continue. He framed his work as an attempt "to sound for the civic pride of an apparently shameless citizenship," by making the public face their responsibility in the persistence of municipal corruption.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] The Shame of the Nation  The Shame of the Nation: The Restoration of Apartheid Schooling in America is a book by educator and author Jonathan Kozol. It describes how, in the United States, black and Hispanic students tend to be concentrated in schools where they make up almost the entire student body.  Kozol visited nearly 60 public schools in preparation for writing the book. He found that conditions had grown worse for inner-city children in the 50 years since the Supreme Court in the landmark ruling of "Brown v. Board of Education" dismantled the previous policy of "de jure" segregated schools and their concept of "separate but equal". In many cities, wealthier white families continued to leave the city to settle in suburbs, with minorities comprising most of the families left in the public school system. In the book Kozol quotes Gary Orfield of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, who says, "American public schools are now 12 years into the process of continuous resegregation. . . . During the 1990s, the proportion of black students in majority white schools has decreased . . . to a level lower than in any year since 1968."  In his earlier books, like "Amazing Grace", Kozol wrote that the schools of the South Bronx were stunningly segregated. But in the last five years, Kozol said that he "... realized how sweeping this change has been throughout the nation, and how reluctant the media is to speak of it." Newspapers he says "... refuse to see what is in their own front yard ... in a description of a 98 percent black and Latino school, the newspaper won't say what would seem to be the most obvious starting point: This is a deeply segregated school. They won't use the word 'segregated.'"  In the book, Kozol attacks the disparity in expenditures on education between central cities and well-to-do suburbs, and the system of property taxes which most school systems and states rely on for funding.
Who is the author of Shame? [SEP] The Ship That Died of Shame  The Ship That Died of Shame, released in the United States as PT Raiders, is a black-and-white 1955 Ealing Studios crime film directed by Basil Dearden and starring George Baker, Richard Attenborough, Roland Culver and Bill Owen.  The film is based on a story written by Nicholas Monsarrat (better known as the author of "The Cruel Sea"), which originally appeared in "Lilliput" magazine in 1952. It was later published in a collection of short stories, "The Ship That Died of Shame and other stories", in 1959.  Despite being produced by Ealing Studios, the film was shot at the film studios at Wembley Park in north-west London. It was the last feature film to be made there.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  A Burning is a novel by Indian-born author Megha Majumdar released in June 2020. By December 2020, the novel was on 13 lists of the best books of 2020, according to Literary Hub.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] The Burning (1991) ISBN: 0875795218 ; The Santa Claus Book (published under the pseudonym Alden Perkes, 1982) ISBN: 978-0818403811
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  The Book of Burning is an album by the American heavy metal band Virgin Steele. It was released in January 2002 by Noise Records to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the band, together with the compilation Hymns to Victory. The Book of Burning caused a controversy between founding members David DeFeis and Jack Starr about the format of the recording, with the result of Starr renouncing any involvement in the production of the album and in other reunion projects. According to the CD booklet, the album was recorded from June to August 2001, except "Conjuration of the Watcher", which was recorded in 1999 during "The House Of Atreus Act I" sessions.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  During World War II the French writer and anti-Nazi resistance fighter André Malraux worked on a long novel, The Struggle Against the Angel, the manuscript of which was destroyed by the Gestapo upon his capture in 1944. The name was apparently inspired by the Jacob story in the Bible. A surviving opening part named The Walnut Trees of Altenburg, was published after the war.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  Burning Grass is a novel by Nigerian author Cyprian Ekwensi. It was published in 1962 as the second book in Heinemann's African Writers Series.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Mississippi Burning  Mississippi Burning is a 1988 American crime thriller film directed by Alan Parker that is loosely based on the 1964 murder investigation of Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner in Mississippi. It stars Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe as two FBI agents investigating the disappearance of three civil rights workers in fictional Jessup County, Mississippi, who are met with hostility by the town's residents, local police, and the Ku Klux Klan.  Screenwriter Chris Gerolmo began the script in 1985 after researching the 1964 murders of James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner. He and producer Frederick Zollo presented it to Orion Pictures, and the studio hired Parker to direct the film. The writer and director had disputes over the script, and Orion allowed Parker to make uncredited rewrites. The film was shot in a number of locations in Mississippi and Alabama, with principal photography from March to May 1988.  On release, "Mississippi Burning" was criticized by activists involved in the civil rights movement and the families of Chaney, Goodman and Schwerner for its fictionalization of events. Critical reaction was generally positive, with praise aimed towards the performances of Hackman, Dafoe and Frances McDormand. The film grossed $34.6 million in North America against a production budget of $15 million. It received seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, and won for Best Cinematography.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Book burning  Book burning is the deliberate destruction by fire of books or other written materials, usually carried out in a public context. The burning of books represents an element of censorship and usually proceeds from a cultural, religious, or political opposition to the materials in question. Book burning can be an act of contempt for the book's contents or author, intended to draw wider public attention to this opinion, or conceal the information contained in the text from being made public, such as diaries or ledgers.   In some cases, the destroyed works are irreplaceable and their burning constitutes a severe loss to cultural heritage. Examples include the burning of books and burying of scholars under China's Qin Dynasty (213–210 BCE), the destruction of the House of Wisdom during the Mongol siege of Baghdad (1258), the destruction of Aztec codices by Itzcoatl (1430s), the burning of Maya codices on the order of bishop Diego de Landa (1562), and the burning of Jaffna Public Library in Sri Lanka (1981).<ref name="smithsonian" />  In other cases, such as the Nazi book burnings, copies of the destroyed books survive, but the instance of book burning becomes emblematic of a harsh and oppressive regime which is seeking to censor or silence some aspect of prevailing culture.  In modern times, other forms of media, such as phonograph records, video tapes, and CDs have also been burned, shredded, or crushed. Art destruction is related to book burning, both because it might have similar cultural, religious, or political connotations, and because in various historical cases, books and artworks were destroyed at the same time.  When the burning is widespread and systematic, destruction of books and media can become a significant component of cultural genocide.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Burning the Books  Burning the Books: A History of the Deliberate Destruction of Knowledge is a 2020 book by Bodleian Libraries Director Richard Ovenden on the history of intentional recorded knowledge destruction. It was shortlisted for the 2021 Wolfson History Prize.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] A Burning  A Burning is a novel by Indian-born author Megha Majumdar released in June 2020. By December 2020, the novel was on 13 lists of the best books of 2020, according to Literary Hub.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Burning Love  "Burning Love" is a 1972 song by Elvis Presley written by Dennis Linde, originally released by Arthur Alexander earlier in 1972. Elvis Presley had a major hit with the song, becoming his biggest hit single in the United States since "Suspicious Minds" in 1969 and his last Top 10 hit in the American Hot 100 or pop charts.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]  Second Generation is a 1964 novel by Raymond Williams, set in the 1960s. The contrasting worlds of the university and the factory, and individuals who try to find their place among contradictory forces.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]  V: The Second Generation is a novel written by American telewriter/producer Kenneth Johnson. It is an alternative sequel to his 1983 science fiction television miniseries V, which depicted an advanced race of carnivorous reptilians known as "The Visitors".
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]  The Second Generation is a collection of five novellas in the fantasy genre by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman. It is part of the Dragonlance series.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]  Harold Owen, his brother Gwyn, son Peter and wife Kate all experience the contrasts. The book is based on the actual situation in Oxford of the 1960s, where the ancient university was right next to Morris Motors, as it then was.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]  Dwitiyo Manob or Ditiyo Manob (The second generation) is a Bengali science fiction written by Bangladeshi writer Humayun Ahmed. This novel deals with the super natural powers of Homo superior (the next generation of Homo sapiens) and it is inspired by 1911 science fiction novel The Hampdenshire Wonder.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP] The Second Generation  The Second Generation is a collection of five novellas in the fantasy genre by Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman. It is part of the Dragonlance series.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP] V The Second Generation  V: The Second Generation is a novel written by American telewriter/producer Kenneth Johnson. It is an alternative sequel to his 1983 science fiction television miniseries "V", which depicted an advanced race of carnivorous reptilians known as "The Visitors".
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP] Romantic literature in English  Romanticism was an artistic, literary, and intellectual movement that originated in Europe toward the end of the 18th century. Scholars regard the publishing of William Wordsworth's and Samuel Coleridge's "Lyrical Ballads" in 1798 as probably the beginning of the movement, and the crowning of Queen Victoria in 1837 as its end. Romanticism arrived in other parts of the English-speaking world later; in the United States, it arrived around 1820.  The Romantic period was one of major social change in England, due to the depopulation of the countryside and the rapid development of overcrowded industrial cities that took place roughly between 1798 and 1832. The movement of so many people in England was the result of two forces: the Agricultural Revolution, which involved enclosures that drove workers and their families off the land, and the Industrial Revolution which provided them employment, "in the factories and mills, operated by machines driven by steam-power". Indeed, Romanticism may be seen in part as a reaction to the Industrial Revolution, though it was also a revolt against aristocratic social and political norms of the Age of Enlightenment, as well as a reaction against the scientific rationalization of nature. The French Revolution was an especially important influence on the political thinking of many notable Romantic figures at this time as well.
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP] John Keats  John Keats (31 October 1795 – 23 February 1821) was an English poet of the second generation of Romantic poets, with Lord Byron and Percy Bysshe Shelley. His poems had been in publication for less than four years when he died of tuberculosis at the age of 25. They were indifferently received in his lifetime, but his fame grew rapidly after his death. By the end of the century, he was placed in the canon of English literature, strongly influencing many writers of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood; the "Encyclopædia Britannica" of 1888 called one ode "one of the final masterpieces". Jorge Luis Borges named his first encounter with Keats an experience he felt all his life. Keats had a style "heavily loaded with sensualities", notably in the series of odes. Typically of the Romantics, he accentuated extreme emotion through natural imagery. Today his poems and letters remain among the most popular and analysed in English literature – in particular "Ode to a Nightingale", "Ode on a Grecian Urn", "Sleep and Poetry" and the sonnet "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer".
Who is the author of Second Generation? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP]  The Death Guard is the only published novel of the English author Philip George Chadwick (1893 in Batley, Yorkshire &ndash; 1955 in Brighton, Sussex). Although the author is virtually unknown to the wider public, his work has received attention from literary scholars. The novel contains many themes later developed by L Ron Hubbard and James Blish. Chadwick was a political thinker with socialist tendencies, a Fabian and subsequently an Independent and a disciple of H.G. Wells. Legend has it that H.G. Wells used to refer to this book as one of the greatest he had ever read. It was written shortly after World War I, but by the time it was picked up for publication, World
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP]  The book was first published in 1967 (Number A261X) by Award Books part of the Beacon-Signal division of Universal Publishing and Distributing Corporation (New York, USA), part of the Conde Nast Publications Inc. The novel was written by Manning Lee Stokes. Copyright was registered on 12 October 1967.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP]  Guard is now a fully accredited child psychotherapist living in London and has written more than ten books for children, including "Little Box of Mermaid Treasures", "Pirate Fun", "The Dragon Master's Tale", and "Secrets of the Fairy Ring".
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP]  New Guard is the eighteenth and final novel in the CHERUB series by Robert Muchamore, and the fifth and final book in the Aramov series. It was published on 31 May 2016.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP]  The Old Guard was an American magazine published from 1863 to 1867 by Charles Chauncey Burr in New York City. Burr was a staunch enemy of the American Civil War as well as a defender of slavery. The first edition of the magazine opened with an unsigned article on the cost of war to the Northern states, and its second article, written and signed by Burr, attacks and scorns noted abolitionists such as Henry Ward Beecher, warning that they might "turn our country into an African jungle." Burr, who was an intimate friend of Edgar Allan Poe, used the magazine to publish a number of articles advocating Poe and later defending his reputation (all the while attacking Poe's critical biographer, Rufus Wilmot Griswold). In 1869, he stopped editing the magazine and his position was taken over by Thomas Dunn English, who had an ongoing feud with Poe and published two anti-Poe and pro-Griswold articles in the magazine, the second one of which was published in the magazine's last issue, October 1870.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP] John Michael McDonagh  John Michael McDonagh (born 7 November 1967) is a screenwriter and film director with Irish and British nationality. He wrote and directed "The Guard" (2011) and "Calvary" (2014), both films starring Brendan Gleeson, receiving a BAFTA Award nomination for the former. He was born in London in 1967. He is the older brother of playwright and filmmaker Martin McDonagh.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP] The Death Guard  The Death Guard is the only published novel of the English author Philip George Chadwick (1893 in Batley, Yorkshire – 1955 in Brighton, Sussex). Although the author is virtually unknown to the wider public, his work has received attention from literary scholars. The novel contains many themes later developed by L Ron Hubbard and James Blish.<ref name="Nicholls1979p109" /> Chadwick was a political thinker with socialist tendencies, a Fabian and subsequently an Independent and a disciple of H.G. Wells.  Legend has it that H.G. Wells used to refer to this book as one of the greatest he had ever read. It was written shortly after World War I, but by the time it was picked up for publication, World War II was already underway and allegedly, Chadwick had been killed in combat, though the 1992 paperback states that he died in 1955. To complicate matters even further, the printing house that was handling the first run of the novel was bombed in an air raid, and almost all copies were destroyed. Consequently, most science fiction fans wrote off "The Death Guard" as pure myth, a figment of Wells's prodigious imagination,<ref name="Darren Callahan" /> and for years it was considered a lost novel. In 1992 it was republished, with an introduction by Brian Aldiss.<ref name="rc">Amy Wallace, Del Howison, and Scott Bradley, "The Book of Lists: Horror". HarperPaperbacks, (p.245)</ref>  "The Death Guard" was cited in Karl Edward Wagner's "The Thirteen Best Science Fiction Horror Novels" <ref>N. G. Christakos, "Three By Thirteen: The Karl Edward Wagner Lists" in  "Black Prometheus: A Critical Study of Karl Edward Wagner", ed. Benjamin Szumskyj, Gothic Press 2007. </ref> and Ramsey Campbell's "Thirteen Novels on the Edge of Horror".<ref name="rc" />
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP] Alex Haley  Alexander Murray Palmer Haley (August 11, 1921 – February 10, 1992)  Haley's first book was "The Autobiography of Malcolm X", published in 1965, a collaboration through numerous lengthy interviews with Malcolm X.  He was working on a second family history novel at his death. Haley had requested that David Stevens, a screenwriter, complete it; the book was published as "." It was adapted as a miniseries, "Alex Haley's Queen", broadcast in 1993.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP] The Lion Guard  The Lion Guard is an American animated television series developed by Ford Riley and based on Disney's 1994 film "The Lion King". The series was first broadcast with a television film titled The Lion Guard: Return of the Roar on Disney Channel on November 22, 2015, and began airing as a TV series on January 15, 2016, on Disney Junior. It is the second television series to be based on "The Lion King," the first being "Timon & Pumbaa" (1995–1999). "The Lion Guard" is a sequel and spin-off to "The Lion King", and takes place during the time-gap within the 1998 film "",<ref name="Brett" /> with the third and final season taking place in parallel with the film's second act, followed by the final two episodes of the series serving as an epilogue to the film.  The second season premiered on July 7, 2017, followed by the third on August 3, 2019, with the series finale airing on November 3 the same year.
Who is the author of The Guard? [SEP] The Old Guard (2020 film)  The Old Guard is a 2020 American superhero film directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood and written by Greg Rucka, based on his comic book of the same name. The film stars Charlize Theron, KiKi Layne, Matthias Schoenaerts, Marwan Kenzari, Luca Marinelli, Harry Melling, Veronica Ngo, and Chiwetel Ejiofor, and follows a team of immortal mercenaries on a revenge mission.  "The Old Guard" was released on July 10, 2020, on Netflix. It received generally positive reviews from critics, with praise for the action sequences and Theron's performance. A sequel is in production with Victoria Mahoney directing the film.
Who is the author of West? [SEP]  West's first novel published under his own name was Gallows on the Sand (1955), written in seven days. He followed it with Kundu (1956), a New Guinea adventure written in three weeks. He also wrote a play, The Illusionists (1955). West moved to Europe with his family. His third novel was The Big Story (1957), which was later filmed as The Crooked Road (1965). A trip to Naples led to meeting Father Borelli who worked with the street boys of Naples. This resulted in the non-fiction book Children of the Sun (1957) which was West's first international success. According to a later profile on the author: "With this work, West not only found his way as a writer but discovered the theme that would underpin almost all of his subsequent books — the nature and misuse of power.
Who is the author of West? [SEP]  Elliott West (born April 19, 1945) is an American historian and author. He studies the history of the American West.
Who is the author of West? [SEP]  Attribution
Who is the author of West? [SEP]  Anthony West (4 August 1914 – 27 December 1987) was an English author and literary critic.
Who is the author of West? [SEP]  The Mysterious West is an anthology edited by Tony Hillerman and published by HarperTorch (an imprint of HarperCollins) in 1994. The book went on to win the Anthony Award for Best Short Story Collection in 1995.
Who is the author of West? [SEP] Rebecca West  Dame Cicily Isabel Fairfield (21 December 1892 – 15 March 1983), known as Rebecca West, or Dame Rebecca West, was a British author, journalist, literary critic and travel writer. An author who wrote in many genres, West reviewed books for "The Times", the "New York Herald Tribune", "The Sunday Telegraph" and "The New Republic", and she was a correspondent for "The Bookman". Her major works include "Black Lamb and Grey Falcon" (1941), on the history and culture of Yugoslavia; "A Train of Powder" (1955), her coverage of the Nuremberg trials, published originally in "The New Yorker"; "The Meaning of Treason" (first published as a magazine article in 1945 and then expanded to the book in 1947), later "The New Meaning of Treason" (1964), a study of the trial of the British fascist William Joyce and others; "The Return of the Soldier" (1918), a modernist World War I novel; and the "Aubrey trilogy" of autobiographical novels, "The Fountain Overflows" (1956), "This Real Night" (published posthumously in 1984), and "Cousin Rosamund" (1985). "Time" called her "indisputably the world's number one woman writer" in 1947. She was made CBE in 1949, and DBE in 1959; in each case, the citation reads: "writer and literary critic". She took the pseudonym "Rebecca West" from the rebellious young heroine in "Rosmersholm" by Henrik Ibsen. She was a recipient of the Benson Medal.
Who is the author of West? [SEP] Anthony West (author)  Anthony West (4 August 1914 – 27 December 1987) was an English author and literary critic.
Who is the author of West? [SEP] Nathanael West  Nathanael West (born Nathan Weinstein; October 17, 1903 – December 22, 1940) was an American writer and screenwriter. He is remembered for two darkly satirical novels: "Miss Lonelyhearts" (1933) and "The Day of the Locust" (1939), set respectively in the newspaper and Hollywood film industries.
Who is the author of West? [SEP] List of Western fiction authors  This is a list of some notable authors in the western fiction genre.  Note that some writers listed below have also written in other genres.
Who is the author of West? [SEP] Jacqueline West (author)  Jacqueline West (born December 29, 1979) is an American writer of children's fiction and poet. Her poetry has been nominated for the Pushcart Prize and her "Books of Elsewhere" fantasy series has appeared on the New York Times Best Seller list.
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP]  Nuclear Alert is the thirteenth story arc in Buck Danny, a Franco-Belgian comic book series by Jean-Michel Charlier and.
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP]  Stanley Kubrick started with nothing but a vague idea to make a thriller about a nuclear accident that built on the widespread Cold War fear for survival. While doing research, Kubrick gradually became aware of the subtle and paradoxical "balance of terror" between nuclear powers. At Kubrick's request, Alastair Buchan (the head of the Institute for Strategic Studies) recommended the thriller novel Red Alert by Peter George. Kubrick was impressed with the book, which had also been praised by game theorist and future Nobel Prize in Economics winner Thomas Schelling in an article written for the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists and reprinted in The Observer, and immediately bought the film rights. In 2006, Schelling wrote that conversations between Kubrick, Schelling, and George
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP]  to light the inadequacy of the evacuation plan recommended by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts should Cambridge become a target of nuclear attack. This resulted in hearings on the topic and eventually the publication of a pamphlet titled "Cambridge and nuclear weapons: Is there a place to hide?" The pamphlet was so well received by the citizens of Cambridge that communities across the state and country requested copies and a reprint was ordered. Wylie was also instrumental in the establishment of the Cambridge Peace Commission through a city ordinance. His book is the product of these experiences plus decades of research and advocacy
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP]  the second American president featured in the Buck Danny novels, as John F. Kennedy had previously appeared in the 1962 novel Les Voleurs de Satellites ("Satellite Thieves"). Finally, the Cancun trade summit targeted by the terrorists was an actual event, the North–South Summit on International Cooperation and Development, taking place from October 21 to October 24, 1981. The three "Nuclear Alert" novels were the first in "Buck Danny" not to have been drawn by Victor Hubinon because of the artist's death in 1979. Instead, Charlier chose younger artist, who was himself a longtime fan of "Buck Danny" as well as a former military pilot, to work with him. Bergèse has provided the drawing for every novel since, and was also left in charge of the story after Charlier's death.
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP]  Nukespeak: Nuclear Language, Visions and Mindset is a 1982 book by Stephen Hilgartner, Richard C. Bell and Rory O'Connor. This book is a concise history of nuclear weapons and nuclear power in the United States, with special emphasis on the language of the "nuclear mindset". The National Council of Teachers of English gave the book's authors an Orwell Award in 1982.
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP] Red Alert (novel)  Red Alert is a 1958 novel by Peter George about nuclear war. The book was the underlying inspiration for Stanley Kubrick's 1964 film "Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb". Kubrick's film differs significantly from the novel in that the film is a black comedy.  Originally published in the UK as Two Hours to Doom, with George using the pseudonym "Peter Bryant" (Bryan Peters for the French translation, "120 minutes pour sauver le monde"), the novel deals with the apocalyptic threat of nuclear war and the almost absurd ease with which it can be triggered. A genre of such topical fiction, of which "Red Alert" was among the earliest examples that sprung up in the late 1950s, led by Nevil Shute's "On the Beach".  Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler's later best-seller, "Fail-Safe", so closely resembled "Red Alert" in its premise that George sued on the charge of copyright infringement, resulting in an out-of-court settlement. Both novels would go on to inspire very different films that would both be released in 1964 by the same studio (Columbia Pictures).
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP] Dr. Strangelove  Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb, known simply and more commonly as Dr. Strangelove, is a 1964 black comedy film that satirizes the Cold War fears of a nuclear conflict between the Soviet Union and the United States. The film was directed, produced, and co-written by Stanley Kubrick and stars Peter Sellers, George C. Scott, Sterling Hayden, and Slim Pickens. The film is loosely based on Peter George's thriller novel "Red Alert" (1958).  The story concerns an unhinged United States Air Force general who orders a first strike nuclear attack on the Soviet Union. It separately follows the President of the United States, his advisors, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and a Royal Air Force (RAF) exchange officer as they attempt to prevent the crew of a B-52 plane (who were following orders from the general) from bombing the Soviets and starting a nuclear war.  The film is often considered one of the best comedies ever made, as well as one of the greatest films of all time. In 1998, the American Film Institute ranked it twenty-sixth in its list of the best American movies (in the 2007 edition, the film ranked thirty-ninth), and in 2000, it was listed as number three on its list of the funniest American films. In 1989, the United States Library of Congress included "Dr. Strangelove" as one of the first 25 films selected for preservation in the National Film Registry for being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP] Fail-Safe (novel)  Fail-Safe is a bestselling American novel by Eugene Burdick and Harvey Wheeler. The story was initially serialized in three installments in the "Saturday Evening Post", on October 13, 20, and 27, 1962, during the Cuban Missile Crisis.  The novel was released on October 22, 1962, and was then adapted into a 1964 film of the same name directed by Sidney Lumet and starring Henry Fonda, Dan O'Herlihy, and Walter Matthau. In 2000, the novel was adapted again for a televised play, broadcast live in black and white on CBS. All three works have the same theme, accidental nuclear war, with the same plot.  "Fail-Safe" was purported to be so similar to an earlier novel, "Red Alert", that "Red Alert"s author, Peter George and film producer Stanley Kubrick, sued on a charge of copyright infringement, settling out of court.
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP] Peter George (author)  Peter Bryan George (26 March 1924 – 1 June 1966) was a Welsh author, most famous for the 1958 Cold War thriller novel "Red Alert", published initially with the title "Two Hours to Doom" and written using the pseudonym Peter Bryant. The book was the inspiration for Stanley Kubrick's classic movie "".
Who is the author of Nuclear Alert? [SEP] WarGames  WarGames is a 1983 American science fiction techno-thriller film written by Lawrence Lasker and Walter F. Parkes and directed by John Badham. The film, which stars Matthew Broderick, Dabney Coleman, John Wood, and Ally Sheedy, follows David Lightman (Broderick), a young hacker who unwittingly accesses a United States military supercomputer programmed to simulate, predict and execute nuclear war against the Soviet Union.  "WarGames" was a critical and box-office success, costing $12 million and grossing $125 million worldwide. The film was nominated for three Academy Awards.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]  Malvaloca is a 1912 play written by the Spanish brothers Joaquín Álvarez Quintero and Serafín Álvarez Quintero. It has been adapted into films three times. A fallen woman from Málaga is eventually redeemed. The title refers to the name of the leading character.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]  Malvaloca is a 1942 Spanish drama film directed by Luis Marquina and starring Amparo Rivelles, Alfredo Mayo and Manuel Luna. It is an adaptation of the 1912 play of the same title about a fallen woman from Málaga who eventually redeems herself. Following the film's success Rivelles was signed up on a lucrative three-year contract by CIFESA, the biggest studio in Spain.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]  Malvaloca is a 1926 Spanish silent drama film directed by Benito Perojo and starring Lidia Gutiérrez, Manuel San Germán and Javier de Rivera. It is an adaptation of the 1912 play of the same title.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]  Malvaloca is a 1954 Spanish drama film directed by Ramón Torrado and starring Paquita Rico, Peter Damon and Antonio Riquelme. It is an adaptation of the 1912 play of the same title about a fallen woman from Málaga who eventually redeems herself.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]  town of Montesodi Marittimo, and with its main personages an odd couple of investigators – a university geneticist and a female archivist. In July 2013 he was awarded the Italian literary prize "Premio letterario La Tore Isola d'Elba". Malvaldi authored also books of popular science. His book ''Le due teste del tiranno. Metodi matematici per la libertà (namely, The Two Heads of the Tyrant. Mathematical Methods for the Freedom) (2017) won the third edition (2018) of Premio ASIMOV (Asimov award) for the best book in scientific dissemination published in Italy, in ex aequo with Helen Czerski's Storm in a Teacup.''
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP] Quintero brothers  Serafín Álvarez Quintero (March 26, 1871 – April 12, 1938) and Joaquín Álvarez Quintero (January 20, 1873 – June 14, 1944) were Spanish dramatists.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP] Lillian Albertson  Lillian Albertson (August 6, 1881 – August 24, 1962) was an American stage and screen actress, and a noted theatrical producer.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP] Carmen Ruiz Moragas  Carmen Ruiz Moragas (1898 – May 20, 1936) was a Spanish actress. For years, she was the mistress of King Alfonso XIII, with whom she had two children.
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP]
Who is the author of Malvaloca? [SEP] List of plays adapted into feature films  This is a list of plays that have been adapted into feature films followed by a list of feature films based on stage plays or musicals.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP]  Handle Magazine was first published in September 2005. The magazine was part of FKP Universal Exports. It was published bi-monthly. Even though it was an Australian publication it still had a few NBA articles and interviews. Brad Graham served as the editor-in-chief and art direct of the bi-monthly. Dov Kornits was the publisher of the magazine of which the last issue appeared in March 2009.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP]  Handle with Care (2009) is the seventeenth novel by American author Jodi Picoult. Handle with Care debuted at #1 on The New York Times Best Seller list.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP]  People Magazine gave the book four stars. The Washington Post called it "a great read, with strong characters, an exciting lawsuit to pull you along and really good use of the medical context." However The Boston Globe called the novel "fairly engaging if sometimes [an] arduous read."
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP]  Handle with Care employs an alternating narrative style, in which various characters take turns narrating chapters and providing their perspective on the events that are unfolding throughout. The novel is narrated by Charlotte, Sean, Marin, Piper, Amelia, and the final chapter by Willow. Picoult has used this technique in multiple novels, including, Songs of the Humpback Whale, My Sister's Keeper, Change of Heart, and House Rules.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP]  of members of the audience in a single penstroke. He continued his chalk talks throughout his life and travelled with them to the US, Australia, New Zealand, and Britain. He published an autobiography titled Chalk Talks in 1922, the year before his death.  Early Canadian feminist writer Sarah Anne Curzon made regular contributions to Grip. At Bengough's request in 1882, she wrote the closet drama The Sweet Girl Graduate for the book The Grip Sack. The drama tells of a woman who disguises herself as a man to attend university at a time when women were barred in Canada from post-secondary education. In 1883, Frank Wilson took
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP] Pseudonym  A pseudonym (; ) or alias () is a fictitious name that a person or group assumes for a particular purpose, which differs from their original or true name (orthonym). This also differs from a new name that entirely or legally replaces an individual's own. Many pseudonym holders use pseudonyms because they wish to remain anonymous, but anonymity is difficult to achieve and often fraught with legal issues.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP] Will Clarke (novelist)  Will Clarke (born August 13, 1970) is an American novelist who is the author of "Lord Vishnu's Love Handles: A Spy Novel (sort of)", "The Worthy: A Ghost's Story","The Neon Palm of Madame Melançon" and "Marigold: The Secret to Manifestation." A native of Shreveport, Louisiana, Clarke originally self-published his first two books via the Internet and independent books stores like Book Soup in Los Angeles, BookPeople in Austin, and Elliott Bay Book Company in Seattle. Clarke's books eventually became underground hits in the early part of the 2000s. He later republished the books in hardback with Simon & Schuster and sold the movie rights to Hollywood. Both "Lord Vishnu's Love Handles: A Spy Novel (sort of) and" "The Worthy: A Ghost's Story" were selected as "The New York Times" Editors' Choice while Clarke was named the "Hot Pop Prophet" by "Rolling Stone" magazine in 2006. "The Neon Palm of Madame Melançon" was listed as one of "Kirkus Review's" Best Books of 2017.  Will Clarke holds an MFA in creative writing from University of British Columbia and is known for using the supernatural (a psychic dot-com millionaire and the ghost of a dead frat boy) to trick the cynical eye into seeing the madness of the mundane.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP] Handle with Care (song)  "Handle with Care" is a song by the British-American supergroup the Traveling Wilburys. It was released in October 1988 as their debut single and as the opening track of their album "Traveling Wilburys Vol. 1". The song was the first recording made by the group, although it was originally intended as a bonus track on a European single by George Harrison. When he and Jeff Lynne presented the song to Harrison's record company, the executives insisted it was too good for that purpose, a decision that resulted in the formation of the Wilburys. The song was written primarily by Harrison, although, as with all the tracks on "Vol. 1", the writing credit lists all five members of the band: Harrison, Lynne, Bob Dylan, Roy Orbison and Tom Petty.  "Handle with Care" was the Wilburys' most successful single. It peaked at number 45 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 in the United States, number 2 on the "Billboard" Album Rock Tracks chart and number 21 on the UK Singles Chart, and was a top-five hit in Australia and New Zealand. Directed by David Leland, the video for the song was an MTV favourite in the late 1980s.  Petty and his band the Heartbreakers often performed "Handle with Care" in concert. Lynne sang it with them at the Concert for George, a year after Harrison's death in November 2001. Harrison's son Dhani Harrison sang lead on the song with Jeff Lynne's ELO during their 2019 US tour.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP] Handle with Care (novel)  Handle with Care (2009) is the seventeenth novel by American author Jodi Picoult. "Handle with Care" debuted at #1 on "The New York Times" Best Seller list.
Who is the author of Handles? [SEP] Handles (novel)  Handles is a realistic children's novel by Jan Mark, first published in 1983 by Kestrel Books of Harmondsworth, London, with illustrations by David Parkins. Set in the Norfolk countryside, it features a city girl on holiday, who loves motorcycles. Nicholas Tucker calls it "a happy, optimistic work"; Erica escapes "mean-minded relatives" for the "anarchic motorbike-repair outfit in a nearby town".<ref name=tucker/>  Mark and "Handles" won the annual Carnegie Medal from the Library Association, recognising the year's best children's book by a British subject.<ref name=medal1983/> Thus she became the third writer with two such honors (of seven through 2012), having won the 1976 Medal for her debut novel "Thunder and Lightnings".<ref name=medal1976/> Also set in the Norfolk countryside, it features two boys who love aeroplanes.  Atheneum Books published the first U.S. edition in 1985, retaining the Parkins illustrations.<ref name=LCC/>
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  The Shadow Speaker, is a young adult, first-person novel by Nigerian-American writer Nnedi Okorafor, which takes place in the year 2070. The Shadow Speaker was a Booksense Pick for Winter 2007/2008, a Tiptree Honor Book, a finalist for the Essence Magazine Literary Award, the Andre Norton Award and the Golden Duck Award and an NAACP Image Award nominee.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Steven Katz (born October 8, 1959) is an American writer best known for his work on Shadow of the Vampire. He received a B. A. in English and Art History from Brown University in 1982 and an M. A. in English from Columbia University in 1984. He currently lives in New York City.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Her story, Shadow Dreams, was published March 2021 by Titan Books in the anthology Black Panther: Tales of Wakanda.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Shadow Over Nordmaar (1982) under the pen name Dezra Despain ; The Immortals (1996) ; Starcraft: Speed of Darkness (2002) ; Fireborn: Embers of Atlantis (2011) ; Wayne of Gotham (June 2012) ; Swept up by the Sea 2 (2013) ; Lincoln's Wizard (2015) with Dan Willis
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP]  Prolific, explaining that he had more ideas than he knew what to do with, in addition to his Collins name, he created additional series under the pseudonyms Mark Sadler, John Crowe, and Carl Dekker. For a few years, he published under three of these pseudonyms at the same time at three different publishing houses — Dodd Mead, Random House, and Bobbs-Merrill. For many years, The New York Times listed his books annually as among the nation’s top mysteries. One year, two appeared on the same list, each written under a different pseudonym. He also penned 8 Belmont Books mass-market paperbacks of The Shadow from 1964 to 1967 under the Shadow's author by-line Maxwell Grant.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Leigh Bardugo  Leigh Bardugo () is an Israeli-American fantasy author. She is best known for her young adult Grishaverse novels, which include the "Shadow and Bone" trilogy, the "Six of Crows" duology, and the "King of Scars" duology. She also received acclaim for her paranormal fantasy adult debut, "Ninth House". The "Shadow and Bone" and "Six of Crows" series have been adapted into "Shadow and Bone" by Netflix and "Ninth House" will be adapted by Amazon Studios; Bardugo is an executive producer on both works.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] The Shadow  The Shadow is a fictional character created by magazine publishers Street & Smith and writer Walter B. Gibson. Originally created to be a mysterious radio show narrator, and developed into a distinct literary character in 1931 by writer Walter B. Gibson, The Shadow has been adapted into other forms of media, including American comic books, comic strips, television, serials, video games, and at least five feature films. The radio drama included episodes voiced by Orson Welles.  The Shadow debuted on July 31, 1930, as the mysterious narrator of the radio program "Detective Story Hour", which was developed to boost sales of Street & Smith's monthly pulp "Detective Story Magazine". When listeners of the program began asking at newsstands for copies of "that Shadow detective magazine", Street & Smith launched a magazine based on the character, and hired Gibson to create a concept to fit the name and voice and to write a story featuring him. The first issue of the pulp series "The Shadow Magazine" went on sale April 1, 1931.  On September 26, 1937, "The Shadow", a new radio drama based on the character as created by Gibson for the pulp magazine, premiered with the story "The Death House Rescue", in which The Shadow was characterized as having "the hypnotic power to cloud men's minds so they cannot see him". In the magazine stories, The Shadow did not become literally invisible.  The introductory line from the radio adaptation of The Shadow – "Who knows what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The Shadow knows!" – spoken by actor Frank Readick, has earned a place in the American idiom. These words were accompanied by an ominous laugh and a musical theme, Camille Saint-Saëns' "Le Rouet d'Omphale" ("Omphale's Spinning Wheel," composed in 1872).  The Shadow, at the end of each episode, reminded listeners, "The weed of crime bears bitter fruit! Crime does not pay...The Shadow knows!"  Some early episodes used the alternate statement, "As you sow evil, so shall you reap evil! Crime does not pay...The Shadow knows!"
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] The Shadow of the Wind  The Shadow of the Wind () is a 2001 novel by the Spanish writer Carlos Ruiz Zafón and a worldwide bestseller. The book was translated into English in 2004 by Lucia Graves and sold over a million copies in the UK after already achieving success on mainland Europe, topping the Spanish bestseller lists for weeks. It was published in the United States by Penguin Books and in Great Britain by Weidenfeld & Nicolson and Orion Books. It is believed to have sold 15 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling books of all time.  Ruiz Zafón's follow-up, "The Angel's Game", is a prequel to "The Shadow of the Wind". His third in the series, "The Prisoner of Heaven", is the sequel to "The Shadow of the Wind".
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Shadow and Bone  Shadow and Bone is a young adult fantasy adventure and debut novel written by Israeli-American author Leigh Bardugo. It was published by Macmillan Publishers on June 5, 2012. The novel is narrated by Alina Starkov, a teenage orphan who grows up in the Russia-inspired land of Ravka when, unexpectedly harnessing a power she never knew she had in order to save her childhood best friend, she becomes a target of intrigue and violence. It is the first book in the "Shadow and Bone" trilogy, followed by "Siege and Storm" and "Ruin and Rising." It is also the basis for the Netflix adaptation, "Shadow and Bone," which premiered in April 2021.
Who is the author of Shadow? [SEP] Livestock's Long Shadow  Livestock's Long Shadow: Environmental Issues and Options is a United Nations report, released by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations on 29 November 2006, that "aims to assess the full impact of the livestock sector on environmental problems, along with potential technical and policy approaches to mitigation".<ref name="FAO-Report"/> It stated that livestock accounts for 18% of anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions, a figure which FAO changed to 14.5% in its 2013 study "Tackling climate change through livestock".
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP]  setting in many Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child novels, including Relic (1995), Reliquary (1997), The Cabinet of Curiosities (2002), and The Book of the Dead (2007). FBI Special Agent Aloysius X. L. Pendergast plays a major role in all of these thrillers. Preston was manager of publications at the museum before embarking upon his fiction writing career. ; The museum has appeared repeatedly in the fiction of dark fantasy author Caitlín R. Kiernan, including appearances in her fifth novel Daughter of Hounds, her work on the DC/Vertigo comic book The Dreaming (#47, "Trinket"), and many of her short stories, including "Valentia" and "Onion" (both collected in To Charles Fort, With Love, 2005).
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP]  The Forgotten Garden is a 2008 novel written by Australian author Kate Morton, driven by the mystery of why a 4-year-old child is found abandoned on an Australian wharf in 1913. While paying homage to Frances Hodgson Burnett, The Secret Garden and the Gothic novel, Morton's second work explores living with and overcoming loss - of trust, of identity, or of loved ones - and was inspired by Morton's own family history.
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP]  Marjorie Schwarzer (born 1957) is an American museum educator and author of the acclaimed museum textbook Riches, Rivals and Radicals: A History of Museums in the United States (Rowman and Littlefield; third edition, 2020). She is a prolific writer on issues impacting museums, especially those in the United States but also in the United Arab Emirates and other developing nations. She has authored numerous reviews, articles and books about museums. From 1996 to 2011, she was professor and chair of Museum Studies at John F. Kennedy University, California and she taught at University of San Francisco from 2012 to 2020. The first edition of Riches, Rivals and Radicals: 100 Years of the Museum in America was published in 2006 to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the American Alliance of Museums. The book was the basis for an award-winning Public Television show of the same title.
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP]  The Keeper of Secrets is a 1971 comic novel by the American writer Lester Goran. It tells the story of a novelist, Shimen Groff, who after years of neglect is suddenly under consideration for the Nobel Prize for Literature. The novel is an account of his journey across the United States to collate various sections of his long-promised novel manuscript, ""Paradise, PA"". At the time of publication, The Chicago Sun-Times declared that "imbued by Goran with a sharp wit and a fine sense of comic irony, Shimen is one of the best intellectual protagonists to come along in some time." 'Don't I Know You?', an extract from an as-yet-unpublished sequel called Unnatural Expectations, appeared in the first issue of the Australian literary journal Contrappasso in August 2012 alongside a career-ranging interview by Matthew Asprey.
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP] The Lost Museum by Hector Feliciano. Published by Basic Books (Harper Collins Publishers), 1997, ISBN: 0-465-04194-9.
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP] The Museum of Abandoned Secrets  The Museum of Abandoned Secrets (Ukrainian: Музей покинутих секретів) is a 2009 novel written by Oksana Zabuzhko. The novel, more than 800 pages long, spans six decades of contemporary Ukrainian history.  Critics have compared the book to Thomas Mann's "Buddenbrooks" and works of Fyodor Dostoyevsky. The novel, Zabuzhko's third, is a modern multigenerational saga which covers the years 1940 to 2004, framed as investigations by a journalist, Daryna Hoshchynska, of historical events in western Ukraine including the Holodomor, the Ukrainian Insurgent Army, and later political changes, ending just before the Orange Revolution.  The book won the 2010 award for best Ukrainian book, presented by "Korrespondent" magazine, and the 2013 Angelus Central European Literature Award, presented by the City of Wroclaw. Angelus jury president, Natalya Gorbanevskaya, described the book as a "book that weaves into one history and modernity, the book that features magic, love, betrayal, and death."<ref name="WNU"/>
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP] Oksana Zabuzhko  Oksana Stefanivna Zabuzhko () is a Ukrainian novelist, poet, and essayist. Her works have been translated into several languages. She has been accused of relativising the Volhynian Massacre
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP] British Museum tube station  British Museum was a station on the London Underground, located in Holborn, central London. It was latterly served by the Central line and took its name from the nearby British Museum in Great Russell Street.  The station was opened by the Central London Railway in 1900. In 1933, with the expansion of Holborn station, less than 100 yards away, British Museum station was permanently closed. It was subsequently utilised as a military office and command post, but in 1989 the surface building was demolished. A portion of the eastbound tunnel is used to store materials for track maintenance, visible from passing trains.
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP] William Albracht  William "Bill" Albracht was an Army captain in the Vietnam War. He is a recipient of three Silver Stars, and is the author of "".
Who is the author of The Museum of Abandoned Secrets? [SEP]
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP]  Responsibility is a novel by New Zealand author Nigel Cox, published by Victoria University Press in 2005. The novel is set in contemporary Berlin, and tells the story of an expatriate New Zealander who, whilst working as a consultant for German museums, becomes embroiled in criminal activity out of boredom. The novel is notable for combining noir and detective fiction clichés with comedy, as well as having a serious emotional centre. Much of the book's source material is drawn from Nigel Cox's own experiences living in Berlin, and working at the Jewish Museum there, between 2000 and 2005.
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP]  "The Responsibility of Intellectuals" is an essay by the American academic Noam Chomsky which was published as a special supplement by The New York Review of Books on 23 February 1967.
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] Moral Responsibility (editor) (Cornell University Press, 1986) ; God, Foreknowledge and Freedom (editor) (Stanford University Press, 1989) ; Perspectives on Moral Responsibility (co-editor with Ravizza) (Cornell University Press, 1993) ; The Metaphysics of Death (editor) (Stanford University Press, 1993) ; The Metaphysics of Free Will: An Essay on Control (Blackwell, 1994) ; Responsibility and Control: A Theory of Moral Responsibility (co-authored with Ravizza) (Cambridge University Press, 1998) ; My Way: Essays on Moral Responsibility (Oxford University Press, 2006) ; Our Stories: Essays on Life, Death, and Free Will (Oxford University Press, 2009) ; Near-Death Experiences: Understanding Visions of the Afterlife (co-authored with Benjamin Mitchell-Yellin) (Oxford University Press, 2016)
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP]  The Responsibilities of the Novelist is a 1903 non-fiction book by Frank Norris. It was published posthumously, and it includes essays that Norris published in literary reviews about the art of novel-writing. A 1903 review in The Los Angeles Times described the book as "original, sincere, admirable as a whole" but "defective in its own literary art" and lacking "authority."
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP]  Love and Responsibility is a book written by Karol Wojtyła before he became Pope John Paul II and was originally published in Polish in 1960 and in English in 1981. A new, completely updated and original translation was published in 2013. Fr. Wojtyła was originally inspired to write the book while being a professor at the Catholic University of Lublin, through the experiences he had in teaching young Catholics.
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] With great power comes great responsibility  "With great power comes great responsibility" is an adage popularized by Spider-Man in Marvel comics, films, and related media. Introduced by Stan Lee, it originally appeared as a closing narration in the 1962 "Amazing Fantasy" #15, and was later attributed to Uncle Ben as advice to the young Peter Parker. The ideasimilar to the 1st century BC parable of the Sword of Damocles and the medieval principle of "noblesse oblige"is that power cannot simply be enjoyed for its privileges alone but necessarily makes its holders morally responsible both for what they choose to do with it and for what they fail to do with it. After it was popularized by the Spider-Man franchise, similar formulations have been noticed in the work of earlier writers and orators. The formulationusually in its Marvel Comics formhas been used by journalists, authors, and other writers, including the Supreme Court of the United States.
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] Academic authorship  Academic authorship of journal articles, books, and other original works is a means by which academics communicate the results of their scholarly work, establish priority for their discoveries, and build their reputation among their peers.  Authorship is a primary basis that employers use to evaluate academic personnel for employment, promotion, and tenure. In academic publishing, authorship of a work is claimed by those making intellectual contributions to the completion of the research described in the work. In simple cases, a solitary scholar carries out a research project and writes the subsequent article or book. In many disciplines, however, collaboration is the norm and issues of authorship can be controversial. In these contexts, authorship can encompass activities other than writing the article; a researcher who comes up with an experimental design and analyzes the data may be considered an author, even if she or he had little role in composing the text describing the results. According to some standards, even writing the entire article would not constitute authorship unless the writer was also involved in at least one other phase of the project.
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] Criminal responsibility in French law  Criminal responsibility in French criminal law is the obligation to answer for infractions committed and to suffer the punishment provided by the legislation that governs the infraction in question.  In a democracy citizens have rights but also duties: with freedom comes responsibility.  Unlike civil liability, the obligation to answer for damage one has caused, either by repairing it or paying damages and interest for it, criminal responsibility implies legal recourse for the state against a disturbance of the peace. This includes three major factors:
Who is the author of Responsibility? [SEP] Commission of Responsibilities  The Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War and on Enforcement of Penalties was a commission established at the Paris Peace Conference in 1919. Its role was to examine the background of the First World War, and to investigate and recommend individuals for prosecution for committing war crimes.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]  Villa Amalia is a 2009 French drama film adapted from the novel Villa Amalia by Pascal Quignard. It is directed by Benoît Jacquot and stars Isabelle Huppert.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]  Villa Incognito is a novel by Tom Robbins published in 2003. This brief work shares the style, humor, and underlying cultural commentary of Robbins' better-known novels. It is recognized as a response to 9/11 and as a commentary on the Vietnam War.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]  Amalia Natividad de las Mercedes Puga y Puga, best known as Amalia Puga de Losada (Cajamarca, September 8, 1866 - Lima, September 20, 1963), was a Peruvian writer, poet, novelist, essayist and storyteller. She was included as a member of the "Círculo Literario" in 1887 and of the "Ateneo de Lima" in 1891. She married the Colombian writer Elías de Losada Plissé in 1893, and they settled in New York City. Shortly after, she became a widow (1896). She retired back to her hometown where she dedicated herself to her son's education. Among her work is "La Felicidad" (1887); "La literatura en la mujer" (1891); "Ensayos literarios" (1893); "El voto" (1923), short novel; "Poesías" (1928); "La madre Espinach, vidente y profetisa" (1933 y 1950); "Tragedia inédita" (1948); and "El jabón de hiel" (1949), which were stories inspired by traditions and legends of her hometown. In 1952 she wrote'Los Barzúas" which was a novel.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]  had a simple way of writing, offering humble recipes that were inexpensive, but still had a high nutritional value. In "La massaia scrupolosa" she also gave out household economics advices. Amalia was interpreting two different characters: an emancipated and educated woman and on the other side a housewife, dedicated to her husband and to taking care of the house. Several collections of these recipes were later published separately, including "Ricette" and "Altre ricette" which became best-sellers. Dottor Amal and Petronilla accompanied readers for 20 years through the dark times of World War II, when food rationing, bombing, malnutrition and hunger were terrible issues. Her column "La parola del medico"
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]  Villa Amalia is the name of the building that hosted the former Second High School of Athens in Greece. It is located on the corner of Acharnon and Heiden streets, near Victoria metro station. It was an anarchist squat before its eviction in 2012. It reopened as a school in 2016.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP] Villa Amalia (novel)  Villa Amalia is a novel by the French author Pascal Quignard. It was first published in 2006 by Gallimard, and has appeared in their "folio" series as no. 4588. , it has been translated into Russian.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP] Amalia Mendoza  Amalia Mendoza García (10 July 1923 – 11 June 2001), nicknamed "La Tariácuri", was a Mexican singer and actress. "Échame a mi la culpa" and "Amarga navidad" were some of her greatest hits. her best friend since youth was Martha De Miranda Jimenez "Martuquia" as she called her, she was her companion for many years when Amalia was on tour.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP] Ernest Cassel  Sir Ernest Joseph Cassel, (3 March 1852 – 21 September 1921) was a British merchant banker and capitalist. Born and raised in Prussia, he moved to England at the age of 17.
Who is the author of Villa Amalia? [SEP]
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP]  Barry Sears, Ph.D. (born June 6, 1947) is an American biochemist and author best known for creating and promoting the Zone diet, a fad diet which is not well supported by medical evidence.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP]  In 2007, Wright joined the editorial staff of Zone 3 journal and Zone 3 Press as Nonfiction Editor.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP]  Your Erroneous Zones is the first self-help book written by Wayne Dyer and first issued by Funk & Wagnalls publishers in April 1976. It is one of the top-selling books of all time, with an estimated 35 million copies sold. The book spent 64 weeks on The New York Times bestseller list through November 13, 1977, including a spot at number one on the week of May 8, 1977.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP]  Preston was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts. He graduated Wellesley High School in Massachusetts in 1972 and attended Pomona College in Claremont, California. He earned a Ph.D. in English from Princeton University in 1983. His 1992 New Yorker article "Crisis in the Hot Zone" was expanded into his breakout book, The Hot Zone (1994). It is classified as a "non-fiction thriller" about ebolaviruses. He came to know about ebola through such contacts as U.S. Army researchers Drs. C.J. Peters and Nancy Jaax. His fascination began during a visit to Africa where he was an eyewitness to epidemics. The book served as the (very loose) basis
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP]  In June 2017, Owen published 'Into The Gray Zone: A Neuroscientist Explores the Border Between Life and Death' a popular science book that told the story of his 20-year quest to show that some patients thought to be in a vegetative state were in fact entirely aware, but incapable of indicating their awareness to the outside world. The book became a best-seller on both sides of the Atlantic and received strong positive reviews from publications including Nature, The Guardian, and The New York Times. The book made Sunday Times 'Book of The Year', and The Times 'Book of The Week', it was listed on The New Yorker list 'What We're Reading This Summer' and received 4.9 out of 5 stars on Amazon. The book was translated into multiple languages, including Italian, French, Russian, German, Taiwanese, Japanese, Czech and Polish.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP] The Twilight Zone  The Twilight Zone is an American media franchise based on the anthology television series created by Rod Serling. The episodes are in various genres, including fantasy, science fiction, absurdism, dystopian fiction, suspense, horror, supernatural drama, black comedy, and psychological thriller, often concluding with a macabre or unexpected twist, and usually with a moral. A popular and critical success, it introduced many Americans to common science fiction and fantasy tropes. The first series, shot entirely in black and white, ran on CBS for five seasons from 1959 to 1964.  "The Twilight Zone" followed in the tradition of earlier television shows such as "Tales of Tomorrow" (1951–53) and "Science Fiction Theatre" (1955–57); radio programs such as "The Weird Circle" (1943–45), "Dimension X" (1950–51) and "X Minus One" (1955–58); and the radio work of one of Serling's inspirations, Norman Corwin. The success of the series led to (1983), (1994), a radio series (2002–12), various literature, theme park attractions and various other spin-offs that spanned five decades, including three revival television series. The second series (1985–89) ran on CBS and in syndication in the 1980s, while the third series ran on UPN (2002–03). The fourth "Twilight Zone" series, helmed by Jordan Peele, was released on CBS All Access from 2019–20.  "TV Guide" ranked the original TV series #5 in their 2013 list of the 60 greatest shows of all time and #4 in their list of the 60 greatest dramas.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP] The Hot Zone  The Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story is a best-selling 1994 nonfiction thriller by Richard Preston about the origins and incidents involving viral hemorrhagic fevers, particularly ebolaviruses and marburgviruses. The basis of the book was Preston's 1992 "New Yorker" article "Crisis in the Hot Zone".  The filoviruses—including Ebola virus, Sudan virus, Marburg virus, and Ravn virus—are Biosafety Level 4 agents, extremely dangerous to humans because they are very infectious, have a high fatality rate, and most have no known prophylactic measures, treatments, or cures. Along with describing the history of the devastation caused by two of these Central African diseases, Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus disease, Preston described a 1989 incident in which a relative of Ebola virus, Reston virus, was discovered at a primate quarantine facility in Reston, Virginia, less than 15 miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP] Dan Buettner  Dan Buettner (born June 18, 1960) is an American National Geographic Fellow and "New York Times"-bestselling author. He is an explorer, educator, author, producer, storyteller and public speaker. He co-produced an Emmy Award-winning documentary and holds three Guinness records for endurance cycling. Buettner is the founder of Blue Zones, LLC.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP] The Twilight Zone (1959 TV series)  The Twilight Zone (marketed as Twilight Zone for its final two seasons) is an American science fiction horror anthology television series created and presented by Rod Serling, which ran for five seasons on CBS from October 2, 1959, to June 19, 1964. Each episode presents a stand-alone story in which characters find themselves dealing with often disturbing or unusual events, an experience described as entering "the Twilight Zone," often with a surprise ending and a moral. Although predominantly science-fiction, the show's paranormal and Kafkaesque events leaned the show towards fantasy and horror. The phrase "twilight zone," inspired by the series, is used to describe surreal experiences.  The series featured both established stars and younger actors who would become much better known later. Serling served as executive producer and head writer; he wrote or co-wrote 92 of the show's 156 episodes. He was also the show's host and narrator, delivering monologues at the beginning and end of each episode. Serling's opening and closing narrations usually summarize the episode's events encapsulating how and why the main character(s) had entered the Twilight Zone.  In 1997, the episodes "To Serve Man" (directed by Richard L. Bare) and "It's a Good Life" (directed by James Sheldon) were respectively ranked at 11 and 31 on "TV Guide's 100 Greatest Episodes of All Time". Serling himself stated that his favorite episodes of the series were "The Invaders" (directed by Douglas Heyes) and "Time Enough at Last" (directed by John Brahm).  "The Twilight Zone" is widely regarded as one of the greatest television series of all time. In 2002, the series was ranked 26 on "TV Guide"s 50 Greatest TV Shows of All Time. In 2004, it was ranked No. 8 on TV Guide's Top Cult Shows Ever, moving to No. 9 three years later. In 2013, the Writers Guild of America ranked it as the third best-written TV series ever and "TV Guide" ranked it as the fourth greatest drama, the second greatest sci-fi show and the fifth greatest show of all time. In 2016, the series was ranked No. 7 on "Rolling Stone"s list of the 100 greatest shows of all time and was ranked No. 12 in 2022.
Who is the author of Zones? [SEP] The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five  The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five is a 1980 science fiction novel by Doris Lessing. It is the second book in her five-book "Canopus in Argos" series, the first being "Shikasta" (1979). It was first published in the United States in March 1980 by Alfred A. Knopf, and in the United Kingdom in May 1980 by Jonathan Cape.  The novel takes place in three of six metaphysical Zones that encircle the planet Shikasta (an allegorical Earth), and concerns two ordained marriages that link the patriarchal Zone Four with the matriarchal Zone Three, and the tribal Zone Five. The story is told from the point of view of the matriarchal utopian Zone Three, and is about gender conflict and the breaking down of barriers between the sexes. Lessing called the "Canopus in Argos" series "space fiction", but "The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five" is generally referred to as feminist science fiction.  The novel is influenced by spiritual and mystical themes in Sufism, an Islamic belief system in which Lessing had taken an interest in the mid-1960s. The zones are said to correspond to Sufism's different levels of consciousness, and symbolise the "Sufi ladder to enlightenment". Lessing was criticised for abandoning her traditional fiction and switching to science fiction in her "Canopus in Argos" series. Notwithstanding this criticism, "The Marriages" was generally well received by critics, with some reviewers calling it one of Lessing's best works on the topic of gender conflict.  "The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five" was adapted as an opera by composer Philip Glass with story-libretto by Lessing, and premiered in German in Heidelberg, Germany in May 1997. The United States premiere in English was performed in Chicago in June 2001. These productions were not very well received by theatre critics.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]  Complete Warrior was written by Andy Collins, David Noonan, and Ed Stark, and was published in November 2003. Cover art is by Wayne Reynolds, with interior art by Brent Chumley, Ed Cox, Wayne England, Rebecca Guay-Mitchell, Jeremy Jarvis, Doug Kovacs, Ginger Kubic, John and Laura Lakey, David Martin, Dennis Crabapple McClain, Matt Mitchell, Steve Prescott, Wayne Reynolds, David Roach, Mark Smylie, Brian Snoddy, Ron Spencer, and Joel Thomas. As this book is not intended only for fighters, David Noonan clarified that Complete Warrior would be useful for: "In short, anybody who makes attack rolls. That's often the fighter, of course, but there's something in Complete Warrior for the polymorphed wizard, the wild-shaped druid, and any number of archetypes who don't trundle around in heavy armor heaving a big battleaxe."
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]  Doppelganger, also published under the title Warrior, is a high fantasy novel written by Marie Brennan that chronicle the adventures of Miryo, a witch, and Mirage, her doppelgänger.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]  Warrior of the Altaii is Jordan's first novel, which remained unpublished for more than 40 years; it is 98,000 words in length, and he finished it in 13 days. Donald A. Wolheim at DAW Books made an offer for it, but revoked the offer when Jordan requested a small change in his contract. When Harriet McDougal was Editorial Director for Ace Books, Tom Doherty hired Jim Baen to work under her. When Doherty left Ace Books to start Tor Books in 1980, Baen followed, working at Tor for a few years before starting his own imprint, Baen Books. Baen did not have a very high opinion of fantasy, and so he bought Warriors for Ace Books as a science fiction novel. When he left Ace for Tor, Susan Allison took his place and reverted the rights for the novel to Jordan. When McDougal returned to Charleston to start her own imprint, Popham Press, she met Jordan and published his first novel, The Fallon Blood. Twelve years after his death, Warrior of the Altaii published on October 8, 2019.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]  write the third book, Forest of Secrets. Later, after she wrote the first Warriors field guide, Tui Sutherland became the fourth author to use the pseudonym Erin Hunter. The authors have named several other authors as sources of inspiration when writing the novels. In an online author chat, Cherith Baldry listed the authors that inspire her as including Tolkien, Ursula K. Le Guin, and Shakespeare. In the same chat, Victoria Holmes stated that Jacqueline Wilson, Kathy Reichs, and J. K. Rowling are some of the authors that inspire her. According to the official website, other authors who have inspired the writers include Enid Blyton, Lucy Daniels, Ellis Peters, Tess Gerritsen, Kate Ellis, Lisa Gardiner, and Meg
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]  The Warrior Who Carried Life is a novel by Geoff Ryman published in 1985.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP]
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP] Erin Hunter  Erin Hunter is a collective pseudonym used by the authors Victoria Holmes, Kate Cary, Cherith Baldry, Clarissa Hutton, Inbali Iserles, Tui T. Sutherland, and Rosie Best in the writing of several juvenile fantasy novel series, which focus on animals and their adventures. Notable works include the "Warriors", "Seekers", "Survivors", "Bravelands", and "Bamboo Kingdom" book series. Each of the authors play a different role in the production of the books: Holmes creates the plot for each book, and the others take turns writing the books. Dan Jolley, though not an official Erin Hunter author, also writes the stories for manga published under the Hunter name.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP] The Woman Warrior  The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts is a book written by Chinese American author Maxine Hong Kingston and published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1976. The book blends autobiography with old Chinese folktales.  "The Woman Warrior" won the National Book Critics Circle Award and was named one of "TIME" magazine's top nonfiction books of the 1970s.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP] The Warriors (Yurick novel)  The Warriors is a novel written by Sol Yurick and illustrated by Frank Modell in 1965. In 1979, it was adapted into the film of the same name. Compared to the film, the novel takes a closer look at the concepts of sexuality, reputation, family, and survival.
Who is the author of Warrior? [SEP] Way of the Peaceful Warrior  Way of the Peaceful Warrior is a part-fictional, part-autobiographical book based upon the early life of the author Dan Millman. The book has been a bestseller in many countries since its first publication in 1980. The book initially had only modest sales, before Hal Kramer came out of retirement to republish the book, from the H. J. Kramer imprint of New World Library. In early 2006, a film based on the novel, "Peaceful Warrior", was released.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP]  Beyond was written by Donald P. Rapp and was published in 1981 by Paranoia Press as a digest-sized 32-page book with a map.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP]  Beyond is a 1981 tabletop role-playing game supplement for Traveller, written by Donald P. Rapp, and published by Paranoia Press.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP]  Beyond the Sun is a novel by Matt Jones featuring the fictional archaeologist Bernice Summerfield, his second for the Virgin New Adventures. The New Adventures were a spin-off from the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. The book is, in part, a coming-of-age story for the character of Emile as he comes to terms with his sexuality. Emile would later re-appear in subsequent New Adventures.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP]  Of Worlds Beyond is a collection of essays about the techniques of writing science fiction, edited by Lloyd Arthur Eshbach. It was first published in 1947 by Fantasy Press in an edition of 1,262 copies. It has been reprinted by Advent in 1964 and by Dobson in 1965.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP]  The book collects eleven short works by the author.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP] Beyond Good and Evil  Beyond Good and Evil: Prelude to a Philosophy of the Future () is a book by philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche that covers ideas in his previous work "Thus Spoke Zarathustra" but with a more polemical approach. It was first published in 1886 under the publishing house C. G. Naumann of Leipzig at the author's own expense and first translated into English by Helen Zimmern, who was two years younger than Nietzsche and knew the author.  According to translator Walter Kaufman, the title refers to the need for moral philosophy to go beyond simplistic black and white moralizing, as contained in statements such as "X is good" or "X is evil".<ref name=":0" /> At the beginning of the book (§ 2), Nietzsche attacks the very idea of using strictly opposite terms such as "Good versus Evil".<ref name=":0" />  In "Beyond Good and Evil", Nietzsche accuses past philosophers of lacking critical sense and blindly accepting dogmatic premises in their consideration of morality. Specifically, he accuses them of founding grand metaphysical systems upon the faith that the good man is the opposite of the evil man, rather than just a different expression of the same basic impulses that find more direct expression in the evil man. The work moves into the realm "beyond good and evil" in the sense of leaving behind the traditional morality which Nietzsche subjects to a destructive critique in favour of what he regards as an affirmative approach that fearlessly confronts the perspectival nature of knowledge and the perilous condition of the modern individual.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP] The Wood Beyond the World  The Wood Beyond the World is a fantasy novel by William Morris, perhaps the first modern fantasy writer to unite an imaginary world with the element of the supernatural, and thus the precursor of much of present-day fantasy literature. It was first published in hardcover by Morris's Kelmscott Press, in 1894. The book's importance in the history of fantasy literature was recognized by its republication by Ballantine Books as the third volume of the Ballantine Adult Fantasy series in July, 1969. The Ballantine edition includes an introduction by Lin Carter.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP] Beyond a Boundary  Beyond a Boundary (1963) is a memoir on cricket written by the Trinidadian Marxist intellectual C. L. R. James, which he described as "neither cricket reminiscences nor autobiography". It mixes social commentary, particularly on the place of cricket in the West Indies and England, with commentary on the game, arguing that what happened inside the "Boundary Line" in cricket affected life beyond it, as well as the converse. The book is in a sense a response to a quote from Rudyard Kipling's poem "The English Flag": "What should they know of England who only England know?", which James in his Preface revised to: "What do they know of cricket who only cricket know?"
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP] Beyond the Grave (novel)  Beyond the Grave is the fourth book in "The 39 Clues" series first published on June 2, 2009 and written by Jude Watson. Thematically the novel uses Biblical knowledge, prophecy, and spiritual topics to explore the afterlife. Amy and Dan Cahill, the protagonists, travel to Egypt because of a clue they discovered in "The Sword Thief". The symbols in the middle of the book translate "Alistair was there the night they died."  "Beyond the Grave" was awarded one of "Good Morning America" pick for teen summer reading.
Who is the author of Beyond? [SEP] Beyond Belief: Fact or Fiction  Beyond Belief: Fact or Fiction (originally called Strange Truth: Fact or Fiction during production) is an American television anthology series created by Lynn Lehmann, presented by Dick Clark Productions, and produced and aired by the Fox network from 1997 to 2002. Starting in 2021, a fifth season was produced for the German market, where new episodes are released each Halloween. Each episode featured stories, all of which appeared to defy logic, and some of which were allegedly based on actual events. The viewer was offered the challenge of determining which are true and which are false. At the end of the show, it was revealed to the viewer whether the tales were true or works of fiction.  The series was hosted by James Brolin in season one and by Jonathan Frakes in seasons two, three and four. The show was narrated by Don LaFontaine for the first three seasons and by Campbell Lane for the fourth and final season.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP]  The Other Place is a young adult novel written by Monica Hughes, first published in 1999. It was nominated for the 2000 Silver Birch Award.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP]  The Other Place, subtitled "And Other Stories of the Same Sort", is a collection of science fiction and fantasy stories by J. B. Priestley published in hardcover by Harper & Brothers and Heinemann in 1953. The title story, original to the collection, was adapted as an episode of the television series Westinghouse Studio One in 1958, starring Cedric Hardwicke as "a sorcerer with chin whiskers"
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP]  Teacher Librarian called it a "very imaginative tale for fantasy fans."
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP]  The Other Place is a play by American playwright Sharr White. The play premiered Off-Broadway in 2011 and then ran on Broadway.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP]   This World and the Other is a novel by Nobel Prize-winning author José Saramago. It was first published in 1971.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP] The Other Place (novel)  The Other Place is a young adult novel written by Monica Hughes, first published in 1999.  It was nominated for the 2000 Silver Birch Award.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP] The Other Place (play)  The Other Place is a play by American playwright Sharr White. The play premiered Off-Broadway in 2011 and then ran on Broadway.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP] The Other Place (collection)  The Other Place, subtitled "And Other Stories of the Same Sort", is a collection of science fiction and fantasy stories by J. B. Priestley published in hardcover by Harper & Brothers and Heinemann in 1953. The title story, original to the collection, was adapted as an episode of the television series "Westinghouse Studio One" in 1958, starring Cedric Hardwicke as "a sorcerer with chin whiskers"
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP] The Good Place  The Good Place is an American fantasy comedy television series created by Michael Schur. It premiered on NBC on September 19, 2016, and concluded on January 30, 2020, after four seasons and 53 episodes.  Although the plot evolves significantly over the course of the series, the initial premise follows Eleanor Shellstrop (Kristen Bell), a woman welcomed after her death to the Good Place, a highly selective Heaven-like utopia designed and run by afterlife "architect" Michael (Ted Danson) as a reward for her righteous life. She realizes, however, she was sent there by mistake and must hide her morally imperfect past behavior while trying to become a better, more ethical person. William Jackson Harper, Jameela Jamil, and Manny Jacinto co-star as other residents of the Good Place, with D'Arcy Carden as Janet, an artificial being who assists the residents.  "The Good Place" received critical acclaim for its originality, writing, acting, setting, and tone. The first season's twist ending and the show's exploration and creative use of ethics and philosophy were specifically praised. Among other accolades, it received a Peabody Award and four Hugo Awards for Best Dramatic Presentation, Short Form. It was nominated for 14 Primetime Emmy Awards, including Outstanding Comedy Series for its third and fourth seasons.
Who is the author of The Other Place? [SEP] Some Other Place. The Right Place.  Some Other Place. The Right Place. is a novel by Donald Harington which was published in 1973. It is a story about growing up and understanding how the world works. There are many aspects to life and all must be realized before true growth occurs. It was adapted into the film "Return" in 1985.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] Positive Under Pressure jointly authored with Gael Lindenfield, published by Avenue Books (24 April 2006) ; Dilemmas and Solutions in Global Drug Development, published by Brookwood Medical Publications (January 2003) ; Good Clinical Practice for Investigators, ROSTRUM Publications (July 1990)
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP]  "A Positive" was first published in Australia in 1998 in issue #10 of the horror magazine Bloodsongs. The issue was edited by Steve Proposch and David G. Barnett and published by Implosion Publishing and was the last issue of Bloodsongs to be published. In 2005 "A Positive" was republished in Kaaron Warren's collection, The Grinding House which was edited by Warren and published by CSFG Publishing. "A Positive" won the 1998 Aurealis Award for best horror short story beating works by Paul Brandon, Glyn Parry, Aaron Sterns, as well as her other work that was nominated, "The Glass Woman".
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP]  Positive I.D. is a 1987 American crime film written and directed by Andy Anderson. The film stars Stephanie Rascoe Myers, John S. Davies, Steven Fromholz, Lauren Lane, Gail Cronauer and Matthew Sacks. The film was released on October 27, 1987, by Universal Pictures.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP]  "A Positive" is a 1998 horror short story by Kaaron Warren.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP]  In 1996, Ansolabehere received the Goldsmith Book Prize for the book Going Negative, which he co-authored with Shanto Iyengar.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] The Power of Positive Thinking  The Power of Positive Thinking: A Practical Guide to Mastering the Problems of Everyday Living is a 1952 self-help book by American minister Norman Vincent Peale. It provides anecdotal "case histories" of positive thinking using a biblical approach, and practical instructions which were designed to help the reader achieve a permanent and optimistic attitude. These techniques usually involved affirmations and visualizations. Peale claimed that such techniques would give the reader a higher satisfaction and quality of life. The book was negatively reviewed by scholars and health experts, but was popular among the general public and has sold well.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] Good Omens  Good Omens: The Nice and Accurate Prophecies of Agnes Nutter, Witch is a 1990 novel written as a collaboration between the English authors Terry Pratchett and Neil Gaiman.  The book is a comedy about the birth of the son of Satan and the coming of the End Times. There are attempts by the angel Aziraphale and the demon Crowley to sabotage the coming of the end times, having grown accustomed to their comfortable surroundings in England. One subplot features a mixup at the small country hospital on the day of birth and the growth of the Antichrist, Adam, who grows up with the wrong family, in the wrong country village. Another subplot concerns the summoning of the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, each a big personality in their own right. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 68 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] Course of Positive Philosophy  The Course of Positive Philosophy ("Cours de Philosophie Positive") was a series of texts written by the French philosopher of science and founding sociologist, Auguste Comte, between 1830 and 1842. Within the work he unveiled the epistemological perspective of positivism. The works were translated into English by Harriet Martineau and condensed to form "The Positive Philosophy of Auguste Comte" (1853).
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] R. K. Milholland  Randal Keith Milholland (born November 25, 1975
Who is the author of A Positive? [SEP] Norman Vincent Peale  Norman Vincent Peale (May 31, 1898 – December 24, 1993) was an American Protestant clergyman,<ref name = BritConciseEncycl_NVP/> and an author best known for popularizing the concept of positive thinking, especially through his best-selling book "The Power of Positive Thinking" (1952). He served as the pastor of Marble Collegiate Church, New York, from 1932, leading this Reformed Church in America congregation for more than a half century until his retirement in 1984. Alongside his pulpit ministry, he had an extensive career of writing and editing, and radio and television presentations. Despite arguing at times against involvement of clergy in politics, he nevertheless had some controversial affiliations with politically active organizations in the late 1930s, and engaged with national political candidates and their campaigns, having influence on some, including a personal friendship with President Richard Nixon.  Peale led a group opposing the election of John F. Kennedy for president, saying, "Faced with the election of a Catholic, our culture is at stake."<ref name="Newsweek"/> Theologian Reinhold Niebuhr responded that Peale was motivated by "blind prejudice,"<ref name="Newsweek"/> and facing intense public criticism, Peale retracted his statement. He also opposed Adlai Stevenson's candidacy for president because he was divorced, which led Stevenson to famously quip "I find Saint Paul appealing and Saint Peale appalling."<ref name=gagorder/>  Following the publication of Peale's 1952 best seller, his ideas became the focus of criticism from several psychiatric professionals, church theologians and leaders. Peale was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian honor in the United States, on March 26, 1984, by President Ronald Reagan. He died at age 95, following a stroke, on December 24, 1993, in Pawling, New York. He was survived by Ruth Stafford, his wife of 63 years, who had influenced him with regard to the publication of "The Power" in 1952, and with whom he had founded "Guideposts" in 1945; Ruth died on February 6, 2008, at the age of 101.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP]  Down is a four-issue American comic book limited series published in late 2005 and early 2006, by Top Cow Productions, an imprint of Image Comics. The series was written by Warren Ellis and illustrated by Cully Hamner and Tony Harris. Down tells the story of an undercover cop, sent on an unofficial mission to deal with a fellow officer who "went native" when infiltrating a drugs gang.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP]  I'm Down was first published in hardback in the United States on May 26, 2009 through St. Martin's Press.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP]  Greg Downs (born November 22, 1971) is an author and historian. He is best known for the Flannery O'Connor Award-winning short story collection Spit Baths (2006) and his histories of the United States Civil War.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP]  Downs is active on the book reviewing site Goodreads, where he posts regular reviews.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP]  I'm Down is a memoir by the American author Mishna Wolff, originally published by St. Martin's Press in 2009. In the book, she relates her experience of being white while growing up in a predominantly African-American neighborhood and having a different financial situation and culture than the other white children at her gifted student public school program filled with mostly white kids.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP] Watership Down  Watership Down is an adventure novel by English author Richard Adams, published by Rex Collings Ltd of London in 1972. Set in Berkshire in southern England, the story features a small group of rabbits. Although they live in their natural wild environment, with burrows, they are anthropomorphised, possessing their own culture, language, proverbs, poetry, and mythology. Evoking epic themes, the novel follows the rabbits as they escape the destruction of their warren and seek a place to establish a new home (the hill of Watership Down), encountering perils and temptations along the way.  "Watership Down" was Richard Adams' debut novel. It was rejected by several publishers before Collings accepted the manuscript; the published book then won the annual Carnegie Medal (UK), annual Guardian Prize (UK), and other book awards. The novel was adapted into an animated feature film in 1978 and, from 1999 to 2001, an animated children's television series.<ref name="BBC" /> In 2018, a drama of the story was made, which both aired in the UK and was made available on Netflix.  Adams completed a sequel almost 25 years later, in 1996, "Tales from Watership Down", constructed as a collection of 19 short stories about El-ahrairah and the rabbits of the Watership Down warren.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP] Richard Adams  Richard George Adams (9 May 1920 – 24 December 2016)
Who is the author of Down? [SEP] Down and Out in Paris and London  Down and Out in Paris and London is the first full-length work by the English author George Orwell, published in 1933. It is a memoir in two parts on the theme of poverty in the two cities. Its target audience was the middle- and upper-class members of society—those who were more likely to be well educated—and it exposes the poverty existing in two prosperous cities: Paris and London. The first part is an account of living in near-extreme poverty and destitution in Paris and the experience of casual labour in restaurant kitchens. The second part is a travelogue of life on the road in and around London from the tramp's perspective, with descriptions of the types of hostel accommodation available and some of the characters to be found living on the margins.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP] Go Down Moses  "Go Down Moses" is a spiritual phrase that describes events in the Old Testament of the Bible, specifically Exodus 5:1: "And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me", in which God commands Moses to demand the release of the Israelites from bondage in Egypt. This phrase is the title of one of the most well known African American spirituals of all time. The song discusses themes of freedom, a very common occurrence in spirituals. In fact, the song actually had multiple messages, discussing not only the freedom of the Israelites, but also the freedom of runaway enslaved people, and many enslavers outlawed this song because of those very messages. The opening verse as published by the Jubilee Singers in 1872: The lyrics of the song represent liberation of the ancient Jewish people from Egyptian slavery, a story recounted in the Old Testament. For enslaved African Americans, the story was very powerful because they could relate to the experiences of Moses and the Israelites who were enslaved by the pharaoh, representing the enslavers, and it holds the hopeful message that God will help those who are persecuted. The song also makes references to the Jordan River, which was often referred to in spirituals that described finally reaching freedom because such an act of running away often involved crossing one or more rivers. Going "down" to Egypt is derived from the Bible; the Old Testament recognizes the Nile Valley as lower than Jerusalem and the Promised Land; thus, going to Egypt means going "down" while going away from Egypt is "up". In the context of American slavery, this ancient sense of "down" converged with the concept of "down the river" (the Mississippi), where enslaved people's conditions were notoriously worse, a situation which led to the idiom "sell [someone] down the river" in present-day English.
Who is the author of Down? [SEP] Michael Thomas (Man Gone Down author)  Michael Thomas is an American author. He won the 2009 International Dublin Literary Award for his debut novel "Man Gone Down", receiving a prize of €100,000. "Man Gone Down" is also recommended by "The New York Times".
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Author and Book Info.com
Who is the author of Max? [SEP]  Max is a 1982 novel by Howard Fast. It tells the story of a young man who leaves his humble roots on the lower east side of New York City to find success in Hollywood's earliest stages. Max has had 52 editions of publication in 10 languages.
Who is the author of Max? [SEP]  Max (ISBN: 9780763611385) is a children's book by Bob Graham. In 2000 it won the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize Gold Award.
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Max (2020)
Who is the author of Max? [SEP]  Max Moreno is the pen name of Adelmo Laurentino Nunes, (born August 7, 1968) a Brazilian novelist. The plots of his books involve crime, suspense and psychological fiction.
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Max Lucado  Max Lucado (born January 11, 1955) is an American author and minister at Oak Hills Church (formerly the Oak Hills Church of Christ) in San Antonio, Texas.
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Tucker Max  Tucker Max (born September 27, 1975) is an American author and public speaker. He chronicles his drinking and sexual encounters in the form of short stories on his website "TuckerMax.com", which has received millions of visitors since Max launched it as the result of a bet in 2000.  "I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell" was a "New York Times" #1 Bestseller and made the Best Seller List each year from 2006 to 2012. It has sold over one million copies worldwide, including 400,000 copies in 2009 alone. His book was subsequently made into a feature film of the same title, which received generally negative reviews and numerous critics considered to be one of the worst films of the year. In 2010, he released a book titled "Assholes Finish First", and in 2012 marked the literary releases of both "Hilarity Ensues" and "Sloppy Seconds: The Tucker Max Leftovers". He was a 2009 Time 100 finalist based on internet votes, although he did not make the magazine list.
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Max Brooks  Maximillian Michael Brooks (born May 22, 1972)
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Max Porter (writer)  Max Porter (born 1981) is an English writer, formerly a bookseller and editor, best known for his debut novel "Grief is the Thing with Feathers".
Who is the author of Max? [SEP] Max Adams  Max Adams is a British author, archaeologist., television presenter, and woodsman. His books cover a wide range of subjects from British history, to Arboriculture, and even his own novel. He currently manages his own young woodland in the north of England and has set up a new not-for-profit partnership called "Woods for the Trees" which aims to bring together: people who would like to help cultivate healthy woodlands, with unused land that needs people's input and time... Max also co-founded, and helps to organise, an archaeological adult-education program called "The Bernician Studies Group" who, among other pursuits, have performed an archaeological survey of monastic sites in Donegal
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP]  What You Make It is a short story collection by English writer Michael Marshall Smith, first published in 1999. It was his first short story collection. The contents were later republished as part of the expanded collection More Tomorrow & Other Stories, which, unlike What You Make It, was available outside of the UK.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP]  Most volumes had a theme to which the articles in the special section are usually related. Notable previous columnists include Cory Doctorow, Lee D. Zlotoff, Mr. Jalopy, and Bruce Sterling. The cartoonist Roy Doty has also contributed to many issues of the magazine. The Skill Builder section was a frequent feature teaching skills in areas as diverse as welding, electronics, and moldmaking. Make's founder and publisher is O'Reilly co-founder Dale Dougherty along with Sherry Huss, Vice President Make; the executive editor was Mike Senese. In Germany, Austria and Switzerland (DACH) the Heise Zeitschriften Verlag was under license to publish a German-language edition of Make independently of the English-language one. Maker Media GmbH produced and published the magazine every other month.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP]  him by some hackers. The conference organizer, Eric Corley (aka Emmanuel Goldstein) penned a rebuttal to Platt's article and commentary on his methods that was published partially in the "Rants and Raves" section of Wired, Issue 3.02. Platt's book Make:Electronics was published in December, 2009 by O'Reilly Media. An introductory-level hands-on tutorial, it is available in conjunction with kits of components from Maker Shed. Make:More Electronics (a sequel) and volumes 1, 2, and 3 of Encyclopedia of Electronic Components have since been published, followed by Make: Tools, a basic tutorial in the use of hand tools. All of Platt's books sharing the Make: logo are illustrated with his own drawings and photographs.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP]  to that created by Albert Goldman's 1988 biography The Lives of John Lennon. Beatles fans took to calling Brown's book The Muck You Rake. Its accuracy has been challenged by another former Beatles insider, Ken Mansfield, in his 2000 memoir The Beatles, the Bible and Bodega Bay. The Love You Make was reissued in 2002 by New American Library, with minor revisions and a foreword by Rolling Stone journalist Anthony DeCurtis. Speaking to New York magazine, Brown explained his decision to re-publish, saying that he had read a review of the Beatles Anthology book that mentioned "other Beatle books and not mine. And I got pissed off."
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP]  Make Me is the twentieth book in the Jack Reacher series written by Lee Child. It was initially published on 8 September 2015 by Delacorte Press. The novel is written in the third person.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP] You Are My Sunshine  "You Are My Sunshine" is a song published by Jimmie Davis and Charles Mitchell on January 30, 1940. According to Broadcast Music, Inc. (BMI), the song has been recorded by over 350 artists and translated into 30 languages.   In 1977, the Louisiana State Legislature decreed "You Are My Sunshine" the state song in honor of Jimmie Davis, a two-time governor of the state.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP] The Love You Make  The Love You Make: An Insider's Story of the Beatles is a 1983 book by Peter Brown and Steven Gaines. Brown was personal assistant to the Beatles' manager, Brian Epstein, a senior executive at Apple Corps, as well as best man to John Lennon at the latter's wedding to Yoko Ono in March 1969.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP] (You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman  "(You Make Me Feel Like) A Natural Woman" is a 1967 single released by American soul singer Aretha Franklin on the Atlantic label. The words were written by Gerry Goffin from an idea by Atlantic producer Jerry Wexler, and the music was composed by Carole King. Written for Franklin, the record was a big hit reaching number 8 on the "Billboard" Hot 100, and became one of her signature songs. It made history in the UK singles chart a week after her death, finally becoming a hit almost 51 years after it was first released entering at #79. Franklin also included a live recording on the album "Aretha in Paris" in 1968.   Carole King herself recorded the song for her 1971 album "Tapestry". Among the numerous cover versions of the song include versions by Mary J. Blige and Celine Dion, both of which charted in the same year (1995). At the 2015 Kennedy Center Honors, Aretha Franklin performed the song to honor award-recipient Carole King.
Who is the author of What You Make It? [SEP] When life gives you lemons, make lemonade  When life gives you lemons, make lemonade is a proverbial phrase used to encourage optimism and a positive can-do attitude in the face of adversity or misfortune. Lemons suggest sourness or difficulty in life; making lemonade is turning them into something positive or desirable.
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Robert Nathan, (1894–1985) author of Portrait of Jennie ; Geoff Nelder, (born 1947) author of Exit, Pursued by a Bee ; Robert Newcomb, author of A March into Darkness ; William Nicholson, (born 1948) author of The Wind Singer ; Douglas Niles, author of the Watershed trilogy and other series ; Jenny Nimmo, (born 1944) author of Children of the Red King and The Magician Trilogy ; Larry Niven, (born 1938) author of The Magic May Return ; Garth Nix, (born 1963) author of Sabriel and sequels ; Charles Nodier, (1790–1844) ; Alyson Noël, author of Evermore ; John Norman, (born 1931) author of the Gor series ; Claire North, pseudonym for Catherine Webb, author of The First Fifteen Lives of Harry August ; Andre Norton, (1912–2005) author of High Sorcery ; Kate Novak, author of the Finder's Stone trilogy with Jeff Grubb ; Naomi Novik, author of the Temeraire series ; Jody Lynn Nye, author of the Mythology 101 series and co author of the MythAdventures series with Robert Asprin. ; Eric S. Nylund, (born 1964)
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Diana Gabaldon, (born 1952) author of the Outlander series ; Neil Gaiman, (born 1960) author of novels, short stories, The Books of Magic and other graphic novels ; Sara Gallardo, (1931–1988) author of Enero ("January") and El País del Humo ("Country of the Smoke") ; Craig Shaw Gardner, (born 1949) author of the Dragon Circle series and film novelizations ; Richard Garfinkle (fl. 1990s) author of All of an Instant ; Alan Garner, (born 1934) author of Elidor and The Weirdstone of Brisingamen ; Richard Garnett, (1835–1906) author of The Twilight of the Gods and Other Tales ; Randall Garrett, (1927–1987) author of the Lord Darcy novels ; David Gemmell, (1948–2006) author of the Drenai
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP]  L. E. (Leland Exton) Modesitt Jr. (born 19 October 1943) is an American science fiction and fantasy author who has written over 75 novels. He is best known for the fantasy series The Saga of Recluce. By 2015 the 18 novels in the Recluce series had sold nearly three million copies. By 2019 there were 22 Recluce novels. In addition to his novels, Modesitt has published technical studies and articles, columns, poetry, and a number of science fiction stories. His first short story, "The Great American Economy", was published in 1973 in Analog Science Fiction and Science Fact. In 2008, he published his first collection of short stories, Viewpoints Critical: Selected Stories (Tor Books, 2008).
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Sarah J. Maas, (born 1986), author of Throne of Glass series ; Julian May, (1931–2017) ; R. A. MacAvoy, (born 1949) author of Tea with the Black Dragon ; George MacDonald, (1824–1905) author of Lilith ; D. J. MacHale, (born 1956) author of the Pendragon series ; Arthur Machen, (1863–1947) author of The Great God Pan ; Violette Malan, author of The Mirror Prince ; Lisa Mantchev, author of Eyes Like Stars ; Juliet Marillier, (born 1948) author of the Sevenwaters Trilogy ; Stephen Marley, author of the Chia Black Dragon series ; George R. R. Martin, (born 1948) author of A Song of Ice and Fire ; Thomas K. Martin, (born 1960) ; John Masefield, (1878–1967) ; Anne McCaffrey,
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP]  Liu, (born 1976) ; Ian Livingstone, co-author of many Fighting Fantasy books ; H. P. Lovecraft, author of the Cthulhu Mythos ; Ruth Frances Long, (born 1971) author of The Treachery of Beautiful Things ; James Lowder, (born 1963) author of Prince of Lies and Knight of the Black Rose ; Helen Lowe, (born 1961) author of the Heir of Night series ; Lois Lowry, (born 1937) author of The Giver and Gathering Blue ; Elizabeth A. Lynn, (born 1946) author of The Chronicles of Tornor ; Patricia Lynch, (1894–1972) author of The Turf-cutter's Donkey ; Scott Lynch, (born 1978) author of The Gentleman Bastard sequence
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I  Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I is an anthology of fantasy novellas, edited by American writer Lin Carter. It was first published in paperback by Ballantine Books in September, 1972 as the fifty-second volume of its "Ballantine Adult Fantasy series". It was the eighth such anthology assembled by Carter for the series.<ref name="ISFDB"/> Section::::Summary. The book collects four novellas by five fantasy authors, with an overall introduction and notes by Carter. It is a companion volume to Carter's subsequent collection "Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy Volume II" (1973).<ref name="ISFDB"/><ref name="IW"/>
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy Volume II  Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy Volume II is an anthology of fantasy novellas, edited by American writer Lin Carter. It was first published in paperback by Ballantine Books in March, 1973 as the fifty-sixth volume of its "Ballantine Adult Fantasy series". It was the ninth such anthology assembled by Carter for the series.<ref name="ISFDB"/><ref name="IW"/>
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Ballantine Adult Fantasy series  The Ballantine Adult Fantasy series was an imprint of American publisher Ballantine Books. Launched in 1969 (presumably in response to the growing popularity of Tolkien's works), the series reissued a number of works of fantasy literature which were out of print or dispersed in back issues of pulp magazines (or otherwise not easily available in the United States), in cheap paperback form—including works by authors such as James Branch Cabell, Lord Dunsany, Ernest Bramah, Hope Mirrlees, and William Morris. The series lasted until 1974.  Envisioned by the husband-and-wife team of Ian and Betty Ballantine, and edited by Lin Carter, it featured cover art by illustrators such as Gervasio Gallardo, Robert LoGrippo, David McCall Johnston, and Bob Pepper. The agreement signed between the Ballantines and Carter on November 22, 1968, launched the project. In addition to the reprints comprising the bulk of the series, some new fantasy works were published as well as a number of original collections and anthologies put together by Carter, and "Imaginary Worlds", his general history of the modern fantasy genre.<ref name="SFE"/>  The series was never considered a money-maker for Ballantine, although the re-issue of several of its titles both before and after the series' demise shows that a number of individual works were considered successful. The Ballantines supported the series as long as they remained the publishers of Ballantine Books, but with their sale of the company to Random House in 1973 support from the top was no longer forthcoming, and in 1974, with the end of the Ballantines' involvement in the company they had founded, the series was terminated.  After the termination of the Adult Fantasy series, Ballantine continued to publish fantasy but concentrated primarily on new titles, with the older works it continued to issue being those with proven track records. In 1977, both its fantasy and science fiction lines were relaunched under the Del Rey Books imprint, under the editorship of Lester and Judy-Lynn del Rey. Carter continued his promotion of the fantasy genre in a new line of annual anthologies from DAW Books, "The Year's Best Fantasy Stories", also beginning in 1975.
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Young adult fiction  Young adult fiction (YA) is a category of fiction written for readers from 12 to 18 years of age. While the genre is primarily targeted at adolescents, approximately half of YA readers are adults.  The subject matter and genres of YA correlate with the age and experience of the protagonist. The genres available in YA are expansive and include most of those found in adult fiction. Common themes related to YA include friendship, first love, relationships, and identity. Stories that focus on the specific challenges of youth are sometimes referred to as problem novels or coming-of-age novels.  Young adult fiction was developed to soften the transition between children's novels and adult literature.
Who is the author of Great Short Novels of Adult Fantasy I? [SEP] Discoveries in Fantasy  Discoveries in Fantasy is an anthology of fantasy short stories, edited by American writer Lin Carter. It was first published in paperback by Ballantine Books in March 1972 as the forty-third volume of its "Ballantine Adult Fantasy series". It was the seventh such anthology assembled by Carter for the series.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP]  He is the author of The Voice in the Machine, published by MIT Press in 2011, a general audience book on the history, technology, and the business of computers that understand speech. In September 2021, still with MIT Press, he published AI Assistants, an accessible account of the recent evolution of virtual digital assistant like Siri, Amazon Alexa, and the Google Assistant.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP]  The Voice's academic sponsors included Professor James Engell, the head of Harvard's English Department, and sociology professor Jason Kaufman. One-time contributors who have since not written for the Voice include Professor Kaufman, Senior Lecturer Tim McCarthy, and Adam Goldenberg, who was named one of the top 100 college writers in the U.S. in 2008.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP]  Published by Audible in 2011, it includes four prize winning stories, and, as in the earlier volumes, Ellison reads his own work. The print version of this collection won a British Science Fiction Award for short fiction.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP]  The Voice From the Edge is a series of audiobooks collecting  short stories written and narrated by American author Harlan Ellison. The first two volumes were published by Fantastic Audio; they were republished by Blackstone Audio in 2011. The uploading of these audio books to a newsgroup on the internet led to a court case to decide the liability of a service provider according to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The fourth volume was published by Audible. Stories collected in these audio books include some of Ellison's best known works, from his earliest publications, from the 1950s, to his more recent, published in the early to late 2000s. Ellison as an audio actor/reader has been nominated for a Grammy Award twice and has won several Audie Awards. Reviews of these collections praise Ellison's skilled narration.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP]  Voice of Our Shadow is a novel written by Jonathan Carroll. It won the Washington Post Book of the Year in 1983. The book is about a young writer, Joe Lennox, taking refuge in Vienna after his brother's death. There he became the friend of a married couple and fell in love with the wife. The husband finds out about their relationship and dies of a heart attack.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP] The Voice (poem)  "The Voice" is a poem by English author Thomas Hardy, which was published in "Satires of Circumstance" 1914.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP] You're the Voice  "You're the Voice" is a song written by Andy Qunta, Keith Reid, Maggie Ryder and Chris Thompson, and recorded by the Australian singer John Farnham and released as a single in September 1986 ahead of his album "Whispering Jack". "You're the Voice" was one of the biggest hits of 1986 in Australia, topping the Kent Music Report singles chart for seven weeks from 3 November to 21 December. At the ARIA Music Awards of 1987 it won Single of the Year.  The music video was recorded with celebrities (Derryn Hinch and Jacki Weaver) and musicians (James and Vince Leigh of Pseudo Echo, Greg Macainsh), none of whom are on the original audio recording; and were assembled by Farnham's talent manager, Glenn Wheatley. Wheatley later recalled, "[it] was done on a shoestring budget. I called in Derryn and Jacki, some of the guys from Pseudo Echo (James and Vince Leigh) and Greg Macainsh from Skyhooks are in the band, it was pretty much anyone who'd do me a favour."<ref name="Adams"/>  "You're the Voice" re-entered the Australian singles chart more than 25 years after its original release (reaching No. 64), thanks to its appearance (to advertise the company's "SYNC" voice control system) in a 2012 Ford TV commercial.  The power ballad is also one of Farnham's biggest successes in Europe, charting at No. 1 in Germany and Sweden and reaching the Top 10 in Austria, Ireland, Switzerland and the UK. Although "You're the Voice" was also successful in Canada (reaching the Top 20), in the US the track performed relatively poorly, missing the chart on its initial 1987 issue. BMG/RCA re-released the song in the US in February 1990 after Farnham made the Adult Contemporary chart with "Two Strong Hearts". Farnham's version eventually spent eight weeks on the US charts, peaking at No. 82, but in the US the song is probably best known for a charting version issued in 1991 by the band Heart.  In January 2018, as part of Triple M's "Ozzest 100" of the "most Australian' songs of all time", the song was ranked number 6.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP] The Voice (Bible translation)  The Voice is a modern language, dynamic equivalent English translation of the Bible developed by Thomas Nelson (a subsidiary of News Corp) and the Ecclesia Bible Society. The original New Testament was released in January 2011, the revised and updated New Testament was released in November 2011, and the full Bible was released in April 2012.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP] Stranger than Fiction (2006 film)  Stranger than Fiction is a 2006 American fantasy comedy-drama film directed by Marc Forster, produced by Lindsay Doran, and written by Zach Helm. The film stars Will Ferrell, Maggie Gyllenhaal, Dustin Hoffman, Queen Latifah, and Emma Thompson. The main plot follows Harold Crick (Ferrell), an IRS agent who begins hearing a disembodied voice narrating his life as it happens – seemingly the text of a novel in which it is stated that he, the main character, will soon die – and he frantically seeks to somehow prevent that ending. The film was shot on location in Chicago, and has been praised for its innovative, intelligent story and fine performances. Ferrell, who came to prominence playing brash comedic parts, garnered particular attention for offering a restrained performance in his first starring dramatic role.  "Stranger than Fiction" was released by Columbia Pictures on November 10, 2006. Upon release, the film received positive reviews mainly for its themes, humor, and performances.
Who is the author of The Voice? [SEP] Mo Willems  Mo Willems (born February 11, 1968) is an American writer, animator, voice actor, and children's book author. His work includes creating the animated television series "Sheep in the Big City" for Cartoon Network, working on "Sesame Street" and "The Off-Beats", and creating the popular children's book series "Elephant and Piggie".   Willems was born in the Chicago suburb of Des Plaines, Illinois and was raised in New Orleans, where he graduated from Trinity Episcopal School and the Isidore Newman School. He graduated cum laude<ref name="Wedding" /> from New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.   Willems first became interested in cartoon art when he was just a child. When he was 3 or 4 he started to draw and create his own characters. Willems enjoyed writing stories about his characters to share with others. However, he was disappointed when adults would praise his work out of politeness. To fix this dilemma Willems started writing funny stories. He knew that even polite adults could not fake a laugh. So when the adults laughed he knew his story was good and if the adults still gave polite comments then he knew his story was bad.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP]  Follow The Music the autobiography of record mogul Jac Holzman and the founding of his record company Elektra Records, written by Jac Holzman and Gavan Daws. The books follows Holzman on his journey from overseeing limited pressings of obscure folk artists to signing international stars such as The Doors, right up to the sale of the company and beyond. Since its initial publication in 1998, the book has been described as "a must-read addition to the best chronicles of popular music in this over-stulated century" by Timothy White, editor in chief at Billboard magazine, and an "extraordinary history ... funny, enlightening, and entertaining" by Allmusic.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP]  Greg's first novel, "Face the Music", was published on December 1, 2014 by Plus One Press. The novel "Face the Music" is a fictional story about a love song called "Stephanie". In 2014 Greg composed a song by the same name with Grateful Dead lyricist Robert Hunter and recorded it with Steve Kimock, Melvin Seals, Tim Hockenberry and Robin Sylvester.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] Notes Bibliography
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP]  over the years including Edgar Winter, Blues Traveler, Boney James and Mindi Abair. Miller released his first solo album called Summer Of Love in 2020.  His second solo album called Miller Rocks was released song by song in 2021 via his podcast, Follow Your Dream. In March 2021, Miller started hosting a podcast called Follow Your Dream, with the goal of motivating others to pursue their dreams. The podcast has featured musicians, authors, broadcasters, actors and others as guests. In August 2021, Miller released the Follow Your Dream Handbook to accompany the podcast. The handbook presents his own autobiographical account and experiences and is a step by step how-to. The Handbook has become an Amazon #1 Bestseller.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP]  study of music in earnest, and sought the best musical text-books and works on the highest forms of musical composition". When asked to explain his methods of composition, in particular whether in his own hymns words or music came first, Lowry replied: "'I have no method. Sometimes the music comes and the words follow, fitted insensibly to the melody. I watch my moods, and when anything good strikes me, whether words or music, and no matter where I am, at home or on the street, I jot it down. Often the margin of a newspaper or the back of an envelope serves as a notebook. My
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] I Follow Rivers  "I Follow Rivers" is a song by Swedish recording artist Lykke Li from her second studio album, "Wounded Rhymes" (2011). Produced by Björn Yttling of Peter Bjorn and John, it was released on 21January 2011 as the album's second single. The track premiered exclusively on SPIN.com on 10January 2011.  Belgian DJ/producer The Magician remixed and reworked "I Follow Rivers" in 2011, peaking at number one in Belgium, Germany, Italy, Poland, and Romania, number two in Switzerland, Austria, Ireland, and the Netherlands, and number four in France. The remix was deemed "'90s house". Belgian band Triggerfinger covered "I Follow Rivers" in 2012, peaking at number one in Austria, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] Follow Me (Uncle Kracker song)  "Follow Me" is the debut single of American musician Uncle Kracker. It was released on November 7, 2000, as the lead single from his debut studio album, "Double Wide" (2000). It was written by Kracker and Michael Bradford and was produced by Bradford and Kid Rock. According to Kracker, the song has multiple meanings, with people speculating that it could be about drugs or infidelity.  "Follow Me" became a worldwide hit in mid to late 2001. The song reached number one in eight countries: Australia, Austria, Denmark, Germany, Ireland, New Zealand, Scotland, and Sweden. In the United States, it peaked at number five on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and topped the Adult Top 40 listing. It additionally became a top-10 hit in Norway, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom and peaked within the top 40 in several other European countries.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] I Will Follow Him  "I Will Follow Him" is a popular song that was first recorded in 1961 by Franck Pourcel, as an instrumental titled "Chariot". The song achieved its widest success when it was recorded by American singer Little Peggy March with English lyrics in 1963. The music was written by Franck Pourcel (using the pseudonym J.W. Stole) and Paul Mauriat (using the pseudonym Del Roma). It was adapted by Arthur Altman. The completely new English lyrics were written by Norman Gimbel.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] I Have Decided to Follow Jesus  "I Have Decided to Follow Jesus" is a Christian hymn that originated in Assam, India.   According to P. Job, the lyrics are based on the last words of Nokseng, a Garo man, a tribe from Meghalaya which then was in Assam, who converted to Christianity in the middle of the 19th century through the efforts of an American Baptist missionary. He is said to have recited verses from the twelfth chapter of the Gospel of John as he and his family were killed. The formation of the martyr's words into a hymn has been attributed to the Indian missionary Sadhu Sundar Singh.   An alternative tradition attributes the hymn to pastor Simon K Marak from Jorhat, Assam.  The melody of the song is Indian, and was titled "Assam" after the region where the text originated.  An American hymn editor, William Jensen Reynolds, composed an arrangement which was included in the 1959 "Assembly Songbook". His version became a regular feature of Billy Graham's evangelistic meetings in America and elsewhere, spreading its popularity.  Due to the lyrics' explicit focus on the believer's own commitment, the hymn is cited as a prime example of decision theology, emphasizing the human response rather than the action of God in giving faith. This has led to its exclusion from some hymnals.
Who is the author of Follow The Music? [SEP] Follow That Dream (song)  "Follow That Dream" is a song first recorded by Elvis Presley as part of the soundtrack for his 1962 motion picture "Follow That Dream".  It was also in 1962 released as the first track of the EP "Follow That Dream".  The song peaked at number 15 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 and at number 5 on the "Billboard" Easy Listening chart.<ref name="AllMusic - Awards" />
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time After Time (1979) ; A Private Investigation (1980) ; Jaclyn the Ripper (2009) – sequel to Time After Time ; Papa and Fidel: A Novel (2010) ; Time-Crossed Lovers (2012)
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP]  Time After Time is a 1979 science fiction novel by American writer Karl Alexander. Its plot speculates what might have happened if H. G. Wells had built a real time machine to travel to the 1970s in search of Jack the Ripper. The novel was adapted to film the same year, under the same title, by Alexander's friend Nicholas Meyer who had optioned the story after reading the early pages. Meyer wrote his screenplay as Alexander finished the novel and the two freely shared ideas for their respective iterations. A short-lived television series adaptation aired in 2017.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP]  A musical version of the novel, with book and lyrics by Stephen Cole and music by Jeffrey Saver, had its first reading in November 2007 as part of the American Musical Theatre Project at Northwestern University in Illinois and in 2010 had its world premiere at the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time After Time (Carroll and Graf, 1985) ; Sea of Time (1987, traditionally unpublished; electronically published via Kindle, 2012) ; Twice Upon A Time (Carroll and Graf, 1988) ; Till the End of Time (Doubleday, 1990) ; In Time of War: An Alex Balfour Novel (Carroll and Graf, 2003) ; The Test of Time: An Alex Balfour Novel (Independent Publishing, 2015) ; Hellhound (with Craig Roberts) (Independent Publishing, 2014)
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP]  On May 12, 2016, it was announced that the ABC television network had picked up a Time After Time television series to air in the 2016-2017 television season. The series was executive produced and written by Kevin Williamson. On March 29, 2017, after just four weeks on the air, the show was canceled and left unresolved with the remaining seven episodes not to be aired due to low viewer ratings.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time After Time (Cyndi Lauper song)  "Time After Time" is a 1983 song by American singer-songwriter Cyndi Lauper, co-written with Rob Hyman, who also provided backing vocals. It was the second single released from her debut studio album, "She's So Unusual" (1983). The track was produced by Rick Chertoff and released as a single on January 27, 1984. The song became Lauper's first number 1 hit in the U.S. The song was written in the album's final stages, after "Girls Just Wanna Have Fun", "She Bop" and "All Through the Night" had been written. The writing began with the title, which Lauper had seen in "TV Guide" magazine, referring to the science fiction film "Time After Time" (1979).  Music critics gave the song positive reviews, with many commending the song for being a solid and memorable love song. The song has been selected as one of the Best Love Songs of All Time by many media outlets, including "Rolling Stone", Nerve, MTV and many others. "Time After Time" was also nominated for a Grammy Award for Song of the Year at the 1985 edition. The song was a success on the charts, becoming her first number-one single on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 chart on June 9, 1984, and remaining there for two weeks. The song reached number three on the UK Singles Chart and number six on the ARIA Singles Chart.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time After Time (1947 song)  "Time After Time" is a romantic jazz standard with lyrics written by Sammy Cahn and music by Jule Styne in 1946.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time and Again (Finney novel)  Time and Again is a 1970 illustrated novel by American writer Jack Finney. The many illustrations in the book are real, though, as explained in an endnote, not all are from 1882, the year in which the main action of the book takes place.  A sequel, "From Time to Time" (1995), was published during the final year of the author's life. The book left room for a third novel, apparently never written.  In the afterword of "11/22/63", Stephen King states that "Time and Again" is "in this writer’s humble opinion, the great time-travel story." He had originally intended to dedicate his book to Jack Finney.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] The Time Machine  The Time Machine is a science fiction novella by H. G. Wells, published in 1895. The work is generally credited with the popularization of the concept of time travel by using a vehicle or device to travel purposely and selectively forward or backward through time. The term "time machine", coined by Wells, is now almost universally used to refer to such a vehicle or device.  Utilizing a frame story set in then-present Victorian England, Wells' text focuses on a recount of the otherwise anonymous Time Traveller's journey into the far future. A work of future history and speculative evolution, "Time Machine" is interpreted in modern times as a commentary on the increasing inequality and class divisions of Wells' era, which he projects as giving rise to two separate human species: the fair, childlike Eloi, and the savage, simian Morlocks, distant descendants of the contemporary upper and lower classes respectively. It is believed that Wells' depiction of the Eloi as a race living in plenitude and abandon was inspired by the utopic romance novel "News from Nowhere" (1890), though Wells' universe in the novel is notably more savage and brutal.  In his 1931 preface to the book, Wells wrote that "The Time Machine" seemed "a very undergraduate performance to its now mature writer, as he looks over it once more", though he states that "the writer feels no remorse for this youthful effort". However, critics have praised the novella's handling of its thematic concerns, with Marina Warner writing that the book was the most significant contribution to understanding before Sigmund Freud's "The Interpretation of Dreams", with the novel "[conveying] how close he felt to the melancholy seeker after a door that he once opened on to a luminous vision and could never find again".  "The Time Machine" has been adapted into two feature films of the same name, as well as two television versions and many comic book adaptations. It has also indirectly inspired many more works of fiction in many media productions.
Who is the author of Time After Time? [SEP] Time After Time (Appel novel)  Time After Time is a novel by Allen Appel, first published in 1985 by Carroll & Graf. It launched the "Alex Balfour" series of time travel novels, which the author usually refers to as the "Pastmaster" series.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP]  (1997); The Climbing Essays (2006); West: A Journey through the Landscapes of Loss (2010). A rock climber and travel writer. ; Rory Stewart, The Places in Between (2006). A walk across Afghanistan in 2002, after the Russians had left. ; Cheryl Strayed, Wild: From Lost to Found on the Pacific Crest Trail (2013). Describes the grueling life of the long-distance hiker, the perils of the PCT, and its peculiar community of wanderers. ; Robert Macfarlane, Mountains of the Mind: A History of a Fascination; The Wild Places; The Old Ways: A Journey on Foot (2012). He is one of a number of recent British writers who have provoked a new critical and popular interest in writing about landscape.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] Mountains Beyond Mountains (Adapted for Young People) with Michael French, 2014, 288 Pages, ISBN: 9780385743198
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP]  Grafton is a travel writer who decides to write the first ever travel guide to "the land beyond the mountains", an otherwise-unnamed Eastern European nation which is almost impossible to reach.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP]  Mountains Beyond Mountains: The Quest of Dr. Paul Farmer, A Man Who Would Cure the World (2003) is a non-fiction, biographical work by American writer Tracy Kidder. The book traces the life of physician and anthropologist Paul Farmer with particular focus on his work fighting tuberculosis in Haiti, Peru and Russia.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] A Walk Across America (1979) ; The Walk West (1981) ; Journey into China (1982) ; The Tennessee Sampler (1985) ; Across China (1986) ; The Road Unseen (1987) ; Close Friends (1989) ; Along the Edge of America (1995) ; The Untamed Coast (1995) ; Looking for Alaska (2001)
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] The Magic Mountain  The Magic Mountain (, ) is a novel by Thomas Mann, first published in German in November 1924. It is widely considered to be one of the most influential works of twentieth-century German literature.  Mann started writing "The Magic Mountain" in 1912. It began as a much shorter narrative that comically revisited the aspects of "Death in Venice", a novella that he was preparing for publication. The newer work reflected his experiences and impressions during a period when his wife, who was suffering from a lung complaint, resided at Dr. Friedrich Jessen's "Waldsanatorium" in Davos, Switzerland for several months. In May and June 1912, Mann visited her and became acquainted with the team of doctors and patients in this cosmopolitan institution. According to Mann, in the afterword that was later included in the English translation of his novel, this stay inspired his opening chapter ("Arrival").  The outbreak of World War I interrupted his work on the book. The savage conflict and its aftermath led the author to undertake a major re-examination of European bourgeois society. He explored the sources of the destructiveness displayed by much of civilised humanity. He was also drawn to speculate about more general questions related to personal attitudes to life, health, illness, sexuality, and mortality. His political stance also changed during this period, from opposing the Weimar Republic to supporting it.<ref name="Monatshefte" /> Given this, Mann felt compelled to radically revise and expand the pre-war text before completing it in 1924. "Der Zauberberg" was eventually published in two volumes by S. Fischer Verlag in Berlin.  Mann's vast composition is erudite, subtle, ambitious, but, most of all, ambiguous; since its original publication it has been subject to a variety of critical assessments. For example, the book blends a scrupulous realism with deeper symbolic undertones. Given this complexity, each reader is obliged to interpret the significance of the pattern of events in the narrative, a task made more difficult by the author's irony. Mann was well aware of his book's elusiveness, but offered few clues about approaches to the text. He later compared it to a symphonic work orchestrated with a number of themes. In a playful commentary on the problems of interpretation—"The Making of "The Magic Mountain"," written 25 years after the novel's original publication—he recommended that those who wished to understand it should read it twice.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] John Muir  John Muir ( ; April 21, 1838December 24, 1914), also known as "John of the Mountains" and "Father of the National Parks", was an influential Scottish-American<ref name=Fox/> naturalist, author, environmental philosopher, botanist, zoologist, glaciologist, and early advocate for the preservation of wilderness in the United States of America.  His letters, essays, and books describing his adventures in nature, especially in the Sierra Nevada, have been read by millions. His activism helped to preserve the Yosemite Valley and Sequoia National Park, and his example has served as an inspiration for the preservation of many other wilderness areas. The Sierra Club, which he co-founded, is a prominent American conservation organization. In his later life, Muir devoted most of his time to the preservation of the Western forests. As part of the campaign to make Yosemite a national park, Muir published two landmark articles on wilderness preservation in "The Century Magazine", "The Treasures of the Yosemite" and "Features of the Proposed Yosemite National Park"; this helped support the push for U.S. Congress to pass a bill in 1890 establishing Yosemite National Park. The spiritual quality and enthusiasm toward nature expressed in his writings has inspired readers, including presidents and congressmen, to take action to help preserve large nature areas.  John Muir has been considered "an inspiration to both Scots and Americans". Muir's biographer, Steven J. Holmes, believes that Muir has become "one of the patron saints of twentieth-century American environmental activity", both political and recreational. As a result, his writings are commonly discussed in books and journals, and he has often been quoted by nature photographers such as Ansel Adams. "Muir has profoundly shaped the very categories through which Americans understand and envision their relationships with the natural world", writes Holmes.<ref name=Holmes/>  Muir was noted for being an ecological thinker, political spokesman, and religious prophet, whose writings became a personal guide into nature for many people, making his name "almost ubiquitous" in the modern environmental consciousness. According to author William Anderson, Muir exemplified "the archetype of our oneness with the earth", while biographer Donald Worster says he believed his mission was "saving the American soul from total surrender to materialism". On April 21, 2013, the first John Muir Day was celebrated in Scotland, which marked the 175th anniversary of his birth, paying homage to the conservationist.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] My Side of the Mountain  My Side of the Mountain is a middle-grade adventure novel written and illustrated by American writer Jean Craighead George published by E. P. Dutton in 1959. It features a boy who learns courage, independence, and the need for companionship while attempting to live in the Catskill Mountains of New York State. In 1960, it was one of three Newbery Medal Honor Books (runners-up) and in 1969 it was loosely adapted as a film of the same name. George continued the story in print, decades later.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] Jon Krakauer  Jon Krakauer (born April 12, 1954) is an American writer and mountaineer. He is the author of bestselling non-fiction books—"Into the Wild"; "Into Thin Air"; "Under the Banner of Heaven"; and ""—as well as numerous magazine articles. He was a member of an ill-fated expedition to summit Mount Everest in 1996, one of the deadliest disasters in the history of climbing Everest.
Who is the author of Across Many Mountains? [SEP] Eisenvogel  Eisenvogel is a Swiss book published by the Swiss-Tibetan writer, filmdirector ("Who Killed Johnny") and actress Yangzom Brauen. The full title of the biography "Eisenvogel: Drei Frauen aus Tibet. Die Geschichte meiner Familie", literally means "Iron bird, three women from Tibet, the history of my family". First published in 2009, the illustrated book is also distributed as paperback, eBook and audiobook in German language.<ref name="randomhouse"/>
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP]  Small Changes is a collection of science fiction short stories by Hal Clement, published by Doubleday in 1969. It was issued in Great Britain by Robert Hale Publishing, and reprinted in paperback by Dell Books as Space Lash.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP]  Microtrends: The Small Forces Behind Tomorrow's Big Changes is a non-fiction book by Mark Penn and Kinney Zalesne. The text was initially published by Twelve on September 5, 2007. Mark Penn has been named the winner of the Consumer Insights category in the 2010 Atticus Awards for this book.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] Joshua Becker, minimalist writer ; Dr. Gary Smalley, prominent author, family counselor, and motivational speaker
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP]  Small Steps is a 2006 novel for young adults by Louis Sachar, first published by Delacorte Books (Dell). It is a spinoff and the sequel to Holes, although the main character of Holes, Stanley Yelnats, is only briefly and indirectly mentioned.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP]  of his albums, as he included more instrumentation, and appearances by other artists, including instrumental and vocal backing by popular New England folk artists. Famous fiddlers, guitarists, and mandolin players alike became a part of Small's discography and helped Small increase his popularity. After graduating from Harvard Divinity School, he became the minister of First Church Unitarian in Littleton, Massachusetts in 1996. On April 20, 2008, he was called as Senior Minister at First Parish in Cambridge, Massachusetts. Small resigned in September 2015 to devote his energies to climate advocacy. He is currently Minister for Climate Justice at Arlington Street Church, Boston, and Director of Faith Outreach for Climate XChange, which advocates for carbon pricing legislation in Massachusetts.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] Small Change trilogy  The Small Change trilogy is a series of alternate history novels by the author Jo Walton that were published from 2006 to 2008. The series are set in a Europe in which the United Kingdom exits World War II in 1941. As the series begins, Britain itself slides toward fascism. The series has three books:   The short story, "Escape to Other Worlds with Science Fiction," is set in the United States of the same world as the Small Change trilogy
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] Small Changes  Small Changes is a collection of science fiction short stories by Hal Clement, published by Doubleday in 1969. It was issued in Great Britain by Robert Hale Publishing, and reprinted in paperback by Dell Books as "Space Lash".
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] Butterfly effect  In chaos theory, the butterfly effect is the sensitive dependence on initial conditions in which a small change in one state of a deterministic nonlinear system can result in large differences in a later state.  The term is closely associated with the work of mathematician and meteorologist Edward Norton Lorenz. He noted that the butterfly effect is derived from the metaphorical example of the details of a tornado (the exact time of formation, the exact path taken) being influenced by minor perturbations such as a distant butterfly flapping its wings several weeks earlier. Lorenz originally used a seagull causing a storm but was persuaded to make it more poetic with the use of butterfly and tornado by 1972. He discovered the effect when he observed runs of his weather model with initial condition data that were rounded in a seemingly inconsequential manner. He noted that the weather model would fail to reproduce the results of runs with the unrounded initial condition data. A very small change in initial conditions had created a significantly different outcome.  The idea that small causes may have large effects in weather was earlier recognized by French mathematician and engineer Henri Poincaré. American mathematician and philosopher Norbert Wiener also contributed to this theory. Lorenz's work placed the concept of "instability" of the Earth's atmosphere onto a quantitative base and linked the concept of instability to the properties of large classes of dynamic systems which are undergoing nonlinear dynamics and deterministic chaos.  The butterfly effect concept has since been used outside the context of weather science as a broad term for any situation where a small change is supposed to be the cause of larger consequences.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] Chaos theory  Chaos theory is an interdisciplinary area of scientific study and branch of mathematics focused on underlying patterns and deterministic laws of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions, and were once thought to have completely random states of disorder and irregularities. Chaos theory states that within the apparent randomness of chaotic complex systems, there are underlying patterns, interconnection, constant feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, and self-organization. The butterfly effect, an underlying principle of chaos, describes how a small change in one state of a deterministic nonlinear system can result in large differences in a later state (meaning that there is sensitive dependence on initial conditions). A metaphor for this behavior is that a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil can cause a tornado in Texas.  Small differences in initial conditions, such as those due to errors in measurements or due to rounding errors in numerical computation, can yield widely diverging outcomes for such dynamical systems, rendering long-term prediction of their behavior impossible in general. This can happen even though these systems are deterministic, meaning that their future behavior follows a unique evolution and is fully determined by their initial conditions, with no random elements involved. In other words, the deterministic nature of these systems does not make them predictable. This behavior is known as deterministic chaos, or simply chaos. The theory was summarized by Edward Lorenz as:  Chaotic behavior exists in many natural systems, including fluid flow, heartbeat irregularities, weather, and climate. sociology, environmental science, computer science, engineering, economics, ecology, and pandemic crisis management. The theory formed the basis for such fields of study as complex dynamical systems, edge of chaos theory, and self-assembly processes.
Who is the author of Small Changes? [SEP] The Tipping Point  The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference is the debut book by Malcolm Gladwell, first published by Little, Brown in 2000. Gladwell defines a tipping point as "the moment of critical mass, the threshold, the boiling point." The book seeks to explain and describe the "mysterious" sociological changes that mark everyday life. As Gladwell states: "Ideas and products and messages and behaviors spread like viruses do." The examples of such changes in his book include the rise in popularity and sales of Hush Puppies shoes in the mid-1990s and the steep drop in New York City's crime rate after 1990.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP]  New American Library in 2007. In addition to her two contemporary novels, Melanie also contributed an essay to the anthology IT'S A BOY and maintained a popular mom blog called The Refrigerator Door. Under the pen name Melanie Benjamin (a combination of her first name and her son's first name), she shifted genres to historical fiction. Her third novel, Alice I Have Been, was inspired by Alice Liddell Hargreaves's life. Published in 2010 by Delacorte Press, Alice I Have Been was a national bestseller and reached the extended list of The New York Times Best Seller list. In 2011, Benjamin fictionalized another historical female. Her novel The
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP]  New Adventures of Alice is a novel by John Rae, written in 1917 and published by P. F. Volland of Chicago. It is, according to Carolyn Sigler, one of the more important "Alice imitations", or novels inspired by Lewis Carroll's Alice books. The book opens with a little girl, Betsy, wishing for another Alice book. She passes into a dream, and finds in the attic a book which begins with Alice reading Mother Goose rhymes to her kittens, leading to further adventures. The book features black-and-white line drawings as well as colour plates by the author, who was known for his portraits of Carl Sandburg and Albert Einstein.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP]  Although Go Ask Alice has been credited to an anonymous author since its publication, and was originally promoted as the real, albeit edited, diary of a real teenage girl, over time the book has come to be regarded by researchers as a fake memoir written by Beatrice Sparks,      possibly with the help of one or more co-authors. Despite significant evidence of Sparks' authorship, a percentage of readers and educators have continued to believe that the book is a true-life account of a teenage girl.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP]  Go Ask Alice is a 1971 book about a teenage girl who develops a drug addiction at age 15 and runs away from home on a journey of self-destructive escapism. Attributed to "Anonymous", the book is in diary form, and was originally presented as being the edited "real diary" of the unnamed teenage protagonist. Questions about the book's authenticity and true authorship began to arise in the late 1970s, and Beatrice Sparks it is now generally viewed as the author of the found manuscript-styled fictional document. A therapist, Sparks went on to write numerous other books purporting to be real diaries of troubled teenagers. Some sources have also named Linda Glovach as a co-author of the book. Nevertheless, its
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP]  In a 1998 New York Times book review, Mark Oppenheimer suggested that Go Ask Alice had at least one author besides Sparks. He identified Linda Glovach, an author of young-adult novels, as "one of the 'preparers'—let's call them forgers—of Go Ask Alice", although he did not give his source for this claim. Publishers Weekly, in a review of Glovach's 1998 novel Beauty Queen (which told the story, in diary form, of a 19-year-old girl addicted to heroin), also stated that Glovach was "a co-author of Go Ask Alice".
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP] Lewis Carroll  Charles Lutwidge Dodgson (; 27 January 1832 – 14 January 1898), better known by his pen name Lewis Carroll, was an English author, poet and mathematician. His most notable works are "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" (1865) and its sequel "Through the Looking-Glass" (1871). He was noted for his facility with word play, logic, and fantasy. His poems "Jabberwocky" (1871) and "The Hunting of the Snark" (1876) are classified in the genre of literary nonsense.  Carroll came from a family of high-church Anglicans, and developed a long relationship with Christ Church, Oxford, where he lived for most of his life as a scholar and teacher. Alice Liddell, the daughter of Christ Church's dean Henry Liddell, is widely identified as the original inspiration for "Alice in Wonderland", though Carroll always denied this.  An avid puzzler, Carroll created the word ladder puzzle (which he then called "Doublets"), which he published in his weekly column for "Vanity Fair" magazine between 1879 and 1881. In 1982 a memorial stone to Carroll was unveiled at Poets' Corner in Westminster Abbey. There are societies in many parts of the world dedicated to the enjoyment and promotion of his works.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP] Alice Walker  Alice Malsenior Tallulah-Kate Walker (born February 9, 1944) is an American novelist, short story writer, poet, and social activist. In 1982, she became the first African-American woman to win the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, which she was awarded for her novel "The Color Purple". Over the span of her career, Walker has published seventeen novels and short story collections, twelve non-fiction works, and collections of essays and poetry. She has faced criticism for alleged antisemitism and for her endorsement of the conspiracist David Icke.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP] Alice Sebold  Alice Sebold (born September 6, 1963) is an American author. She is known for her novels "The Lovely Bones" and "The Almost Moon", and a memoir, "Lucky". "The Lovely Bones" was on "The New York Times" Best Seller list and was adapted into a film by the same name in 2010. Her memoir, "Lucky", sold over a million copies and describes her experience in her first year at Syracuse University, when she was raped. Anthony Broadwater, who was incorrectly identified as the perpetrator by Sebold (and via a faulty method of hair analysis), ultimately served 16 years in prison. He was exonerated in 2021, after a judge found serious issues with the original conviction.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP] Alice's Adventures in Wonderland  Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (commonly Alice in Wonderland) is an 1865 English novel by Lewis Carroll. It details the story of a young girl named Alice who falls through a rabbit hole into a fantasy world of anthropomorphic creatures. It is seen as an example of the literary nonsense genre. The artist John Tenniel provided 42 wood-engraved illustrations for the book.   It received positive reviews upon release and is now one of the best-known works of Victorian literature; its narrative, structure, characters and imagery have had widespread influence on popular culture and literature, especially in the fantasy genre.<ref name="Time"/><ref name="published"/> It is credited as helping end an era of didacticism in children's literature, inaugurating a new era in which writing for children aimed to "delight or entertain". The tale plays with logic, giving the story lasting popularity with adults as well as with children. The titular character Alice shares her given name with Alice Liddell, a girl Carroll knew.  The book has never been out of print and has been translated into 174 languages. Its legacy covers adaptations for screen, radio, art, ballet, opera, musicals, theme parks, board games and video games.<ref name="Alice industry"/> Carroll published a sequel in 1871 entitled "Through the Looking-Glass" and a shortened version for young children, "The Nursery "Alice"", in 1890.
Who is the author of Alice? [SEP] Alice Munro  Alice Ann Munro (; ; born 10 July 1931) is a Canadian short story writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 2013. Munro's work has been described as revolutionizing the architecture of short stories, especially in its tendency to move forward and backward in time. Her stories have been said to "embed more than announce, reveal more than parade."  Munro's fiction is most often set in her native Huron County in southwestern Ontario. Her stories explore human complexities in an uncomplicated prose style. Munro's writing has established her as "one of our greatest contemporary writers of fiction", or, as Cynthia Ozick put it, "our Chekhov." Munro has received many literary accolades, including the 2013 Nobel Prize in Literature for her work as "master of the contemporary short story",
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] Tagline: Don't trust your eyes, at all. Skin is a contemporary Christian fiction science fiction/horror novel released in April 2007 by Ted Dekker. Dekker's novel, Skin was published by Thomas Nelson with the purpose to connect the Circle Trilogy, the Project Showdown books, and an upcoming series of books.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP]  Don De Grazia is a professor of Fiction Writing at Columbia College in Chicago, and is the author of the novel American Skin. Prior to publishing his first novel, he worked as a factory worker, bouncer and soldier. He lives in Chicago. American Skin was originally published in the UK in 1998 by Jonathan Cape and in 1999 by Scribner.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP]  She was the author of the novels Skin and The Disappearance of Irene Dos Santos. Skin, a diasporic novel, moves from a bar in California to life in a Goan village, and has formed part of post-colonial academic discourse around the world since it was published by Penguin in 2001. Skin has been described as a "story of a contemporary woman who traces her cross-continental family diaspora which originates with the Portuguese slave trade in India in the 17th century." It has been translated into French and Portuguese. The Disappearance of Irene Dos Santos was selected for the Indie Next List and was a Barnes & Noble Discover Pick in 2009. Her poetry and sketch collection, Triage--casualties of love and sex was released in 2013.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP]   Skin and Other Stories is a collection of short stories written by Roald Dahl. It was published in 2000 by Puffin Books, a division of Penguin Putnam Books. Many of these stories first appeared in the Dahl book, Someone Like You, and also includes the story "The Surgeon", originally published in Playboy magazine in 1986.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP]  Skin Folk is a story collection by Jamaican-Canadian writer Nalo Hopkinson, published in 2001. Winner of the 2002 World Fantasy Award for Best Story Collection, it was also selected in 2002 for the New York Times Summer Reading List and was one of the New York Times Best Books of the Year.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] Skin (short story)  "Skin" is a macabre short story written by author Roald Dahl.  It was first published in the May 17, 1952 issue of "The New Yorker", and was later featured in the collections "Someone Like You", published in 1953, and "Skin and Other Stories", published in 2000. It was adapted for television as part of Anglia Television's "Tales of the Unexpected", broadcast on March 8, 1980.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] The Skin I'm In  The Skin I'm In is a realistic fiction novel written by Sharon G. Flake. It was published by Hyperion Books on January 3, 2000. It depicts the story of seventh-grader Maleeka Madison who has low self-esteem because of her dark brown skin color. The novel's themes include self-love, self-esteem, the power of friendship, bullying and body image. The anniversary edition was released in October 2018.  In 2021, Sharon Flake published a sister novel, "The Life I'm In", following the character Charlese Jones.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] Black Skin, White Masks  Black Skin, White Masks () is a 1952 book by philosopher Frantz Fanon. The book is written in the style of autoethnography, in which Fanon shares his own experiences while presenting a historical critique of the effects of racism and dehumanization, inherent in situations of colonial domination, on the human psyche. There is a double process that is economic and internalized through the epidermalization of inferiority.  The violent overtones in Fanon can be broken down into two categories: The violence of the colonizer through annihilation of body, psyche, culture, along with the demarcation of space. And secondly the violence of the colonized as an attempt to retrieve dignity, sense of self, and history through anti-colonial struggle.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] Anthropodermic bibliopegy  Anthropodermic bibliopegy is the practice of binding books in human skin. , The Anthropodermic Book Project has examined 31 out of 50 books in public institutions supposed to have anthropodermic bindings, of which 18 have been confirmed as human and 13 have been demonstrated to be animal leather instead.
Who is the author of Skin? [SEP] Skin in the Game (book)  Skin in the Game: Hidden Asymmetries in Daily Life (acronymed: SITG) is a 2018 nonfiction book by Nassim Nicholas Taleb, a former options trader with a background in the mathematics of probability and statistics.  Taleb's thesis is that skin in the game—i.e., having a measurable risk when taking a major decision—is necessary for fairness, commercial efficiency, and risk management, as well as being necessary to understand the world. The book is part of Taleb's multi-volume philosophical essay on uncertainty, titled the "Incerto", which also includes "Fooled by Randomness" (2001), "" (2007–2010), "The Bed of Procrustes" (2010–2016), and "Antifragile" (2012). The book is dedicated to "two men of courage": Ron Paul, "a Roman among Greeks"; and Ralph Nader, "Greco-Phoenician saint".
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP]  In 2009, Liu published Details of Democracy, a collection of essays originally written for her blog on the subject of American democracy. The book aspired to introduce the daily mechanisms of democracy to a Chinese audience, explaining processes such as the passing of bills and the practice of labour strikes from a relatable position of stories and anecdotes, rather than "abstract jargon". Details of Democracy became a bestseller and made Liu famous, gaining her a reputation as "China's de Tocqueville". It became a cornerstone of Chinese liberal thought, respected for its open support of democracy couched in "creative allusions, roundabout references, and ironic wit" to avoid
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP] SAGE Handbook of Political Science (ed. with Bertrand Badie and Leonardo Morlino), 3 vol., SAGE, London, 2020. ; Political Science – A Global Perspective (with Bertrand Badie and Leonardo Morlino), SAGE, London, 2017. ; Mixed Methods in Comparative Politics, Palgrave, 2012. ; International Encyclopedia of Political Science (ed. with Bertrand Badie and Leonardo Morlino), 8 vol., SAGE, Los Angeles, 2011. ; Aktuelle Methoden der Vergleichenden Politikwissenschaft (with Lasse Cronqvist), Barbara Budrich Publishers, Opladen, 2011. ; Democratization – The State of the Art (ed.), Barbara Budrich Publishers, Opladen & Farmington Hills, 2nd ed., 2007. ; Poverty and Democracy (with Norbert Kersting), ZED Books, London, 2003. ; Vergleichende Politikwissenschaft,
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP]  Bill Kauffman has called Bryan's book Real Democracy "the definitive work on town meeting," and has written that: Bryan was a legendary character at the University of Vermont, where he taught political science: he is the horny-handed son of toil who does regression analysis, the regular-guy intellectual who prefers the company of “working-class people ... the old Vermonters.” The irrepressible Bryan has made a major contribution to his field (and his country, which is Vermont) with Real Democracy (University of Chicago Press), his magnum opus, the most searching and sympathetic book ever written about the town-meeting democracy of New England. The book is a veritable four-leaf clover of academia: a witty work of political science written from a defiantly rural populist point of view. Some of his other books include All Those In Favor: Rediscovering the Secrets of Town Meeting and Community, The Vermont Papers: Recreating Democracy on a Human Scale (with John McClaughry), ''OUT! The Vermont Secession Book (with Bill Mares), and Real Vermonters Don't Milk Goats''.
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP]  of after reading an article about Sautet while teaching in the Mississippi Delta. In his penultimate book "Constitution Café", Phillips details a journey across the US promoting discussions with a version of the Socratic Method that he developed for the Socrates Cafés, combined with the Jeffersonian idea of democratic freedom and inclusiveness. He has since worked on the Declaration Project, a comprehensive collection of declarations of independence, causes, rights, and principles from across the ages and continents, as well as the Constitutional Cafe and the Democracy Cafe initiatives that discuss constitutional changes in the United States. Phillips also founded a for-profit consulting service, Socrates Group.
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP]  Daniel Ziblatt (born 1972) is an American political scientist and a professor at Harvard University with a research focus on comparative politics, democracy and democratization as well as the politics and political history of Western Europe. Since 2018 he has been Eaton Professor of the Science of Government at Harvard University. He is the author of the book Conservative Parties and the Birth of Democracy. In 2018, Ziblatt also published How Democracies Die with fellow Harvard professor Steven Levitsky. The book examines the conditions that can lead democracies to break down from within, rather than due to external events such as military coups or foreign invasions. How Democracies Die received widespread praise. It spent a number of weeks on The New York Times Best Seller list and six weeks on the non-fiction bestseller list of the German weekly Der Spiegel. The book was recognized as one of the best nonfiction books of 2018 by The Washington Post, Time, and Foreign Affairs.
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP] Deliberative democracy  Deliberative democracy or discursive democracy is a form of democracy in which deliberation is central to decision-making. It adopts elements of both consensus decision-making and majority rule. Deliberative democracy differs from traditional democratic theory in that authentic deliberation, not mere voting, is the primary source of legitimacy for the law. Deliberative democracy is closely related to consultative democracy, in which public consultation with citizens is central to democratic processes.   While deliberative democracy is generally seen as some form of an amalgam of representative democracy and direct democracy, the actual relationship is usually open to dispute. Some practitioners and theorists use the term to encompass representative bodies whose members authentically and practically deliberate on legislation without unequal distributions of power, while others use the term exclusively to refer to decision-making directly by lay citizens, as in direct democracy.  The term "deliberative democracy" was originally coined by Joseph M. Bessette in his 1980 work "Deliberative Democracy: The Majority Principle in Republican Government".
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP] John Dewey  John Dewey (; October 20, 1859 – June 1, 1952) was an American philosopher, psychologist, and educational reformer whose ideas have been influential in education and social reform. He was one of the most prominent American scholars in the first half of the twentieth century.  The overriding theme of Dewey's works was his profound belief in democracy, be it in politics, education, or communication and journalism. As Dewey himself stated in 1888, while still at the University of Michigan, "Democracy and the one, ultimate, ethical ideal of humanity are to my mind synonymous." Dewey considered two fundamental elements—schools and civil society—to be major topics needing attention and reconstruction to encourage experimental intelligence and plurality. He asserted that complete democracy was to be obtained not just by extending voting rights but also by ensuring that there exists a fully formed public opinion, accomplished by communication among citizens, experts and politicians, with the latter being accountable for the policies they adopt.  Dewey was one of the primary figures associated with the philosophy of pragmatism and is considered one of the fathers of functional psychology. His paper "The Reflex Arc Concept in Psychology," published in 1896, is regarded as the first major work in the (Chicago) functionalist school of psychology. A "Review of General Psychology" survey, published in 2002, ranked Dewey as the 93rd-most-cited psychologist of the 20th century.  Dewey was also a major educational reformer for the 20th century. While a professor at the University of Chicago, he founded the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools, where he was able to apply and test his progressive ideas on pedagogical method. Although Dewey is known best for his publications about education, he also wrote about many other topics, including epistemology, metaphysics, aesthetics, art, logic, social theory, and ethics.
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP] Participatory democracy  Participatory democracy, participant democracy or participative democracy is a form of government in which citizens participate individually and directly in political decisions and policies that affect their lives, rather than through elected representatives. Elements of direct and representative democracy are combined in this model.
Who is the author of The Techniques of Democracy? [SEP] Laboratories of democracy  Laboratories of democracy is a phrase popularized by U.S. Supreme Court Justice Louis Brandeis in "New State Ice Co. v. Liebmann" to describe how "a single courageous State may, if its citizens choose, serve as a laboratory; and try novel social and economic experiments without risk to the rest of the country." Brandeis was an associate justice of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1916 to 1939.  This concept explains how within the federal framework, there exists a system of state autonomy where state and local governments act as social laboratories, where laws and policies are created and tested at the state level of the democratic system, in a manner similar (in theory, at least) to the scientific method. An example today would be the legalization of marijuana in Colorado despite the fact that it is illegal federally.  The Tenth Amendment of the United States Constitution provides that "all powers not delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people." This is a basis for the "laboratories of democracy" concept, because the Tenth Amendment assigns most day-to-day governance responsibilities, including general police power, to the state and local governments. Because there are 50 semi-autonomous states, different policies can be enacted and tested at the state level without directly affecting the entire country. As a result, a diverse patchwork of state-level government practices is created. If any one or more of those policies are successful, they can be expanded to the national level by acts of Congress. For example, the Massachusetts legislature established a health care reform law in 2006 that became the model for the subsequent Affordable Care Act at the national level in 2010, or the various concealed carry state reciprocity agreements that motivated the subsequent proposed federal Concealed Carry Reciprocity Act of 2017.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP]  Death in Five Boxes is a mystery novel by the American writer John Dickson Carr, who published it under the name of Carter Dickson. It is a whodunnit and features the series detective Sir Henry Merrivale and his associate, Scotland Yard's Chief Inspector Humphrey Masters.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP]  According to Jacques Barzun and Wendell Hertig Taylor, "As usual, Carter Dickson's plot is extremely complicated and it depends on a variety of gimmicks, most of which are barely plausible. One good one is the method of poisoning the White Lady cocktails without anybody's going near the shaker or the glasses.  For the rest, the dialogue is in the worst style of false excitement and byplay, particularly the part allotted to the egregious Sir Henry Merrivale, who calls everybody "son" and yells "shut up" whenever he is stumped.  The early portion is dull, the middle chaotic, and the end interminable."
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP]  Dr. John Sanders, a serious young forensic scientist, is stopped by a pretty young girl late at night. Marcia Blystone asks him to accompany her to the top floor of a four-story building, to the apartment of Mr. Felix Haye, because she is afraid to go up alone. Before they reach the apartment, he finds an umbrella-swordstick with bloodstains on it, and they are immediately stopped by a clerk from the Anglo-Egyptian Importing Co. Ltd., one floor below Mr. Haye's flat. He mentions grumpily that Haye and his guests have been laughing uproariously and stomping their feet on the floor. When the couple finally enters Haye's flat, they find the host
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP]  all of them, yet someone has managed to poison them. Chief Inspector Masters brings in Sir Henry Merrivale to investigate the bizarre circumstances. At the offices of Charles Drake, Haye's lawyer, they find the evidence of five small boxes, all empty. They are each labeled with a name—the three guests, the clerk, and someone named "Judith Adams", who turns out to be a deceased author who wrote a book on legendary dragons. It takes all Sir Henry's ingenuity to work out the tangle of relationships and motives and reveal not only who stabbed Felix Haye, but also poisoned the cocktails and how—and why Judith Adams is the key to it all.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP]  The Wrong Box is a black comedy novel co-written by Robert Louis Stevenson and Lloyd Osbourne, first published in 1889. The story is about two brothers who are the last two surviving members of a tontine. The book was the first of three novels that Stevenson co-wrote with Osbourne, who was his stepson. The others were The Wrecker (1892) and The Ebb-Tide (1894). Osbourne wrote the first draft of the novel late in 1887 (then called The Finsbury Tontine), Stevenson revised it in 1888 (then called A Game of Bluff) and again in 1889 when it was finally called The Wrong Box. A film adaptation, also titled The Wrong Box, was released in 1966, and a musical in 2002.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP] Death in Five Boxes  Death in Five Boxes is a mystery novel by the American writer John Dickson Carr, who published it under the name of Carter Dickson. It is a whodunnit and features the series detective Sir Henry Merrivale and his associate, Scotland Yard's Chief Inspector Humphrey Masters.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP] 1938 in literature  This article contains information about the literary events and publications of 1938.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP] Pandora's box  Pandora's box is an artifact in Greek mythology connected with the myth of Pandora in Hesiod's c. 700 B.C. poem "Works and Days". Hesiod reported that curiosity led her to open a container left in the care of her husband, thus releasing physical and emotional curses upon mankind. Later depictions of the story have been varied, while some literary and artistic treatments have focused more on the contents than on Pandora herself.  The container mentioned in the original account was actually a large storage jar, but the word was later mistranslated. In modern times an idiom has grown from the story meaning "Any source of great and unexpected troubles", or alternatively "A present which seems valuable but which in reality is a curse".
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP] Drop to His Death  Drop To His Death (also published under the title "Fatal Descent") is a mystery novel by the American writer John Dickson Carr, who published it under the name of Carter Dickson, in collaboration with John Rhode. It is a locked room mystery.
Who is the author of Death in Five Boxes? [SEP] Carl McCunn  Carl McCunn (January 25, 1947 – December 18, 1981) was an American wildlife photographer who became stranded in the Alaskan wilderness and eventually died by suicide when he ran out of supplies.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP]  The Wizard in the Wonderland is the 1991 sequel to The Wizard In the Woods and the second book in the wizard trilogy by Jean Ure.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP]  & Winston, 1985) ; Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland by Lewis Carroll (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1985) ; A Child's Book of Prayers (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1985) ; The Legend of the Veery Bird by Kathleen Hague (Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, 1985) ; Numbears: A Counting Book by Kathleen Hague (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1986) ; Out of the Nursery, into the Night by Kathleen Hague (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1986) ; Enchanted World Series ; Seekers and Saviors (1986), vol. 12 ; Fabled Lands (1986), vol. 13 ; Michael Hague's World of Unicorns (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1986), revised as Michael Hague's Magical World of Unicorns
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP]  make Stephen King’s pages turn.” Kirkus Reviews also praised the book: “Invoking a battery of analogues favoring the pop-culture heroines of Alice in Wonderland, The Wizard of Oz, Lolita, and Halloween, Mendelsohn isolates her plucky heroine so fearfully via sparse paragraphs and an underpeopled world that even the most preposterous threats leap out of the move frame to fuel a shriek of pure paranoia. Must reading for anybody who thinks teenagers today have gotten bloated with entitlement: a scarlet will-o’-the-wisp fantasy in which adults and adulthood aren’t stupid stiffs but agents of unimaginable evil.” American Music, published in 2010, tells the story
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP]  John Bull's Adventures in the Fiscal Wonderland is a novel by Charles Geake and Francis Carruthers Gould, written in 1904 and published by Methuen & Co. of London. It is a political parody of Lewis Carroll's two books, Alice's Adventures in Wonderland (1865) and Through the Looking-Glass (1871). The book features 48 drawings after the originals by John Tenniel which were drawn by Francis Carruthers Gould. It is critical of the economic politics of the day, which John Bull tries to make sense of. A number of notable British politicians are identified in the book. Joseph Chamberlain is the Prefferwense, the Mad Hatter, the Cheshire Cat, and the Knave of Hearts; Arthur Balfour is the March Hare and Humpy Dumpy; the Earl of Rosebery is Tweedle-R., Henry Campbell-Bannerman is Twee-C.-B., Jesse Collings is the White Rabbit, and the Duke of Devonshire is the Dormouse.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP]  unfinished manuscript to Macmillan the publisher, who liked it immediately. After the possible alternative titles were rejected – Alice Among the Fairies and Alice's Golden Hour – the work was finally published as Alice's Adventures in Wonderland in 1865 under the Lewis Carroll pen-name, which Dodgson had first used some nine years earlier. The illustrations this time were by Sir John Tenniel; Dodgson evidently thought that a published book would need the skills of a professional artist. Annotated versions provide insights into many of the ideas and hidden meanings that are prevalent in these books. Critical literature has often proposed Freudian interpretations of the book as "a descent into the dark world of the
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP] The Wonderful Wizard of Oz  The Wonderful Wizard of Oz is a children's novel written by author L. Frank Baum and illustrated by W. W. Denslow. It is the first novel in the Oz series of books. A Kansas farm girl named Dorothy ends up in the magical Land of Oz after she and her pet dog Toto are swept away from their home by a tornado. Upon her arrival in Oz, she learns she cannot return home until she has destroyed the Wicked Witch of the West.  The book was first published in the United States in May 1900 by the George M. Hill Company. In January 1901, the publishing company completed printing the first edition, a total of 10,000 copies, which quickly sold out. It had sold three million copies by the time it entered the public domain in 1956. It was often reprinted under the title The Wizard of Oz, which is the title of the successful 1902 Broadway musical adaptation as well as the classic 1939 live-action film.  The ground-breaking success of both the original 1900 novel and the 1902 Broadway musical prompted Baum to write thirteen additional Oz books which serve as official sequels to the first story. Over a century later, the book is one of the best-known stories in American literature, and the Library of Congress has declared the work to be "America's greatest and best-loved homegrown fairytale."
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP] The Wizard in Wonderland  The Wizard in the Wonderland is the 1991 sequel to "The Wizard In the Woods" and the second book in the wizard trilogy by Jean Ure.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP] Yellow brick road  The yellow brick road is a fictional element in the 1900 children's novel "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" by American author L. Frank Baum. The road also appears in the several sequel Oz books such as "The Marvelous Land of Oz" (1904) and "The Patchwork Girl of Oz" (1913).  The road's most notable portrayal is in the classic 1939 MGM musical film "The Wizard of Oz", loosely based on Baum's first Oz book. In the novel's first edition the road is mostly referred to as the "Road of Yellow Bricks". In the original story and in later films based on it such as "The Wiz" (1978), Dorothy Gale must find the road before embarking on her journey, as the tornado did not deposit her farmhouse directly in front of it as in the 1939 film.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP] Tin Woodman  Nick Chopper, the Tin Woodman, also known as the Tin Man or—mistakenly—the "Tin Woodsman," is a character in the fictional Land of Oz created by American author L. Frank Baum. Baum's Tin Woodman first appeared in his classic 1900 book "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" and reappeared in many other subsequent Oz books in the series. In late 19th-century America, men made out of various tin pieces were used in advertising and political cartoons. Baum, who was editing a magazine on decorating shop windows when he wrote "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz", was reportedly inspired to invent the Tin Woodman by a figure he had built out of metal parts for a shop display.
Who is the author of The Wizard in Wonderland? [SEP] Political interpretations of The Wonderful Wizard of Oz  Political interpretations of "The Wonderful Wizard of Oz" include treatments of the modern fairy tale (written by L. Frank Baum and first published in 1900) as an allegory or metaphor for the political, economic, and social events of America in the 1890s. Scholars have examined four quite different versions of Oz: the novel of 1900, the Broadway play of 1902, the Hollywood film of 1939, and the numerous follow-up Oz novels written after 1900 by Baum and others.  The political interpretations focus on the first three, and emphasize the close relationship between the visual images and the story line to the political interests of the day. Biographers report that Baum had been a political activist in the 1890s with a special interest in the money question of gold and silver (bimetallism), and the illustrator William Wallace Denslow was a full-time editorial cartoonist for a major daily newspaper. For the 1902 Broadway production Baum inserted explicit references to prominent political characters such as President Theodore Roosevelt.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]  Transcension was first published in the United States on 19 February 2002 by Tor Books in hardback format. In March 2003 it was republished in paperback format. Transcension won the 2002 Aurealis Award for best science fiction novel and was a short-list nominee for the 2003 Ditmar Award for best Australian novel but lost to Sean Williams' and Shane Dix's Echoes of Earth.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]  Transcension is a 2002 science fiction novel by Damien Broderick. It follows the story of lawyer Mohammed Kasim Abdel-Malik who after being killed his body is placed in cryonic suspension his mind is used as a source for an artificial intelligence, Aleph.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]  Emma Lee Benedict (after marriage, E. L. B. Transeau; November 16, 1857 – February 3, 1937) was an American magazine editor, educator, and the author of several books of prose and poetry. She was a pleasant, logical and forcible speaker and writer in her special line of educational and scientific topics, particularly third-wave temperance, and was in frequent demand as an instructor at teachers' institutes.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]  ends up writing the novel in which he appears. Loving Reading: Erotics of the Text (1985) is a study in reader theory that explores the analogy between reading and making love. In two books, The Translingual Imagination (2000) - which Peter Bush in the Times Literary Supplement called “a passionately eloquent narrative of a new translingual world behind the English Curtain" - and Switching Languages: Translingual Writers Reflect on Their Craft (2003), Kellman surveyed the phenomenon of writers who write in more than one language or in a language other than their primary one. He provided further reflections on literary translingualism in Nimble Tongues (2020). His biography of the author of
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]  a Romanian and Latin American Jew. However, its publication was delayed by a dispute about the book's principal authorship and status as a novel or autobiography. Isacovici asserted that the book was his memoir, and that he had hired Rodriguez to improve the Spanish text. Rodriguez threatened legal action, stating that the book was fictionalized, incorporated some of his own memories, and argued he was the main author and should be credited as such. The controversy has been critiqued as an example of literary usurpation and as an attempt to cast doubt on a Holocaust survivor's experience. The English translation was published in 1999 with Isacovici and Rodriguez listed as co-authors.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP] The Singularity Is Near  The Singularity Is Near: When Humans Transcend Biology is a 2005 non-fiction book about artificial intelligence and the future of humanity by inventor and futurist Ray Kurzweil.  The book builds on the ideas introduced in Kurzweil's previous books, "The Age of Intelligent Machines" (1990) and "The Age of Spiritual Machines" (1999). This time, however, Kurzweil embraces the term "the Singularity", which was popularized by Vernor Vinge in his 1993 essay "The Coming Technological Singularity."  Kurzweil describes his law of accelerating returns which predicts an exponential increase in technologies like computers, genetics, nanotechnology, robotics and artificial intelligence. Once the Singularity has been reached, Kurzweil says that machine intelligence will be infinitely more powerful than all human intelligence combined. Afterwards he predicts intelligence will radiate outward from the planet until it saturates the universe. The Singularity is also the point at which machines' intelligence and humans would merge. Kurzweil spells out the date very clearly: "I set the date for the Singularity—representing a profound and disruptive transformation in human capability—as 2045".
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP] Transcension (novel)  Transcension is a 2002 science fiction novel by Damien Broderick. It follows the story of lawyer Mohammed Kasim Abdel-Malik who after being killed his body is placed in cryonic suspension his mind is used as a source for an artificial intelligence, Aleph.
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]
Who is the author of Transcension? [SEP]
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP]  His newest book and his first in fifteen years, What Men Still Don't Know About Women, Relationships, and Love, synthesizes the major points that he wrote about in his seven previous books, as he explores contemporary issues that confront men in their relationships with women and family. While originally seen as an author of men’s books, his writing has also become popular among women. His last two books, What Men Really Want and Men’s Secrets solidified a base of female readers that had previously embraced The Hazards of Being Male and The New Male-Female Relationship. His first book, Creative Aggression, co-authored with Dr. George R. Bach, became a national best-seller and
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP]  Weingarten cowrote a series of humor columns in The Washington Post with feminist writer Gina Barreca about the differences between men and women. These became the basis of the 2004 book she and Weingarten collaborated on called ''I'm with Stupid: One Man. One Woman. 10,000 Years Of Misunderstandings Between The Sexes Cleared Right Up.'' The two wrote for over two years via email and on the phone without having met in person. They eventually met for the first time while doing publicity for the book. The book is illustrated by cartoonist Richard Thompson.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP]  book. The result was Woman to Woman (1974), her non-fiction account of the emergence of the European feminist movement. Bluh was the first American feminist to meet with the feminists of Ireland, England, the Netherlands, France, Italy and Spain. When her agent was unable to get the book published because it was considered too personal and too angry, Bluh founded Starogubski Press and published the book herself. Woman to Woman is considered a "landmark account of the second wave of feminism", a book that has been used in the classrooms of over 60 colleges. Her next book, was the novel, Banana (1976). The publisher, Macmillan, promoted
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP]  In 1962, aspiring author Barbara Novak arrives in New York to submit her book, Down with Love to Banner House publishing. It is about freeing women from love, enjoying sex without commitment, and replacing the need for a man with things such as chocolate. Barbara believes her rules will help boost women in the workplace and the world in general. When Banner House's male executives reject the book, Vikki Hiller, Barbara's editor, suggests Barbara meet with Catcher Block – a successful writer for Know magazine and a notorious ladies' man – to help promote the book. However, Catcher repeatedly avoids meeting
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP]  Sposato is also the author of Better Together: 8 Ways Working with Women Leads to Extraordinary Products and Profit.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP] Louisa May Alcott  Louisa May Alcott (; November 29, 1832March 6, 1888) was an American novelist, short story writer, and poet best known as the author of the novel "Little Women" (1868) and its sequels "Little Men" (1871) and "Jo's Boys" (1886). Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Henry David Thoreau, and Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.  Alcott's family suffered from financial difficulties, and while she worked to help support the family from an early age, she also sought an outlet in writing. She began to receive critical success for her writing in the 1860s. Early in her career, she sometimes used pen names such as A. M. Barnard, under which she wrote lurid short stories and sensation novels for adults that focused on passion and revenge.  Published in 1868, "Little Women" is set in the Alcott family home, Orchard House, in Concord, Massachusetts, and is loosely based on Alcott's childhood experiences with her three sisters, Abigail May Alcott Nieriker, Elizabeth Sewall Alcott, and Anna Alcott Pratt. The novel was well-received at the time and is still popular today among both children and adults. It has been adapted many times to stage, film, and television.  Alcott was an abolitionist and a feminist and remained unmarried throughout her life. All her life she was active in such reform movements as temperance and women's suffrage. She died from a stroke two days after her father, in Boston on March 6, 1888.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP] Little Women  Little Women is a coming-of-age novel written by American novelist Louisa May Alcott (1832–1888).  Alcott wrote the book, originally published in two volumes in 1868 and 1869, at the request of her publisher. The story follows the lives of the four March sisters—Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy—and details their passage from childhood to womanhood. Loosely based on the lives of the author and her three sisters,  "Little Women" was an immediate commercial and critical success, with readers eager for more about the characters. Alcott quickly completed a second volume (titled "Good Wives" in the United Kingdom, though the name originated with the publisher and not Alcott). It was also met with success. The two volumes were issued in 1880 as a single novel titled "Little Women". Alcott subsequently wrote two sequels to her popular work, both also featuring the March sisters: "Little Men" (1871) and "Jo's Boys" (1886).   The novel has been said to address three major themes: "domesticity, work, and true love, all of them interdependent and each necessary to the achievement of its heroine's individual identity." According to Sarah Elbert, Alcott created a new form of literature, one that took elements from romantic children's fiction and combined it with others from sentimental novels, resulting in a totally new genre. Elbert argues that within "Little Women" can be found the first vision of the "All-American girl" and that her various aspects are embodied in the differing March sisters.<ref name="Elbert" />  The book has been translated into numerous languages, and frequently adapted for stage and screen.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP] Women Talking (novel)  Women Talking is a 2018 novel by Canadian writer Miriam Toews. The story follows eight Mennonite women who conduct a secret meeting in a hayloft to discuss their options after learning that they have been repeatedly drugged and raped by men in their colony. The novel, Toews' seventh, is loosely based on real-life events that occurred at the Manitoba Colony in Bolivia.   The novel was shortlisted for the Governor General's Award and the Trillium Book Award. It has been adapted into a film of the same name written and directed by Sarah Polley, released in late 2022.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP] The Woman in White (novel)  The Woman in White is Wilkie Collins's fifth published novel, written in 1859 and set from 1849 to 1850. It is a mystery novel and falls under the genre of "sensation novels".  The story can be seen as an early example of detective fiction with protagonist Walter Hartright employing many of the sleuthing techniques of later private detectives. The use of multiple narrators (including nearly all the principal characters) draws on Collins's legal training, and as he points out in his preamble: "the story here presented will be told by more than one pen, as the story of an offence against the laws is told in Court by more than one witness". Collins also drew on memories of his father, the artist William Collins, in the creation of drawing master Walter Hartright, and populates his story with a number of Italian characters, likely inspired by two years spent in Italy during childhood.  In 2003, Robert McCrum writing for "The Observer" listed "The Woman in White" number 23 in "the top 100 greatest novels of all time", and the novel was listed at number 77 on the BBC's survey The Big Read.
Who is the author of With Women? [SEP] William Moulton Marston  William Moulton Marston (May 9, 1893 – May 2, 1947), also known by the pen name Charles Moulton (), was an American psychologist who, with his wife Elizabeth Holloway, invented an early prototype of the lie detector. He was also known as a self-help author and comic book writer who created the character Wonder Woman.<ref name="NYT-20141023"/>  Two women, his wife Elizabeth Holloway Marston, and their polyamorous life partner, Olive Byrne, greatly influenced Wonder Woman's creation.  He was inducted into the Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2006.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]  "Come On Over" is a Grammy award winning song co-written and recorded by Canadian country music singer Shania Twain. It was the tenth single and title track from her third studio album Come On Over (1997). It was written by Twain and her then-husband, Robert John "Mutt" Lange. "Come On Over" was originally released to North American country radio stations in September 1999. The song went on to win a Grammy Award for Best Country Song in 2000. "Come On Over" was included in the setlists of the Come On Over Tour, Now Tour and in a medley for the Up! Tour; it was also performed at the CMAs on September 29, 1999. The song was later included in Twain's 2004 Greatest Hits album.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]  "Come on Over" is a song written by Deborah Andrews, Martin Harrington, and Ash Howes for former Hear'Say member Kym Marsh's debut album, Standing Tall (2003). It was released as second solo single on 7 July 2003 in the United Kingdom and peaked number 10 on the UK Singles Chart.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]  After the release of her 2006 pop album A Public Affair, Simpson stated she wanted to go back to her roots and do country music because she "has been brought up around country music", and wants to give something back. Simpson had already sung country themed songs previous like "These Boots Are Made for Walkin'". "Come on Over" was co-written by country music artist Rachel Proctor, Victoria Banks and Simpson herself. The lyrics of the uptempo single focus on the narrator's paramour. Simpson said, "The fun thing about the song is that anxiety of wanting the guy to come over right then and there. Everybody's felt that before."
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]  Come on Over is a 1922 American comedy silent black and white film directed by Alfred E. Green and based on the stage musical by Rupert Hughes. It stars Colleen Moore. Its release beat The Wall Flower to the theaters and it was well received.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]  publishing. The theme of human intimacy is central in the novels The Pink Triangle (2010) and Come out, come out, wherever you are (2011). Both books underline the author´s distinctive sense of humour, provocative sexuality and dynamic narration. Literary theorist Alexander Halvoník writes in a study of the book Flew Over the Flying Birds (2013): "I think that something like author program actually exists. Author wears it in yourself and it does not hang anyone on the nose, but despite the fact that because of their complexity difficult to implement, insists on it even if, say, does not write any book."
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP] Come On Over (Olivia Newton-John album)  Come On Over is the seventh studio album by British-Australian singer Olivia Newton-John, released on 29 February 1976. The album peaked at number two on the US Top Country Albums chart and number 13 on the US "Billboard" 200.  The lead single released from the album was the title song, written by Barry Gibb and Robin Gibb and originally featured on the Bee Gees' 1975 album "Main Course". It was a moderate pop hit, peaking at number 23 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100, but did much better on the country (number 5) and adult contemporary (seventh of ten number 1 singles) charts. In New Zealand, the title track reached number 3.  The album's first track, a cover of Dolly Parton's "Jolene", was only released as a single in Japan, and it became a hit there, peaking at number 11 on the Oricon Singles Chart. The album itself was also a success in the Japanese market, reaching the number two position on the Oricon Albums Chart. It was released in Australia in 1978 where it peaked at number 29.<ref name="auchart"/>  The album also included versions of the traditional song "Greensleeves" and The Beatles' "The Long and Winding Road" (the ending track), as well as "Who Are You Now?", originally featured in the 1973 movie "Hurry Up, or I'll Be 30". Besides Parton's "Jolene" the album also boasts covers of recent country hits by Willie Nelson ("Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain") and Lynn Anderson ("Smile For Me").
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP] Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You)  "Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You)" is a song recorded by American singer Christina Aguilera for her 1999 self-titled debut studio album. Released as the album's fourth and final single on July 11, 2000, by RCA Records, it was the first song over which Aguilera was given significant creative control. "Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You)" was written by Johan Åberg and Paul Rein, with Aguilera, Ron Fair, Chaka Blackmon, Raymond Cham, Eric Dawkins, Shelly Peiken and Guy Roche contributing to a re-recorded version. The album version of the song was produced by Aaron Zigman, Åberg and Rein, while the re-recorded version was produced by Fair and Celebrity Status.  Upon its release, "Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You)" achieved international commercial success and critical acclaim. In the United States, it became Aguilera's third number-one hit on the "Billboard" Hot 100. The single also reached top-ten positions in several countries including Australia and the United Kingdom, and reached number one in Venezuela and Guatemala. The accompanying music video for "Come On Over Baby (All I Want Is You)" saw Aguilera experiment with her image, beginning an evolution of reinventions seen in the ensuing years of her career.  A Spanish-language version of the song was adapted by Rudy Pérez titled "Ven Conmigo (Solamente Tú)" which was recorded for Aguilera's Spanish-language follow up album, "Mi Reflejo" (2000). "Ven Conmigo (Solamente Tú)" was released to Latin radio stations in the United States on August 8, 2000. It became a top ten hit in Spain, and a top five hit in El Salvador, Paraguay and Honduras.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP]
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP] Come On-a My House  "Come On-a My House" is a song performed by Rosemary Clooney and originally released in 1951. It was written by Ross Bagdasarian and his cousin, Armenian-American Pulitzer Prize-winning author William Saroyan, while driving across New Mexico in the summer of 1939. The melody is based on an Armenian folk song. The lyrics reference traditional Armenian customs of inviting over relatives and friends and providing them with a generously overflowing table of fruits, nuts, seeds, and other foods.  It was not performed until the 1950 off-Broadway production of "The Son". The song did not become a hit until the release of Clooney's recording. It was probably Saroyan's only effort at popular songwriting, and it was one of Bagdasarian's few well-known works that was not connected to his best-known creation, Alvin and the Chipmunks. Bagdasarian, as David Seville, went on to much fame with his Chipmunks recordings.
Who is the author of Come On Over? [SEP] Come On Eileen  "Come On Eileen" is a song by the English group Dexys Midnight Runners (credited to Dexys Midnight Runners and the Emerald Express), released in the United Kingdom in June 1982 as a single from their second studio album "Too-Rye-Ay". It reached number one in the United States and was their second number one hit in the UK, following 1980's "Geno". The song was produced by Clive Langer and Alan Winstanley and was initially claimed to be written by Kevin Rowland, Jim Paterson and Billy Adams, although Rowland later stated that the essence of the tune should be attributed to Kevin Archer.  "Come On Eileen" won Best British Single at the 1983 Brit Awards, and in 2015 the song was voted by the British public as the nation's sixth favourite 1980s number one single in a poll for ITV. It was ranked number eighteen on VH1's "100 Greatest Songs of the '80s"
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP]  edited by Nicholas Coles and Peter Oresick, both of the University of Pittsburgh. It is a companion volume to their critically acclaimed Working Classics: Poems on Industrial Life, an anthology of blue-collar work poetry. For a Living remains in print since its first publication in 1995 by the University of Illinois Press. ""[This] new anthology. . . challenges the view that work is a less provocative subject than nature, spirituality or even love. . . . For a Living liberates the voices of those we work alongside every day without perhaps really hearing them."" - Carol Hymowitz, The Wall Street Journal
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP]  Ai · Maggie Anderson · John Ashbery · Dorothy Barresi · Jan Beatty · Wanda Coleman · Jim Daniels · Toi Derricotte · Cornelius Eady · Martín Espada · Alice Fulton · Tess Gallagher · Dana Gioia · Albert Goldbarth · Judy Grahn · Edward Hirsch · David Ignatow · Denis Johnson · Lawrence Joseph · Maxine Hong Kingston · Susan Kinsolving · Ted Kooser · Brad Leithauser · Philip Levine · Thomas Lynch · Campbell McGrath · Joyce Carol Oates · Ed Ochester · Sharon Olds · Alicia Ostriker · Louis Simpson · Michelle Tokarczyk · John Updike · Judith Vollmer · Tom Wayman · C. K. Williams
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP]  Staying Alive: A Writer's Guide is a book by Norman Spinrad published in 1983.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP]  The novel is dedicated to one of Highsmith's college teachers, Ethel Sturtevant, "my friend and teacher", along with Dorothy Hargreaves and Mary McCurdy.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP]  For Us, The Living: A Comedy of Customs is a science fiction novel by American writer Robert A. Heinlein. It was written in 1938 and published for the first time in 2003. Heinlein admirer and science fiction author Spider Robinson titled his introductory essay "RAH DNA", as he believes this first, unpublished novel formed the DNA of Heinlein's later works. The novel's manuscript was lost until biographer Robert James traced down references to it. His research led to its rediscovery in a box left in a garage. Heinlein had apparently sent it to an earlier biographer, Leon Stover.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP] Living (novel)  Living is a 1929 novel by English writer Henry Green. It is a work of sharp social observation, documenting the lives of Birmingham factory workers in the interwar boom years. It is considered a modern classic by scholars, and appears on many university syllabi. The language is notable for its deliberate lack of conjunctives to reflect a Birmingham accent. As well, very few articles are used, allegedly to mimic foreign languages (such as Arabic) that use them infrequently. It is considered a work of Modernist literature.  The novel has been acclaimed for making Green "an honorary member of a literary movement to which he never belonged", i.e. the genre of proletarian literature. Despite his class origin and politics, the novel has been acclaimed as "closer to the world of the working class than those of some socialist or worker-writers themselves".<ref name ="Ortega"/>
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP] Kazuo Ishiguro  Sir Kazuo Ishiguro ( ; born 8 November 1954) is a British novelist, screenwriter, musician, and short-story writer. Ishiguro was born in Nagasaki, Japan, and moved to Britain in 1960 with his parents when he was five.  He is one of the most critically-acclaimed and praised contemporary fiction authors writing in English, being awarded the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature. In its 2017 citation, the Swedish Academy described Ishiguro as a writer "who, in novels of great emotional force, has uncovered the abyss beneath our illusory sense of connection with the world".  His first two novels, "A Pale View of Hills" and "An Artist of the Floating World", were noted for their explorations of Japanese identity and their mournful tone. He thereafter explored other genres, including science fiction and historical fiction. He has been nominated for the Booker Prize four times, winning the prize in 1989 for his novel "The Remains of the Day", which was adapted into a film of the same name in 1993. Salman Rushdie praised the novel as Ishiguro's masterpiece, in which he "turned away from the Japanese settings of his first two novels and revealed that his sensibility was not rooted in any one place, but capable of travel and metamorphosis". "Time" named Ishiguro's science fiction novel "Never Let Me Go" as the best novel of 2005 and one of the 100 best English-language novels published between 1923 and 2005.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP] Walden  Walden (; first published in 1854 as Walden; or, Life in the Woods) is a book by American transcendentalist writer Henry David Thoreau. The text is a reflection upon the author's simple living in natural surroundings. The work is part personal declaration of independence, social experiment, voyage of spiritual discovery, satire, and—to some degree—a manual for self-reliance.  "Walden" details Thoreau's experiences over the course of two years, two months, and two days in a cabin he built near Walden Pond amidst woodland owned by his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, near Concord, Massachusetts.  Thoreau makes precise scientific observations of nature as well as metaphorical and poetic uses of natural phenomena. He identifies many plants and animals by both their popular and scientific names, records in detail the color and clarity of different bodies of water, precisely dates and describes the freezing and thawing of the pond, and recounts his experiments to measure the depth and shape of the bottom of the supposedly "bottomless" Walden Pond.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP] Living History (book)  Living History is a 2003 memoir by Hillary Clinton. It was written when she was a sitting Senator from New York.
Who is the author of For a Living? [SEP] Kenneth N. Taylor  Kenneth Nathaniel Taylor (May 8, 1917 – June 10, 2005) was an American publisher and author, better known as the creator of "The Living Bible" and the founder of Tyndale House, a Christian publishing company, and Living Bibles International.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]   Martin Page (born 1975) is a French writer. He is the author of the bestselling novel, How I Became Stupid, which won the Euroregional schools’ literature prize, an award given by Belgian, Dutch and German students.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]  Martin Page (30 June 1938 - 10 September 2003) was a British writer and journalist who founded Business Traveler magazine.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]  Geoffrey Donald Page (born 7 July 1940) is an Australian poet, translator, teacher and jazz enthusiast. He has published 22 collections of poetry, as well as prose and verse novels. Poetry and jazz are his driving interests, and he has also written a biography of the jazz musician Bernie McGann. He organises poetry readings and jazz events in Canberra.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]  Patricia Kathleen Page, (23 November 1916 – 14 January 2010) was best known as a Canadian poet, though the citation as she was inducted as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada reads "poet, novelist, script writer, playwright, essayist, journalist, librettist, teacher and artist." She was the author of more than thirty published books that include poetry, fiction, travel diaries, essays, children's books, and an autobiography. As a visual artist, she exhibited her work as P.K. Irwin at a number of venues in Canada and abroad. Her works are in the permanent collections of the National Gallery of Canada, the Art Gallery of Ontario and the Burnaby Art Gallery. By special resolution of the United Nations, in 2001 Page's poem "Planet Earth" was read simultaneously in New York, the Antarctic, and the South Pacific to celebrate the International Year of Dialogue Among Civilizations.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]  Karen A. Page (born May 8, 1962, in Warren, Michigan) along with her husband Andrew Dornenburg, is a James Beard Award-winning author of a number of culinary-themed books. Among their books are Becoming a Chef (1995; 2003, 2nd ed.), Culinary Artistry (1996), Dining Out (1998), Chef's Night Out (2001), The New American Chef (2003), What to Drink With What You Eat (2006), The Flavor Bible (2008), The Food Lover's Guide to Wine (2011), and The Vegetarian Flavor Bible (2014). Page married Andrew Dornenburg in 1990; the couple lives in New York City.
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]
Who is the author of Page? [SEP]
Who is the author of Page? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of Page? [SEP] Article processing charge  An article processing charge (APC), also known as a publication fee, is a fee which is sometimes charged to authors. Most commonly, it is involved in making a work available as open access (OA), in either a full OA journal or in a hybrid journal. This fee may be paid by the author, the author's institution, or their research funder.  Sometimes, publication fees are also involved in traditional journals or for paywalled content. Some publishers waive the fee in cases of hardship or geographic location, but this is not a widespread practice. An article processing charge does not guarantee that the author retains copyright to the work, or that it will be made available under a Creative Commons license.
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP]  In 1963, he was the author of a controversial opinion that banned the sale in New York State of Tropic of Cancer, a novel by Henry Miller, on the ground that it was pornographic. Calling it "dirt for dirt's sake," he wrote that the book was "devoid of theme or idea" and that it contained "a constant repetition of patently offensive words used solely to convey debasing portrayals of natural and unnatural sexual experience." The United States Supreme Court later ruled that the book could not be banned. He was a delegate to the New York State Constitutional Convention of 1967. He retired from the Court of Appeals at the end of 1972 when he reached the
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP]  Dirt will be remembered not as a great novel, but as a key pivot-point for an industry that desperately needs to change." A group of Latino writers formed a movement in response to the publication and initial mainstream praise of American Dirt called "#DignidadLiteraria" (English: Literary Dignity). On February 3, 2020, the group met with Macmillan, the owner of Flatiron Books, to demand greater representation of Latinx writers under the publication house. Macmillan agreed to these terms. The group is also demanding "investigation into discriminatory practices in the publishing industry at large." USA Today's Barbara VanDenburgh called the book "problematic". She wrote, "American Dirt positions itself
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP]  editor and publisher. "Weisberg readily acknowledged that the industry is too white, and he said he and others are working hard to diversify his company. Einhorn said she loved American Dirt, but she took full responsibility for the clumsy and sometimes tasteless way the novel had been marketed." At the end of 2020, numerous news sources covered American Dirt in their end-of-year articles about publishing and the publishing industry. For example, it was listed as one of the "Biggest Literary Scandals of 2020" in a HuffPost article written by culture and literary critic Claire Fallon. And New York Magazine's Vulture referred to it as the "most controversial" book of the year.
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP]  Dirt is the second novel in the Stone Barrington series by Stuart Woods. It was first published in 1996 by HarperCollins. The novel takes place in New York, a few years after the events in New York Dead. The novel continues the story of Stone Barrington, a retired detective turned lawyer/private investigator
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP]  2020 novel, American Dirt, tells the story of a mother and bookstore owner in Acapulco, Mexico, who attempts to escape to the United States with her son after their family is killed by a drug cartel. In 2018 the book was sold to Flatiron after a three-day bidding war between nine publishers that resulted in a seven-figure deal. From 2018 until its publication in January 2020, the book was heavily marketed, receiving many positive reviews and the coveted book release day endorsement by Oprah Winfrey as the 83rd book chosen for Oprah's Book Club. However, approximately one month prior to release of the
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP] The Dirt  The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band () is a collaborative autobiography of Mötley Crüe by the band – Tommy Lee, Mick Mars, Vince Neil and Nikki Sixx – and "New York Times" writer Neil Strauss. First published in 2001, it chronicles the formation of the band, their rise to fame and their highs and lows.  Contributors include onetime member John Corabi, former band manager Doc McGhee, co-manager Doug Thaler, and A&R man Tom Zutaut.<ref name=":0" />  The book contains over 100 photographs, mostly black and white, with a 16-page color section in the middle of the book.  The first hardback edition was on the "New York Times" Bestseller list for four weeks and sold 13,000 copies in the UK.  The Crüe's 2008 album "Saints of Los Angeles" was inspired by the book.
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP] American Dirt  American Dirt is a 2020 novel by American author Jeanine Cummins, about the ordeal of a Mexican woman who had to leave behind her life and escape as an undocumented immigrant to the United States with her son.
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP] Jeanine Cummins  Jeanine Cummins (born December 6, 1974) She has written four books: a memoir titled "A Rip in Heaven" and three novels, "The Outside Boy," "The Crooked Branch", and "American Dirt."
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP] Growth of the Soil  Growth of the Soil (Norwegian Markens Grøde) is a novel by Knut Hamsun which won him the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1920. It follows the story of a man who settles and lives in rural Norway. First published in 1917, it has since been translated from Norwegian into languages such as English. The novel was written in the popular style of Norwegian new realism, a movement dominating the early 20th century. The novel exemplified Hamsun's aversion to modernity and inclination towards primitivism and the agrarian lifestyle. The novel employed literary techniques new to the time such as stream of consciousness. Hamsun tended to stress the relationship between his characters and the natural environment. Growth of the Soil portrays the protagonist (Isak) and his family as awed by modernity, yet at times, they come into conflict with it. The novel contains two sections entitled "Book One" and "Book Two". The first book focuses almost solely on the story of Isak and his family and the second book starts off by following the plight of Axel and ends mainly focusing on Isak's family.
Who is the author of Dirt? [SEP] Dirt Road Anthem  "Dirt Road Anthem" is a country rap song written and sung by American singers Colt Ford and Brantley Gilbert first (who also wrote Aldean's hit "My Kinda Party"), each of whom recorded his own version of the song. Jason Aldean covered the song for his 2010 album "My Kinda Party", and released it as the third single from the album in April 2011. The song debuted as a single as Aldean's previous single, "Don't You Wanna Stay", was at the number one spot on the "Billboard" Hot Country Songs chart. On November 30, the song received a nomination at the 54th Annual Grammy Awards for Best Country Solo Performance. It is the best-selling song in digital history by a male country solo artist in the United States with over four million sold.
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Editor Author Co-author
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Author Co-author
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Write With Fire, Borgo Press, 2009. ; Writing in Psychology, (With Y. Du Bois Irvin & Elliott Hammer), Borgo Press.
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Author Co-author
Who is the author of With? [SEP]  Rosenberg is co-editor with Laura Feder of the addiction textbook, Behavioral Addictions (2014), and he is the author of two trade books, Infidelity (2018) and Bedlam (2019), which was written with Jessica DuLong.
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Author  An author is the writer of a book, article, play, or other written work. A broader definition of the word "author" states:  ""An author is 'the person who originated or gave existence to anything" and whose authorship determines responsibility for what was created".'"  Typically, the first owner of a copyright is the person who created the work, i.e. the author. If more than one person created the work (i.e., multiple authors), then a case of joint authorship takes place. Copyright laws differ around the world. The United States Copyright Office, for example, defines copyright as "a form of protection provided by the laws of the United States (title 17, U.S. Code) to authors of 'original works of authorship.'"
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Roald Dahl  Roald Dahl (13 September 1916 – 23 November 1990) was a British novelist, short-story writer, poet, screenwriter, and wartime fighter ace of Norwegian descent. His books have sold more than 250 million copies worldwide. Dahl has been called "one of the greatest storytellers for children of the 20th century".<ref name=IND/>  Dahl was born in Wales to affluent Norwegian immigrant parents, and spent most of his life in England. He served in the Royal Air Force (RAF) during the Second World War. He became a fighter pilot and, subsequently, an intelligence officer, rising to the rank of acting wing commander. He rose to prominence as a writer in the 1940s with works for children and for adults, and he became one of the world's best-selling authors.  Dahl's short stories are known for their unexpected endings, and his children's books for their unsentimental, macabre, often darkly comic mood, featuring villainous adult enemies of the child characters.<ref name=INT/> His children's books champion the kindhearted and feature an underlying warm sentiment. His works for children include "James and the Giant Peach", "Charlie and the Chocolate Factory", "Matilda", "The Witches", "Fantastic Mr Fox", "The BFG", "The Twits", "George's Marvellous Medicine" and "Danny, the Champion of the World". His works for older audiences include the short story collections "Tales of the Unexpected" and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar and Six More".
Who is the author of With? [SEP] J. R. R. Tolkien  John Ronald Reuel Tolkien (, ; 3 January 1892 – 2 September 1973) was an English writer and philologist. He was the author of the high fantasy works "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings".  From 1925 to 1945, Tolkien was the Rawlinson and Bosworth Professor of Anglo-Saxon and a Fellow of Pembroke College, both at the University of Oxford. He then moved within the same university to become the Merton Professor of English Language and Literature and Fellow of Merton College, and held these positions from 1945 until his retirement in 1959. Tolkien was a close friend of C. S. Lewis, a co-member of the informal literary discussion group The Inklings. He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II on 28 March 1972.  After Tolkien's death, his son Christopher published a series of works based on his father's extensive notes and unpublished manuscripts, including "The Silmarillion". These, together with "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings", form a connected body of tales, poems, fictional histories, invented languages, and literary essays about a fantasy world called Arda and, within it, Middle-earth. Between 1951 and 1955, Tolkien applied the term "legendarium" to the larger part of these writings.  While many other authors had published works of fantasy before Tolkien, the great success of "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings" led directly to a popular resurgence of the genre. This has caused him to be popularly identified as the "father" of modern fantasy literature—or, more precisely, of high fantasy.
Who is the author of With? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of With? [SEP] Book of Revelation  The Book of Revelation is the final book of the New Testament (and consequently the final book of the Christian Bible). Its title is derived from the first word of the Koine Greek text: , meaning "unveiling" or "revelation". The Book of Revelation is the only apocalyptic book in the New Testament canon. It occupies a central place in Christian eschatology.  The author names himself as simply "John" in the text, but his precise identity remains a point of academic debate. Second-century Christian writers such as Papias of Hierapolis, Justin Martyr, Irenaeus, Melito of Sardis, Clement of Alexandria, and the author of the Muratorian fragment identify John the Apostle as the "John" of Revelation. Modern scholarship generally takes a different view, with many considering that nothing can be known about the author except that he was a Christian prophet. Modern theological scholars characterize the Book of Revelation's author as "John of Patmos". The bulk of traditional sources date the book to the reign of the Roman emperor Domitian (AD 81–96), which evidence tends to confirm.  The book spans three literary genres: the epistolary, the apocalyptic, and the prophetic. It begins with John, on the island of Patmos in the Aegean Sea, addressing a letter to the "Seven Churches of Asia". He then describes a series of prophetic visions, including figures such as the Seven-Headed Dragon, the Serpent, and the Beast, which culminate in the Second Coming of Jesus.  The obscure and extravagant imagery has led to a wide variety of Christian interpretations. Historicist interpretations see Revelation as containing a broad view of history while preterist interpretations treat Revelation as mostly referring to the events of the Apostolic Age (1st century), or, at the latest, the fall of the Western Roman Empire in the 5th century. Futurists, meanwhile, believe that Revelation describes future events with the seven churches growing into the body of believers throughout the age, and a reemergence or continuous rule of a Greco-Roman system with modern capabilities described by John in ways familiar to him; and idealist or symbolic interpretations consider that Revelation does not refer to actual people or events but is an allegory of the spiritual path and the ongoing struggle between good and evil.
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]  Source:
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]  the Los Angeles Review of Books, Louis and Lagasnerie denounce the legitimization of right-wing agendas in public discourse and establish principles by which leftist intellectuals should reengage in public debate. In 2016, Louis published his second novel, History of Violence. In recounting the story of his rape and attempted murder on Christmas Eve of 2012, the autobiographical novel centers around the cyclical and self-perpetuating nature of violence in society. In May 2017 Louis wrote "Why My Father Votes for Le Pen", an op-ed that was published on the front page of The New York Times. In the piece, published on
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]  In 1994-1995, Louis served as editor on a number of guides to the Internet. He was a principal research editor on five books authored by Michael Wolff: Net.Games, Net.Money, Net.Sports, Net.Trek, and Net.Tech. Louis also wrote articles for a wide number of technology publications including The Silicon Alley Reporter, Business 2.0, IEEE Spectrum, The New York Times, and others. Beginning in 2000, Louis started publishing a weblog, which is noted for its dissection and research into technology trends. In 2010, Louis became a frequent contributor to Business Insider and Forbes. In 2011, Louis started a weekly column called "On technology". It is now carried by 35 newspapers globally.
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP] As writer and illustrator As illustrator only
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]  Saint Louis is a 1996 biography of Louis IX of France by historian Jacques Le Goff. The book received positive reviews for its historical detail, and was awarded the 1996 Grand prix Gobert by the French Academy. It was also a best-seller.
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP] Louis Sachar  Louis Sachar ( ; born March 20, 1954) is an American young-adult mystery-comedy author. He is best known for the "Wayside School" series and the novel "Holes".  "Holes" won the 1998 U.S. National Book Award for Young People's Literature<ref name=nba1998> "National Book Awards – 1998". National Book Foundation. Retrieved January 26, 2012. (With acceptance speech by Sachar.)</ref> and the 1999 Newbery Medal for the year's "most distinguished contribution to American literature for children".<ref name=newbery> "Newbery Medal and Honor Books, 1922–Present". Association for Library Service to Children. (ALSC). American Library Association (ALA).   "The John Newbery Medal". ALSC. ALA. Retrieved March 26, 2012.</ref> In 2013, it was ranked sixth among all children's novels in a survey published by "School Library Journal".
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP] Louis L'Amour  Louis Dearborn L'Amour (; né LaMoore; March 22, 1908 – June 10, 1988) was an American novelist and short story writer. His books consisted primarily of Western novels (though he called his work "frontier stories"); however, he also wrote historical fiction ("The Walking Drum"), science fiction ("Haunted Mesa"), non-fiction ("Frontier"), as well as poetry and short-story collections. Many of his stories were made into films. His books remain popular and most have gone through multiple printings. At the time of his death almost all of his 105 existing works (89 novels, 14 short-story collections, and two full-length works of nonfiction) were still in print, and he was "one of the world's most popular writers".
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP] Robert Louis Stevenson  Robert Louis Stevenson (born Robert Lewis Balfour Stevenson; 13 November 1850 – 3 December 1894) was a Scottish novelist, essayist, poet, and travel writer. He is best known for works such as "Treasure Island", "Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde", "Kidnapped" and "A Child's Garden of Verses".  Born and educated in Edinburgh, Stevenson suffered from serious bronchial trouble for much of his life, but continued to write prolifically and travel widely in defiance of his poor health. As a young man, he mixed in London literary circles, receiving encouragement from Andrew Lang, Edmund Gosse, Leslie Stephen and W. E. Henley, the last of whom may have provided the model for Long John Silver in "Treasure Island". In 1890, he settled in Samoa where, alarmed at increasing European and American influence in the South Sea islands, his writing turned away from romance and adventure fiction toward a darker realism. He died of a stroke in his island home in 1894 at age 44.<ref name=":0" />  A celebrity in his lifetime, Stevenson's critical reputation has fluctuated since his death, though today his works are held in general acclaim. In 2018 he was ranked, just behind Charles Dickens, as the 26th-most-translated author in the world.
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]
Who is the author of Louis? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  A Burning is a novel by Indian-born author Megha Majumdar released in June 2020. By December 2020, the novel was on 13 lists of the best books of 2020, according to Literary Hub.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] The Burning (1991) ISBN: 0875795218 ; The Santa Claus Book (published under the pseudonym Alden Perkes, 1982) ISBN: 978-0818403811
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  The Book of Burning is an album by the American heavy metal band Virgin Steele. It was released in January 2002 by Noise Records to celebrate the twentieth anniversary of the band, together with the compilation Hymns to Victory. The Book of Burning caused a controversy between founding members David DeFeis and Jack Starr about the format of the recording, with the result of Starr renouncing any involvement in the production of the album and in other reunion projects. According to the CD booklet, the album was recorded from June to August 2001, except "Conjuration of the Watcher", which was recorded in 1999 during "The House Of Atreus Act I" sessions.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  During World War II the French writer and anti-Nazi resistance fighter André Malraux worked on a long novel, The Struggle Against the Angel, the manuscript of which was destroyed by the Gestapo upon his capture in 1944. The name was apparently inspired by the Jacob story in the Bible. A surviving opening part named The Walnut Trees of Altenburg, was published after the war.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP]  Burning Grass is a novel by Nigerian author Cyprian Ekwensi. It was published in 1962 as the second book in Heinemann's African Writers Series.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Mississippi Burning  Mississippi Burning is a 1988 American crime thriller film directed by Alan Parker that is loosely based on the 1964 murder investigation of Chaney, Goodman, and Schwerner in Mississippi. It stars Gene Hackman and Willem Dafoe as two FBI agents investigating the disappearance of three civil rights workers in fictional Jessup County, Mississippi, who are met with hostility by the town's residents, local police, and the Ku Klux Klan.  Screenwriter Chris Gerolmo began the script in 1985 after researching the 1964 murders of James Chaney, Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner. He and producer Frederick Zollo presented it to Orion Pictures, and the studio hired Parker to direct the film. The writer and director had disputes over the script, and Orion allowed Parker to make uncredited rewrites. The film was shot in a number of locations in Mississippi and Alabama, with principal photography from March to May 1988.  On release, "Mississippi Burning" was criticized by activists involved in the civil rights movement and the families of Chaney, Goodman and Schwerner for its fictionalization of events. Critical reaction was generally positive, with praise aimed towards the performances of Hackman, Dafoe and Frances McDormand. The film grossed $34.6 million in North America against a production budget of $15 million. It received seven Academy Award nominations, including Best Picture, and won for Best Cinematography.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Book burning  Book burning is the deliberate destruction by fire of books or other written materials, usually carried out in a public context. The burning of books represents an element of censorship and usually proceeds from a cultural, religious, or political opposition to the materials in question. Book burning can be an act of contempt for the book's contents or author, intended to draw wider public attention to this opinion, or conceal the information contained in the text from being made public, such as diaries or ledgers.   In some cases, the destroyed works are irreplaceable and their burning constitutes a severe loss to cultural heritage. Examples include the burning of books and burying of scholars under China's Qin Dynasty (213–210 BCE), the destruction of the House of Wisdom during the Mongol siege of Baghdad (1258), the destruction of Aztec codices by Itzcoatl (1430s), the burning of Maya codices on the order of bishop Diego de Landa (1562), and the burning of Jaffna Public Library in Sri Lanka (1981).<ref name="smithsonian" />  In other cases, such as the Nazi book burnings, copies of the destroyed books survive, but the instance of book burning becomes emblematic of a harsh and oppressive regime which is seeking to censor or silence some aspect of prevailing culture.  In modern times, other forms of media, such as phonograph records, video tapes, and CDs have also been burned, shredded, or crushed. Art destruction is related to book burning, both because it might have similar cultural, religious, or political connotations, and because in various historical cases, books and artworks were destroyed at the same time.  When the burning is widespread and systematic, destruction of books and media can become a significant component of cultural genocide.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Burning the Books  Burning the Books: A History of the Deliberate Destruction of Knowledge is a 2020 book by Bodleian Libraries Director Richard Ovenden on the history of intentional recorded knowledge destruction. It was shortlisted for the 2021 Wolfson History Prize.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] A Burning  A Burning is a novel by Indian-born author Megha Majumdar released in June 2020. By December 2020, the novel was on 13 lists of the best books of 2020, according to Literary Hub.
Who is the author of The Burning? [SEP] Burning Love  "Burning Love" is a 1972 song by Elvis Presley written by Dennis Linde, originally released by Arthur Alexander earlier in 1972. Elvis Presley had a major hit with the song, becoming his biggest hit single in the United States since "Suspicious Minds" in 1969 and his last Top 10 hit in the American Hot 100 or pop charts.
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP]  The Sword of Shibito (しびとの剣) is a manga series written by Hideyuki Kikuchi and illustrated by Missile Kakurai (加倉井ミサイル). It was serialized in the Japanese seinen manga magazine Comic Birz from 1998 until 2002. The Sword of Shibito was also licensed  in English by Central Park Media and in French by 12 Bis. The manga takes place in the Edo period of Japan.
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP]  Mania.com's Jarred Pine criticises the manga for its art, which is "a horrible mess". Animefringe's authors agreed and noted that "the cover art looks great and you get two pages in the manga that look excellent so it’s upsetting to see this".
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP]  f/nf) • Tatsuhiko Shibusawa (澁澤龍彦, 1928–1987, Japan, f/nf) • Shide (拾得, fl. 9th c., China, p) • Carol Shields (1935–2003, US/Canada, f) • Mitsuko Shiga (四賀光子, 1885–1976, Japan, p) • Naoya Shiga (志賀直哉, 1883–1971, Japan, f) • Shiing-Shen Chern (陳省身, 1911–2004, China, nf/p) • Masaoka Shiki (正岡子規, 1867–1902, Japan, p/nf) • Arthur Richard Shilleto (1848–1894, England, nf) • Richard Shilleto (1809–1876, England, nf) • Masahiko Shimada (島田雅彦, born 1961, Japan, f/p) • Kensaku Shimaki (島木健作, 1903–1945, Japan, f) • Toshio Shimao (島尾敏雄, 1917–1986, Japan, f) • Tōson Shimazaki (島崎藤村, 1872–1943, Japan, p/f) • Motoyoshi Shimizu (清水基吉, 1918–2008, Japan, f/p) • Shimizu Shikin (清水紫琴,
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP]  the Kurgan's sword. Tak-Ne marries three different times during his life. In Japan, less than six centuries before the beginning of the Common Era, he marries Shakiko, a Japanese princess. Shakiko's father, a great swordsmith named Masamune, gives Ramírez a katana in 592 BC. The sword is unique for the time, forged with a technique that Japan will not see again until the Middle Ages. After Shakiko dies, Ramírez is emotionally shattered and decides he will not form such connections with mortals again. He likewise advises other immortals against forming romantic connections with mortals. By the 15th century, Tak-Ne lives in Spain under the name Juan Sánchez-Villalobos Ramírez and
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] Nick Evangelista: The encyclopedia of the sword. Greenwood Publishing Group, 1995, Page 419, ISBN 978-0-313-27896-9. ; Stephen Turnbull: The Samurai Swordsman: Master of War. Publisher: Tuttle Publishing, 2008, ISBN 978-4-8053-0956-8.
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] The Sword of Shibito  The manga takes place in the Edo period of Japan.
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] Siren: Blood Curse  Siren: Blood Curse is a survival horror stealth game developed by Project Siren, a development team of Japan Studio, and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 3. The third and final installment in the "Siren" series, "Blood Curse" was released in July 2008 in Japan and on the PlayStation Store in North America and PAL regions. It was released in October 2008 in Australia and Europe and in December on the PlayStation Store in Japan.  "Blood Curse" is a "reimagining" of the first installment in the series, "Siren", with many alterations to structure and content, along with most of the gameplay improvements introduced in "Forbidden Siren 2". The game follows a cast of interconnected characters as they try to survive a cursed village in a remote area of Japan.
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] Orient (manga)
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] Hideyuki Kikuchi
Who is the author of The Sword of Shibito? [SEP] Forbidden Siren 2  Forbidden Siren 2 is a survival horror stealth game developed by Japan Studio's Project Siren team and published by Sony Computer Entertainment for the PlayStation 2 in 2006. It is a sequel to 2003's "Siren" ("Forbidden Siren"). A film inspired by the game but featuring a different plot and characters, "Siren", was released that same year.  The game tells the story of several characters who become trapped on Yamijima Island, off the coast of mainland Japan. In 1976, during a blackout, the entire population of the island disappeared without a trace or explanation. Twenty-nine years later, in 2005, a journalist is visiting the island to conduct research for an article when the ferry he and a small group of other passengers are on capsizes. Shortly after this, a group of soldiers crash land on the island. The game is played from the perspective of these characters, and out of chronological order, as the protagonists attempt to survive the island's monsters and discover its mystery.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP]  Balaraba Ramat Yakubu (born 1959) is a Nigerian author who writes in Hausa. She is a leader in the genre of littattafan soyayya or "love literature", and one of the very few Hausa-language writers whose work has been translated into English. She has also worked as a screenwriter, producer, and director of Kannywood films. Her stories have focused on issues such as forced marriages and women's education.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP] Thralai Hlabu (1963); ; Hmar Hla Suina (1980); ; Zangkhaw Bungbu (2000); ; Nun Ram, Ka Nun (2001); ; Baibul (Hmar)-Holy Bible, Delhi Version (2007) ; Rabindranath Tagore's Nobel Prize winning work ; The Gitanjali (translated in 1974 and now in the press). Zoram Khawvel 1–8, Bawktlang Thawnthu ; Thuthlung Ram ; Pherzawl Titi ; L.KeivomThukhawchang 1–2 L. Keivom has written and published more than 20 books in Hmar: In Mizo:
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP]  Balaraba Ramat started her career as the only woman member of the influential Kano-based writer's club Raina Kama. Her first novel, Budurwar Zuciya ("Young at Heart"), was published in 1987. Her second and third novels, Alhaki Kwikwiyo Ne... ("Sin Is a Puppy That Follows You Home") and Wa zai auri jahila? ("Who Will Marry an Ignorant Woman?"), followed in 1990. Alhaki Kwikwiyo Ne... was adapted into a film by Abdulkareem Muhammed in 1998. An English translation of Alhaki Kuykuyo Ne..., Sin Is a Puppy That Follows You Home, was published in 2012 by Blaft Publications, an Indian publishing house, to positive reviews. There is a literary prize named after her, the Balaraba Ramat Yakubu Literature Prize for Hausa Drama.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP]  Malik has written two books named Alor Poth and Jiboner Kichhu Katha in Bangla. The copyrights of these books have been donated to National Heart Foundation Hospital & Research Institute, Dhaka and the revenue earnings from these are deposited in the charitable fund named "The Lillah Fund" to bear the treatment cost of poor patients.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP]  Muhammad Khudayyir (born 1942) is an Iraqi writer. He was born in Basra where he still lives. He is mainly known as a writer of short stories, having published several collections till date. These include Black Kingdom and Vision of Autumn. In 2004, Khudayyir won the Sultan Bin Ali Al Owais Cultural Award for his contribution to literature. Basrayatha, a fictional memoir of his native city, has been translated into English by William Hutchins.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP] D. N. Madhok  Dina Nath Madhok (22 October 1902 – 9 July 1982) was a prominent lyricist of Bollywood in the 1940s to 1960s. He started his career with the 1932 film "Radhey Sham". He wrote over 800 songs in his career spanning four decades and was regarded as one of the top lyricist in the 1940s earning himself the soubriquet ""Mahakavi" Madhok". Madhok is cited as one of the three "First Generation" of lyricists (1930s to 1950s) along with Kidar Sharma and Kavi Pradeep.<ref name=Anantharaman2008 /> Apart from writing lyrics, he wrote screenplays and directed films. He directed almost 17 films like "Baghdad Ka Chor" (1934), "Mirza Sahiban" (1939), "Biwamangal" (1954) and the Madhubala-starrer "Naata" (1955).
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP] Khubsoorat  Khubsoorat (transl. Beautiful) is a 1980 Indian Hindi-language comedy-drama film, directed and produced by Hrishikesh Mukherjee, co-produced by N. C. Sippy with dialogues written by Gulzar. The movie stars Ashok Kumar, Rekha, Rakesh Roshan, Dina Pathak in lead roles. The movie received critical acclaim and was a box-office success. The movie was remade in Telugu as Swargam in 1981 and Tamil as Lakshmi Vandhachu and in Malayalam as Vannu Kandu Keezhadakki. The 2014 film of the same name was loosely based on it and was Disney's first live-action Bollywood movie.  Hrishikesh Mukherjee won the 1981 Filmfare Award for Best Film for his direction. Rekha won the Filmfare Award for Best Actress for her role as Manju Dayal. Dina Pathak received a nomination for the Filmfare Award for Best Supporting Actress for her role as Nirmala Gupta.
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP]
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP] Agha Hashar Kashmiri  Agha Hashar Kashmiri (born Muhammad Shah, 3 April 1879 – 1 April 1935) was an Urdu poet, playwright and dramatist. A number of his plays were Indian Shakespearean adaptations.<ref name="EB" />
Who is the author of Khubsurat Bala? [SEP] Balaa  Balaa () is a 2018 Pakistani thriller television series aired on ARY Digital. It is produced by Fahad Mustafa and Dr. Ali Kazmi under their banner Big Bang Entertainment. It stars Bilal Abbas Khan, Ushna Shah, Azekah Daniel, Samina Peerzada, Sajid Hassan, Ismat Zaidi and Mehar Bano. The series follows the story of a limping girl who destroys the lives of people around her due to her own insecurities and imperfections.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP]  In 1992, he formed an academic association called AWARE, with the primary goal "to promote intellectual and religious freedom by educating the general public about existing religions and cultures, including, but not limited to, alternative religious groups." Describing its outlook as "scholarly and non-sectarian", AWARE stated that it sought to educate scholars and the general public about the persecution of religious and cultural minorities in the United States and abroad, and to assist the United States in its efforts to counter prejudice. Other scholars involved in the formulation of AWARE as an "anti-anti-cult organization" included Eileen Barker, David G. Bromley, and Jeffrey Hadden, who felt a need
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP]  Aware (Awaare) is a town and the capital of the Aware woreda, in the Somali Region of Ethiopia. It is frequently considered part of the Haud.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP]  Aware is the eighth album released by Salvador. It was released on April 29, 2008 through Word.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP]  Aware Electronics Inc., Ltd was a Taiwanese electronics manufacturer. It was established in 2006 with the guidance and assistance of the Institute for Information Industry. It produced the A-BOOK series, which includes the A-View and AW-300 models (2008). The earlier model AW-150 was sold in the US as the MiTYBOOK.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP]  Nadim Nassar is Executive Director. He is co-founder of the Awareness Foundation along with Michael Marshall (President Emeritus of the Awareness Foundation). Nassar's first book, The Culture of God, was published by Hodder in 2018. He has been a guest blogger on the UK website of The Daily Telegraph, and both Marshall and Nassar have spoken around the world. Charles Longbottom was the Founding Chair of Trustees.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP] Self-awareness  In philosophy of self, self-awareness is the experience of one's own personality or individuality. It is not to be confused with consciousness in the sense of qualia. While consciousness is being aware of one's environment and body and lifestyle, self-awareness is the recognition of that awareness. Self-awareness is how an individual consciously knows and understands their own character, feelings, motives, and desires.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP] The Aware  The Aware (2003) is the first book in "The Isles of Glory" by Glenda Larke.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP] Lucid dream  A lucid dream is a type of dream in which the dreamer becomes aware that they are dreaming while dreaming. During a lucid dream, the dreamer may gain some amount of control over the dream characters, narrative, or environment; however, this is not actually necessary for a dream to be described as lucid. Lucid dreaming has been studied and reported for many years. Prominent figures from ancient to modern times have been fascinated by lucid dreams and have sought ways to better understand their causes and purpose.   Many different theories have emerged as a result of scientific research on the subject and have even been shown in pop culture. Further developments in psychological research have pointed to ways in which this form of dreaming may be utilized as a form of sleep therapy.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP] Mono no aware  , literally "the pathos of things", and also translated as "an empathy toward things", or "a sensitivity to ephemera", is a Japanese idiom for the awareness of , or transience of things, and both a transient gentle sadness (or wistfulness) at their passing as well as a longer, deeper gentle sadness about this state being the reality of life.
Who is the author of The Aware? [SEP] Bolo universe  The "Bolo" universe is a fictional universe based on a series of military science fiction books by author Keith Laumer. It primarily revolves around the eponymous "Bolo", a type of self-aware tank. They first appeared in the short story "Combat Unit" (1960), and have since been featured in science fiction novels and short story anthologies by him and others.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP]  Contemporary Authors Online. The Gale Group, 2003. PEN (Permanent Entry Number): 0000149473.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP]  Paul Pen is a Spanish author of literary fiction, thriller and suspense. His first novel, El aviso, earned him the title of Fnac New Talent in 2011 and has been translated into German, Italian and English. This debut was described as "outstanding" by Babelia, the cultural section of Spanish newspaper El País. In 2013, he released his second novel, El brillo de las luciérnagas (Plaza y Janés), published in English by AmazonCrossing in April 2016, translated by Simon Bruni. He has also published some fifteen short stories, some of them appearing in men's magazines such as NOX and Don. In 2017, his third novel La casa entre los cactus (Desert Flowers) was published internationally in many languages, as it happened in 2019 with his subsequent novel Un matrimonio perfecto (Under the Water).
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP]  The inaugural event was held in New York City from April 18 to April 25, 2005. Participating authors came from 45 different countries and included: Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Jonathan Ames, Paul Auster, Breyten Breytenbach, Nuruddin Farah, Gish Jen, Ryszard Kapuściński, Khaled Mattawa, Azar Nafisi, Elif Shafak, Wole Soyinka, Ali Bader and Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP]  Contemporary Authors Online. The Gale Group, 2007. PEN (Permanent Entry Number): 0000134622.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP]  John Jenkins (1755–1822) was an American schoolteacher who wrote the first entirely American book on penmanship, The Art of Writing, Reduced to a Plain and Easy System, first printed in 1791 by Isaiah Thomas. It consisted of 32 pages of text, four plates of engraved writing samples and a frontispiece. It was recommended by John Adams, Benjamin Franklin and John Hancock. Jenkins' system became the standard in America, and a revised second edition was published in 1813 by Flagg & Gould.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP] List of pen names  This is a list of pen names used by notable authors of written work. A pen name or "nom de plume" is a pseudonym adopted by an author. A pen name may be used to make the author' name more distinctive, to disguise the author's gender, to distance the author from their other works, to protect the author from retribution for their writings, to combine more than one author into a single author, or for any of a number of reasons related to the marketing or aesthetic presentation of the work. The author's name may be known only to the publisher, or may come to be common knowledge.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP] Pen name  A pen name, also called a nom de plume or a literary double, is a pseudonym (or, in some cases, a variant form of a real name) adopted by an author and printed on the title page or by-line of their works in place of their real name.   A pen name may be used to make the author's name more distinctive, to disguise the author's gender, to distance the author from their other works, to protect the author from retribution for their writings, to merge multiple persons into a single identifiable author, or for any of a number of reasons related to the marketing or aesthetic presentation of the work.  The author's real identity may be known only to the publisher or may become common knowledge.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP] PEN International  PEN International (known as International PEN until 2010) is a worldwide association of writers, founded in London in 1921 to promote friendship and intellectual co-operation among writers everywhere. The association has autonomous International PEN centers in over 100 countries.  Other goals included: to emphasise the role of literature in the development of mutual understanding and world culture; to fight for freedom of expression; and to act as a powerful voice on behalf of writers harassed, imprisoned and sometimes killed for their views.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP] Saki  Hector Hugh Munro (18 December 1870 – 14 November 1916), better known by the pen name Saki and also frequently as H. H. Munro, was a British writer whose witty, mischievous and sometimes macabre stories satirize Edwardian society and culture. He is considered by English teachers and scholars a master of the short story and is often compared to O. Henry and Dorothy Parker. Influenced by Oscar Wilde, Lewis Carroll and Rudyard Kipling, he himself influenced A. A. Milne, Noël Coward and P. G. Wodehouse.<ref name="ODNB" />  Besides his short stories (which were first published in newspapers, as was customary at the time, and then collected into several volumes), he wrote a full-length play, "The Watched Pot", in collaboration with Charles Maude; two one-act plays; a historical study, "The Rise of the Russian Empire" (the only book published under his own name); a short novel, "The Unbearable Bassington"; the episodic "The Westminster Alice" (a parliamentary parody of "Alice in Wonderland"); and "When William Came", subtitled "A Story of London Under the Hohenzollerns", a fantasy about a future German invasion and occupation of Britain.
Who is the author of Pen? [SEP] J. K. Rowling  Joanne Rowling ( "rolling"; born 31 July 1965), also known by her pen name J. K. Rowling, is a British author and philanthropist. She wrote "Harry Potter", a seven-volume children's fantasy series published from 1997 to 2007. The series has sold over 500 million copies, been translated into at least 70 languages, and spawned a global media franchise including films and video games. "The Casual Vacancy" (2012) was her first novel for adults. She writes "Cormoran Strike", an ongoing crime fiction series, as Robert Galbraith.  Born in Yate, Gloucestershire, Rowling was working as a researcher and bilingual secretary for Amnesty International in 1990 when she conceived the idea for the "Harry Potter" series while on a delayed train from Manchester to London. The seven-year period that followed saw the death of her mother, birth of her first child, divorce from her first husband, and relative poverty until the first novel in the series, "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone", was published in 1997. There were six sequels, of which the last was released in 2007. By 2008, "Forbes" had named her the world's highest-paid author.   Rowling concluded the "Harry Potter" series with "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows" (2007). The novels follow a boy called Harry Potter as he attends Hogwarts, a school for wizards, and battles Lord Voldemort. Death and the divide between good and evil are the central themes of the series. Its influences include: "Bildungsroman" (the coming-of-age genre), school stories, fairy tales, and Christian allegory. The series revived fantasy as a genre in the children's market, spawned a host of imitators, and inspired an active fandom. Critical reception has been more mixed. Many reviewers see Rowling's writing as conventional; some regard her portrayal of gender and social division as regressive. There were also religious debates over "Harry Potter".  Rowling has won many accolades for her work. She has received an OBE and made a Companion of Honour for services to literature and philanthropy. "Harry Potter" brought her wealth and recognition that she has used to advance philanthropic endeavours and political causes. She co-founded the charity Lumos and established the Volant Charitable Trust, named after her mother. Rowling's charitable giving centres on medical causes and supporting at-risk women and children. In politics, she has donated to Britain's Labour Party and opposed Scottish independence and Brexit. Since late 2019, she has publicly expressed her opinions on transgender people and related civil rights. These have been criticised as transphobic by LGBT rights organisations and some feminists, but have received support from other feminists and individuals.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP]  Science-Fantasy Quintette is a collection of science fiction short stories by authors L. Ron Hubbard and Ed Earl Repp and edited by William L. Crawford. It was published in 1953 by Fantasy Publishing Company, Inc. in an edition of 300 copies. The book is an omnibus of Repp's The Radium Pool and Hubbard's Triton. The stories originally appeared in the magazines Unknown, Amazing Stories, Fantasy Book and Science Wonder Stories.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP]  L. E. (Leland Exton) Modesitt Jr. (born 19 October 1943) is an American science fiction and fantasy author who has written over 75 novels. He is best known for the fantasy series The Saga of Recluce. By 2015 the 18 novels in the Recluce series had sold nearly three million copies. By 2019 there were 22 Recluce novels. In addition to his novels, Modesitt has published technical studies and articles, columns, poetry, and a number of science fiction stories. His first short story, "The Great American Economy", was published in 1973 in Analog Science Fiction and Science Fact. In 2008, he published his first collection of short stories, Viewpoints Critical: Selected Stories (Tor Books, 2008).
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP]  Wolfe has written extensively about science fiction and fantasy literature; he is recognized as one of the experts in the field. He has had a monthly review column in Locus since December, 1991 and has written for Salon and other sites. He collaborates with editor Jonathan Strahan on The Coode Street Podcast, a "discussion and digression on science fiction and fantasy" that was launched in May 2010, and is syndicated at Tor.com. In 2016, he taught the course How Great Science Fiction Works for The Great Courses.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP]  Rebecca M. Meluch, published as R. M. Meluch (born October 24, 1956) is an American writer of science fiction. From 1979 to 1992, Meluch wrote several novels treating a variety of subjects, followed by a period in which she published rarely. In 2005, she published the first of the Tour of the Merrimack series of military science fiction/space opera novels. The series is set on the warship U.S.S. Merrimack in a future where the United States and a recreated Roman Empire are at war with the alien "Hive".
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP]  The Thirteen science fantasy series was written by Trisha White Priebe and edited by Jenkins. Published by Barbour.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP] Science-Fantasy Quintette  Science-Fantasy Quintette is a collection of science fiction short stories by American writers L. Ron Hubbard and Ed Earl Repp, edited by William L. Crawford. It was published in 1953 by Fantasy Publishing Company, Inc. in an edition of 300 copies. The book is an omnibus of Repp's "The Radium Pool" and Hubbard's "Triton". The stories originally appeared in the magazines "Unknown", "Amazing Stories", "Fantasy Book" and "Science Wonder Stories".
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP] Time Quintet  The Time Quintet is a fantasy/science fiction series of five young adult novels written by Madeleine L'Engle.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP] A Wind in the Door  A Wind in the Door is a young adult science fantasy novel by Madeleine L'Engle. It is a companion book to "A Wrinkle in Time" and part of the Time Quintet.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP] Quintet (film)  Quintet is a 1979 American post-apocalyptic science fiction film directed by Robert Altman. It stars Paul Newman, Brigitte Fossey, Bibi Andersson, Fernando Rey, Vittorio Gassman and Nina Van Pallandt.
Who is the author of Science-Fantasy Quintette? [SEP] The Cleric Quintet  The Cleric Quintet is a series of five fantasy novels by American writer R. A. Salvatore, set in the Forgotten Realms campaign setting of the "Dungeons & Dragons" fantasy role-playing game. They follow the story of Cadderly Bonaduce, a scholar-cleric, as he attempts to stop the "Chaos Curse" unleashed upon the world. It is also a spiritual journey for Cadderly, where he begins to see things in a new light and becomes closer to his god.  Recurring characters in this series include Cadderly Bonaduce, Danica Maupoissant, the dwarven brothers Ivan and Pikel Bouldershoulder, and Shayleigh, an elf maiden of Shilmista Forest.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP]  Sin (Грех) is a 2007 novel in stories by the Russian writer Zakhar Prilepin. This novel was published in 2007 in Vargius (Russia).
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP]  Dutch author Maarten H. Rijkens has written two books on the subject for Dutch readers: I always get my sin and We always get our sin too.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP]  Sin: A Novel, also known as Sins, is a 1973 politico-historical novel written by Filipino National Artist F. Sionil José. This particular work of literature features the History of the Philippines, for the most part spanning the twentieth century, through the eyes of the “amoral” Don Carlos Corbello, a wealthy patriarch also known by the moniker “C.C.”. Being a part of that era, Corbello reaps most of what he sowed when he was already on his “deathbed”. During this time, Corbello recalled the loves of his life, those that he had lost and longed for. A literary account of the “steady degradation” of the Philippines, Sin was described by Pico Iyer of The New York Times Book Review as a book " ... set in the Philippines, this amorality tale shadows a rake's impenitent progress ..."
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP]  The Original Sin is Anthony Quinn's first autobiography. The full title is The Original Sin: A Self-Portrait by Anthony Quinn, and it was first published in October 1972 by Little, Brown & Company, Boston & Toronto with ISBN: 0-316-72898-5. Quinn's autobiography is a sweeping and very personal account of his life. His story is that of a man who has difficulty accepting unconditional love (this is the original sin) and the death of his son at an early age. He explores his past and reveals his darkest feelings with his psychiatrist and the reasons why he was finally able to accept love and the death of his son Christopher at the age of two. Quinn describes his upbringing, the poverty and his affections for his mother and father which helped define the character he became. His anecdotes of working in Hollywood are also entertaining and reveal a human side of Hollywood. He reveals how he met some of his famous friends which include Mae West, Katharine Hepburn, Rita Hayworth, Carole Lombard, Frank Lloyd Wright, John Barrymore, Gary Cooper, Cecil B. de Mille.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP]  Original Sin is a 1994 detective novel in the Adam Dalgliesh series by P. D. James. It is set in London, mainly in Wapping in the Borough of Tower Hamlets, and centers on the city's oldest publishing house, Peverell Press, headquartered in a mock-Venetian palace on the River Thames.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP] Sin City (film)  Sin City (also known as Frank Miller's Sin City) is a 2005 American neo-noir crime anthology film produced and directed by Frank Miller and Robert Rodriguez. It is based on Miller's graphic novel of the same name.  Much of the film is based on the first, third, and fourth books in Miller's original comic series. "The Hard Goodbye" is about an ex-convict who embarks on a rampage in search of his one-time sweetheart's killer. "The Big Fat Kill" follows a private investigator who gets caught in a street war between a group of prostitutes and a group of mercenaries, the police and the mob. "That Yellow Bastard" focuses on an aging police officer who protects a young woman from a grotesquely disfigured serial killer. The intro and outro of the film are based on the short story "The Customer is Always Right" which is collected in "Booze, Broads & Bullets", the sixth book in the comic series.  The film stars an ensemble cast led by Jessica Alba, Benicio del Toro, Brittany Murphy, Clive Owen, Mickey Rourke, Bruce Willis, and Elijah Wood, and featuring Alexis Bledel, Powers Boothe, Michael Clarke Duncan, Rosario Dawson, Carla Gugino, Rutger Hauer, Jaime King, Michael Madsen, Nick Stahl, and Makenzie Vega among others.  "Sin City" opened to wide critical and commercial success, gathering particular recognition for the film's unique color processing which rendered most of the film in black and white while retaining or adding color for selected objects. The film was screened at the 2005 Cannes Film Festival in competition and won the Technical Grand Prize for the film's "visual shaping". A sequel also directed by Miller and Rodriguez was released in 2014, "", but failed to match the critical and commercial success of its predecessor.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP] Original sin  Original sin is the Christian doctrine that holds that humans, through the fact of birth, inherit a tainted nature in need of regeneration and a proclivity to sinful conduct. The biblical basis for the belief is generally found in Genesis 3 (the story of the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden), in a line in Psalm 51:5 ("I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me"), and in Paul's Epistle to the Romans, 5:12-21 ("Therefore, just as sin entered the world through one man, and death through sin, and in this way death came to all people, because all sinned").  The belief began to emerge in the 3rd century, but only became fully formed with the writings of Augustine of Hippo (354–430), who was the first author to use the phrase "original sin" (). Influenced by Augustine, the councils of Carthage (411–418 AD) and Orange (529 AD) brought theological speculation about original sin into the official lexicon of the Church.  Protestant reformers such as Martin Luther and John Calvin equated original sin with concupiscence (or "hurtful desire"), affirming that it persisted even after baptism and completely destroyed freedom to do good, proposing that original sin involved a loss of free will except to sin. The Jansenist movement, which the Roman Catholic Church declared heretical in 1653, also maintained that original sin destroyed freedom of will. Instead, the Catholic Church declares that "Baptism, by imparting the life of Christ's grace, erases original sin and turns a man back towards God, but the consequences for nature, weakened and inclined to evil, persist in man and summon him to spiritual battle",<ref name=ccc405 /> and that "weakened and diminished by Adam's fall, free will is yet not destroyed in the race."<ref name=CoT.VI.i />
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP] Sin City  Sin City is a series of neo-noir comics by American comic book writer-artist Frank Miller. The first story originally appeared in "Dark Horse Presents Fifth Anniversary Special" (April 1991), and continued in "Dark Horse Presents" #51–62 from May 1991 to June 1992, under the title of "Sin City", serialized in thirteen parts. Several other stories of variable lengths have followed. The intertwining stories, with frequently recurring characters, take place in Basin City.  A film adaptation of "Sin City", co-directed by Robert Rodriguez and Frank Miller, was released on April 1, 2005. A sequel, "", was released on August 22, 2014.
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP] Sin  In a religious context, sin is a transgression against divine law. Each culture has its own interpretation of what it means to commit a sin. While sins are generally considered actions, any thought, word, or act considered immoral, selfish, shameful, harmful, or alienating might be termed "sinful".
Who is the author of Sin? [SEP] Sui Sin Far  Sui Sin Far (, born Edith Maude Eaton; 15 March 1865 – 7 April 1914) was an author known for her writing about Chinese people in North America and the Chinese American experience. "Sui Sin Far", the pen name under which most of her work was published, is the Cantonese name of the narcissus flower, popular amongst Chinese people.
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP]  Weekend is a novel by the Scottish writer William McIlvanney published in 2006.
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP]  Writing in the Guardian in 2006, Irvine Welsh describes the book as having the "hunger, verve and freshness of a debut novel", and notes that "one of McIlvanney's greatest gifts as a writer has been the unerring humanity he invests in his characters, even at their most desperate". Stuart Kelly in the Telegraph highlighted the "terrifically comic moments" and "scenes of utter poignancy in the book" and wrote that "Weekend is Chekhovian in its unspoken moments and hard-won affirmations." In The Scottish Review of Books it is noted that in "Weekend William McIlvanney offers a masterclass in how to treat our very ancient modern condition: with as much high seriousness and sly wit as it deserves, with compassion for our foolishness and awe at our powers of endurance – simply our getting up every morning to begin again". Carol Birch in the Independent writes that "A complex, clever book, Weekend showcases McIlvanney's expertise with one-liners. Easy to admire, though curiously uninvolving, it packs a chilly punch".
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] "Weekend" (2014) by Priory
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP]  Dirty Weekend (1991) is a novel by Helen Zahavi, adapted into a film two years later by Zahavi and director Michael Winner. In the US it was first published under the title The Weekend; some editions are subtitled "A Novel of Revenge".
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP]  The play was unsuccessful on Broadway but was revived in 2008.
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] The Lost Weekend (novel)  The Lost Weekend is Charles R. Jackson's first novel, published by Farrar & Rinehart in 1944. The story of a talented but alcoholic writer was praised for its powerful realism, closely reflecting the author’s own experience of alcoholism, from which he was temporarily cured. It served as the basis for the classic 1945 Oscar winning film adaptation.
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] Christopher Pike (author)  Kevin Christopher McFadden (born November 12, 1955), known by his pen name Christopher Pike, is an American author. He is a bestselling author of young adult and children's fiction. Known for mystery-thrillers and supernatural horror aimed at young adults, he has also written adult fiction.
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] The Weekend (SZA song)  "The Weekend" is a song by American singer SZA from her debut studio album, "Ctrl" (2017). It was written by SZA and its producer ThankGod4Cody. The song samples "Set the Mood (Prelude)" from "FutureSex/LoveSounds" (2006), written by Justin Timberlake, Timbaland, and Danja, who also received writing credits for "The Weekend". "The Weekend" is an R&B and neo soul record that uses a synth-line, hi-hats, drums, a high-pitched vocal sample and clocking key thumps. SZA sings about knowingly being her partner's mistress, comparing herself to the weekend.  Prior to its official release, "The Weekend" debuted on some "Billboard" charts. The unexpected popularity of the song prompted RCA Records to release it on September 26, 2017, as the album's second radio single. The song reached number 29 on "Billboard" Hot 100, becoming SZA's first and highest chart position with a solo song until "I Hate U" reached number seven in 2022. It also topped the Hot R&B Songs chart and was certified triple platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on March 1, 2018 ."The Weekend" received a Grammy nomination at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards.  Its accompanying music video, directed by American musician Solange Knowles, was released on December 22, 2017. To promote "The Weekend", SZA performed the song on Saturday Night Live and at the 2017 BET Awards. SZA also performed the song during her first headlining concert tour, "CTRL". A remixed version of the song by Calvin Harris was released on December 15, 2017, with the title, "The Weekend - Funk Wav Remix".
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] Ezra Koenig  Ezra Michael Koenig ( ; born April 8, 1984) is an American musician, singer-songwriter, producer, and internet radio personality. He is best known as the lead vocalist, guitarist, and primary songwriter of indie rock band Vampire Weekend. Additionally, Koenig is the creator of the Netflix animated comedy series "Neo Yokio" and also hosts the Apple Music radio talk show "Time Crisis with Ezra Koenig. Time Crisis" is airing its eighth season, as of 2022.  Over his career Koenig has received many accolades, including five Grammy Award nominations for his work with Vampire Weekend in 2010, 2013 and 2019 (including Album of the Year), with wins in 2013 and 2019 for Best Alternative Music Album. He was also nominated for Album of the Year in 2016 for his production work on Beyoncé's album, "Lemonade".
Who is the author of Weekend? [SEP] Charles R. Jackson  Charles Reginald Jackson (April 6, 1903September 21, 1968) was an American writer. He wrote the 1944 novel "The Lost Weekend".
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP]  Empire is a collection of short stories by American writer H. Beam Piper, edited by John F. Carr. The book was published in 1981 by Ace Books, and again in 1986. Most of these stories take place in his Terro-Human Future History, with the sole exception being "The Return".
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP]  The book was widely-praised, called "a permanent contribution to history" by Kirkus. The book was awarded a National Book Award in 1953.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP]  Martine's first novel, A Memory Called Empire, published in 2019, is the beginning of her Teixcalaan series. It is set in a future where the Teixcalaanli empire governs most of human space, and is about to absorb Lsel, an independent mining station. Lsel ambassador Mahit Dzmare is sent to the imperial capital to prevent this, and finds herself embroiled in the empire's succession crisis. Martine said that the book was in many respects a fictional version of her postdoctoral research on Byzantine imperialism on the frontier to Armenia in the 11th century, particularly the annexation of the Kingdom of Ani. In The Verge, Andrew Liptak praised the novel as a "brilliant blend of cyberpunk, space opera,
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP]  Empire is the fourth historical novel in the Narratives of Empire series by Gore Vidal, published in 1987. The novel concerns the fictional newspaper dynasty of half-sibling characters Caroline and Blaise Sanford. Playing these characters against real-life figures of the years 1898 to 1907, the novel portrays the conjunction of government and mass media in the creation of modern-day America. As with Vidal's other books in his Narratives of Empire series, this novel offers an insight into the journalism of the time, following the exploits of William Randolph Hearst in his efforts to displace Theodore Roosevelt as president in 1904. Following the events leading up to and following the ascension of Theodore Roosevelt to the presidency following William McKinley's assassination, it includes pithy portraits of such leading public figures of the day as Roosevelt, Hearst, Henry Brooks Adams, Henry James, Secretary of State John Hay and President William McKinley. In this tome, the descendants of Charlie Schuyler, the fictitious main character, continue the American saga of empire building. Nevertheless, most of the characters in this novel are nonfiction and historic.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP]  The Course of Empire is a 1952 book by the American journalist and historian Bernard DeVoto. It is the third volume of a trilogy that includes The Year of Decision (1942) and Across the Wide Missouri (1947).
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP] Empire (Hardt and Negri book)  Empire is a book by post-Marxist philosophers Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri. Written in the mid-1990s, it was published in 2000 and quickly sold beyond its expectations as an academic work.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP] The Empire Writes Back  The Empire Writes Back: Theory and Practice in Post-Colonial Literatures is a 1989 non-fiction book on postcolonialism, penned by Bill Ashcroft, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin. "The Empire Writes Back" was the first major theoretical account of a wide range of postcolonial texts and their relationship with bigger issues of postcolonial culture, and is said to be one of the most significant and important works published in the field of postcolonialism. The writers debate on the relationships within postcolonial works, study the mighty forces acting on words in the postcolonial text, and prove how these texts constitute a radical critique of Eurocentric notions of language and literature. First released in 1989, this book had a second edition published in 2002.  The title refers to Salman Rushdie's 1982 article "The Empire Writes Back with a Vengeance". In addition to being a pun on the film "", the phrase refers to the ways postcolonial voices respond to the literary canon of the colonial centre.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP] Empire (2015 TV series)  Empire is an American musical drama television series created by Lee Daniels and Danny Strong for Fox that ran from January 7, 2015 to April 21, 2020. It is a joint production by Imagine Television and 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television. Although it is filmed in Chicago, the show is set in New York. The series centers on the fictional hip hop music and entertainment company Empire Entertainment, and the drama among the members of the founders' family as they fight for control of it. It stars Terrence Howard, Taraji P. Henson, Bryshere Y. Gray, Jussie Smollett and Trai Byers as members of the Lyon Family, along with a supporting cast including Grace Byers, Kaitlin Doubleday, Gabourey Sidibe, Ta'Rhonda Jones, Serayah, Malik Yoba and Vivica A. Fox.  The series premiered on January 7, 2015 to nearly 10 million viewers while the first-season finale was watched by 17 million viewers. Its first season received positive reviews from critics, who praised its acting, particularly Henson's, its direction, soundtrack, writing, costumes, editing and the overall tone of the show, with many critics describing it as a "fresh take on a musical." Subsequent seasons also received positive reviews, with its second season being the most well-received.  During its run, it was one of the most-watched television shows on Fox. On April 30, 2019, Fox renewed the show for the sixth season and final season, and the first without Smollett, who was confirmed to not be returning after he was charged with filing a false police report in an incident where he allegedly was assaulted by two men he claimed were Trump supporters. The season premiered on September 24, 2019 and the series concluded on April 21, 2020.  A spin-off of the series, centered around Taraji P. Henson's character, Cookie Lyon, was set to launch in 2020. However, Fox passed on the pilot, and it is being shopped to other networks.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP] Empire Falls  Empire Falls is a 2001 novel written by Richard Russo. It won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 2002, and follows the story of Miles Roby in a fictional, small blue-collar town in Maine and the people, places, and the past surrounding him, as manager of the Empire Grill diner.
Who is the author of Empire? [SEP] Inglorious Empire  Inglorious Empire: What the British Did to India, first published in India as An Era of Darkness: The British Empire in India, is a work of non-fiction by Shashi Tharoor, an Indian politician and diplomat, on the effects of British colonial rule on India. The book has received mixed reviews. In 2017, Tharoor won the 2017 Ramnath Goenka Excellence in Journalism Award and the 2019 Sahitya Akademi Award for this work.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP]  Empire is a collection of short stories by American writer H. Beam Piper, edited by John F. Carr. The book was published in 1981 by Ace Books, and again in 1986. Most of these stories take place in his Terro-Human Future History, with the sole exception being "The Return".
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP]  The book was widely-praised, called "a permanent contribution to history" by Kirkus. The book was awarded a National Book Award in 1953.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP]  Otia Imperialia ("Recreation for an Emperor") is an early 13th-century encyclopedic work, the best known work of Gervase of Tilbury. It is an example of Speculum literature. Also known as the "Book of Marvels", it primarily concerns the three fields of history, geography, and physics, but its credibility has been questioned by numerous scholars including philosopher Gottfried Leibniz, who was alerted to the fact that it contains many mythological stories. Its manner of writing is perhaps because the work was written to provide entertainment to Holy Roman Emperor Otto IV. However, many scholars consider it a very important work in that it "recognizes the correctness of the papal claims in the conflict between Church and Empire." It was written between 1210 and 1214, although some give the dates as between 1209 and 1214 and numerous authors state it was published c.1211.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP]  Annals of the Empire (Annales de l’Empire) is a history of Germany written by the French philosopher and author Voltaire at the request of Princess Luise Dorothea of Saxe-Meiningen in 1753. The first volume appeared in December 1753 and the second in March 1754. It is largely compiled from previous work by German historians: Voltaire described his role as like an architect, assembling a building from individual pieces of masonry.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP] Empire of the Atom, by A. E. van Vogt, translates Graves' novel about Claudius(above) into a science fiction context. ; The Foundation series by Isaac Asimov, about the fall of a galactic empire, is derived from Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. ; Dominic Flandry series by Poul Andersen, a space empire similarly inspired by Gibbon's history (and by Asimov) is decaying and about to collapse into a Long Night of barbarism; a heroic secret agent fights to stave off this fate. ; Julian Comstock by Robert Charles Wilson, about a post-apocalyptic America transformed into a neo-Roman Empire, and a high born youth who, like Julian the Apostate, fights the power of the Church. ; Bread and Circuses (Star Trek: The Original Series) ; Tarzan
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP] The Empire Writes Back  The Empire Writes Back: Theory and Practice in Post-Colonial Literatures is a 1989 non-fiction book on postcolonialism, penned by Bill Ashcroft, Gareth Griffiths and Helen Tiffin. "The Empire Writes Back" was the first major theoretical account of a wide range of postcolonial texts and their relationship with bigger issues of postcolonial culture, and is said to be one of the most significant and important works published in the field of postcolonialism. The writers debate on the relationships within postcolonial works, study the mighty forces acting on words in the postcolonial text, and prove how these texts constitute a radical critique of Eurocentric notions of language and literature. First released in 1989, this book had a second edition published in 2002.  The title refers to Salman Rushdie's 1982 article "The Empire Writes Back with a Vengeance". In addition to being a pun on the film "", the phrase refers to the ways postcolonial voices respond to the literary canon of the colonial centre.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP] Empire (Hardt and Negri book)  Empire is a book by post-Marxist philosophers Michael Hardt and Antonio Negri. Written in the mid-1990s, it was published in 2000 and quickly sold beyond its expectations as an academic work.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP] Empire (2015 TV series)  Empire is an American musical drama television series created by Lee Daniels and Danny Strong for Fox that ran from January 7, 2015 to April 21, 2020. It is a joint production by Imagine Television and 20th Century Fox Television and syndicated by 20th Television. Although it is filmed in Chicago, the show is set in New York. The series centers on the fictional hip hop music and entertainment company Empire Entertainment, and the drama among the members of the founders' family as they fight for control of it. It stars Terrence Howard, Taraji P. Henson, Bryshere Y. Gray, Jussie Smollett and Trai Byers as members of the Lyon Family, along with a supporting cast including Grace Byers, Kaitlin Doubleday, Gabourey Sidibe, Ta'Rhonda Jones, Serayah, Malik Yoba and Vivica A. Fox.  The series premiered on January 7, 2015 to nearly 10 million viewers while the first-season finale was watched by 17 million viewers. Its first season received positive reviews from critics, who praised its acting, particularly Henson's, its direction, soundtrack, writing, costumes, editing and the overall tone of the show, with many critics describing it as a "fresh take on a musical." Subsequent seasons also received positive reviews, with its second season being the most well-received.  During its run, it was one of the most-watched television shows on Fox. On April 30, 2019, Fox renewed the show for the sixth season and final season, and the first without Smollett, who was confirmed to not be returning after he was charged with filing a false police report in an incident where he allegedly was assaulted by two men he claimed were Trump supporters. The season premiered on September 24, 2019 and the series concluded on April 21, 2020.  A spin-off of the series, centered around Taraji P. Henson's character, Cookie Lyon, was set to launch in 2020. However, Fox passed on the pilot, and it is being shopped to other networks.
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Empire? [SEP] The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire  The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire is a six-volume work by the English historian Edward Gibbon. It traces Western civilization (as well as the Islamic and Mongolian conquests) from the height of the Roman Empire to the fall of Byzantium in the fifteenth century. Volume I was published in 1776 and went through six printings. Volumes II and III were published in 1781; volumes IV, V, and VI in 1788–1789.  The six volumes cover the history, from 98 to 1590, of the Roman Empire, the history of early Christianity and then of the Roman State Church, and the history of Europe, and discusses the decline of the Roman Empire among other things.
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]  One of the Family (1993) was the last novel written by Monica Dickens, great granddaughter of Charles Dickens. It is set in Edwardian London where the world, like main character Leonard Morley's life, is changing. We start the book with a single note which seems to leave a smudge on Leonard and his family life. The book continues with himself, two sons, a daughter and a wife as well as a large extended family all making room for one more, when curiously charming 'Doctor' Tobias Taylor appears on the scene. However curiosity killed more than just a cat, as the family soon finds out. Leonard Morley, in the very first chapter, receives a threatening note, requesting blood
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]  Robert Skutch is an American author born in 1925 and has published multiple books such as Journey Without Distance: The Story Behind a Course in Miracles, The Day the World Forgot, and another children's book named Albie's Trip to the Jumble Jungle. Skutch has also written for television and radio shows throughout his life In an NPR interview from 2005, Skutch says that his inspiration for writing this book was because his niece and her partner decided to start a family.
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]  Like One of the Family is a novel by Alice Childress. It was originally published in 1956 by Independence Publishers in Brooklyn, New York. It was re-published by Beacon Press in Boston in 1986. Each chapter, 62 in all, is told from the perspective of Mildred, a domestic worker in New York City, to her friend Marge, also a domestic worker. The chapters originally appeared with the title "Conversation from Life" in the Black Marxist newspaper Freedom (founded by Paul Robeson), and later were published in the Baltimore Afro-American. Literary scholar Trudier Harris notes that, in creating Mildred, "Childress may have been influenced by Langston Hughes's Jesse B. Simple... a gregarious, beer-loving, bar-hopping Harlemite who shared his adventures in the white world and his homely philosophies."
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]  readable; they follow an easily foreseen pattern, evoke the expected reactions, and provide comedy without ever stretching the faculties too far". Stevens highlighted One of the Family (1958) as one of the most successful of the novels, about an English uncle visiting New Zealand. They did, however, have an undercurrent of seriousness, due to Scott's family's experiences in the Great Depression; many of her stories featured themes of debt and poverty, or the failure of being forced to leave the backblocks and return to living in town. She also published three volumes of plays, and in the 1960s collaborated with fellow New Zealand writer Joyce West
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]  A Friend of the Family was published by Algonquin Books in November 2009. The following November, the paperback was printed. A Friend of the Family, as well as Grodstein's other work, has been translated into German, Italian, French, Turkish, and other languages.
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP] All-of-a-Kind Family  All-of-a-Kind Family is a 1951 children's book by Sydney Taylor about a family of five American Jewish girls growing up on the Lower East Side of New York City in 1912. It was followed by four sequels.
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP]
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP] One Hundred Years of Solitude  One Hundred Years of Solitude (, ) is a 1967 novel by Colombian author Gabriel García Márquez that tells the multi-generational story of the Buendía family, whose patriarch, José Arcadio Buendía, founded the fictitious town of Macondo. The novel is often cited as one of the supreme achievements in world literature.  The magical realist style and thematic substance of "One Hundred Years of Solitude" established it as an important representative novel of the literary Latin American Boom of the 1960s and 1970s, which was stylistically influenced by Modernism (European and North American) and the Cuban "Vanguardia" (Avant-Garde) literary movement.  Since it was first published in May 1967 in Buenos Aires by Editorial Sudamericana, "One Hundred Years of Solitude" has been translated into 46 languages and sold more than 50 million copies. The novel, considered García Márquez's "magnum opus", remains widely acclaimed and is recognized as one of the most significant works both in the Hispanic literary canon and in world literature.<ref name="oedb.org"/><ref name="telegraph.co.uk"/>
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP] Virginia Woolf  Adeline Virginia Woolf (; ; 25 January 1882 28 March 1941) was an English writer, considered one of the most important modernist 20th-century authors and a pioneer in the use of stream of consciousness as a narrative device.  Woolf was born into an affluent household in South Kensington, London, the seventh child of Julia Prinsep Jackson and Leslie Stephen in a blended family of eight which included the modernist painter Vanessa Bell. She was home-schooled in English classics and Victorian literature from a young age. From 1897 to 1901, she attended the Ladies' Department of King's College London, where she studied classics and history and came into contact with early reformers of women's higher education and the women's rights movement.  Encouraged by her father, Woolf began writing professionally in 1900. After her father's death in 1904, the Stephen family moved from Kensington to the more bohemian Bloomsbury, where, in conjunction with the brothers' intellectual friends, they formed the artistic and literary Bloomsbury Group. In 1912, she married Leonard Woolf, and in 1917, the couple founded the Hogarth Press, which published much of her work. They rented a home in Sussex and moved there permanently in 1940. Woolf had romantic relationships with women, including Vita Sackville-West, who also published her books through Hogarth Press. Both women's literature became inspired by their relationship, which lasted until Woolf's death.  During the inter-war period, Woolf was an important part of London's literary and artistic society. In 1915, she had published her first novel, "The Voyage Out", through her half-brother's publishing house, Gerald Duckworth and Company. Her best-known works include the novels "Mrs Dalloway" (1925), "To the Lighthouse" (1927) and "" (1928). She is also known for her essays, including "A Room of One's Own" (1929). Woolf became one of the central subjects of the 1970s movement of feminist criticism and her works have since attracted much attention and widespread commentary for "inspiring feminism". Her works have been translated into more than 50 languages. A large body of literature is dedicated to her life and work, and she has been the subject of plays, novels and films. Woolf is commemorated today by statues, societies dedicated to her work and a building at the University of London.  Throughout her life, Woolf was troubled by mental illness. She was institutionalised several times and attempted suicide at least twice. According to Dalsimer (2004), her illness was characterised by symptoms that would today be diagnosed as bipolar disorder, for which there was no effective treatment during her lifetime. In 1941, at age 59, Woolf died by drowning herself in the River Ouse at Lewes.
Who is the author of One of the Family? [SEP] The Family Circus  The Family Circus (originally The Family Circle, also Family-Go-Round) is a syndicated comic strip created by cartoonist Bil Keane and, since Bil's death in 2011, is currently written, inked, and rendered (colored) by his son, Jeff Keane. The strip generally uses a single captioned panel with a round border, hence the original name of the series, which was changed following objections from the magazine "Family Circle". The series debuted on February 29, 1960, and has been in continuous production ever since. According to publisher King Features Syndicate, it is the most widely syndicated cartoon panel in the world, appearing in 1,500 newspapers. Compilations of "Family Circus" comic strips have sold over 13 million copies worldwide.
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP]  The Culture of Collaboration is a business book by Evan Rosen. It's the first book in The Culture of Collaboration series by Rosen. The second book in the series is The Bounty Effect: 7 Steps to the Culture of Collaboration''. The Culture of Collaboration explores how collaborative culture is changing business models and the nature of work. The author goes inside highly-collaborative organizations including Boeing, Toyota, the Dow Chemical Company, Procter & Gamble, DreamWorks Animation, Industrial Light & Magic, the Myelin Repair Foundation, and the Mayo Clinic. He explains how their methods can create value in almost any industry. The book also describes the trend towards real-time, spontaneous collaboration and the deserialization
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP]  interaction and work. In his preface, Rosen explains that his idea for the book originated when he was invited to the BMW engineering center in Munich during the final design stage for the X5 sports activity vehicle. Among the terms Rosen coins in the book are mirror zones and the ten cultural elements of collaboration. Business leaders who provided back-cover quotes for the book include Jimmy Wales, co-founder of Wikipedia; Scott Cook, founder and Chairman of the Executive Committee of Intuit; Jeff Raikes, CEO of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation and former Microsoft president, Douglas E. Van Houweling, President and CEO of Internet2, and Eugene Kranz, flight director of Apollo 13.
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP] Evan Rosen author of The Culture of Collaboration and The Bounty Effect: 7 Steps to the Culture of Collaboration'' ; Steve Hartman (now at CBS News)
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP]  Evan Rosen is an American author, speaker, business strategist, blogger, and journalist. He is Executive Director of The Culture of Collaboration Institute and Chief Strategist of Impact Video Communication, Inc., which he co-founded. Rosen is the author of The Culture of Collaboration series of books. The first book in the series is The Culture of Collaboration (ISBN: 0-9774617-0-X, ISBN: 978-0-9774617-0-7), a Gold Medal Winner in the Axiom Business Book Awards. The second book in the series is The Bounty Effect: 7 Steps to The Culture of Collaboration'' (ISBN: 978-0977461776). The Culture of Collaboration shows how collaboration creates business value and demonstrates how collaborative culture is changing business models and the nature of work. Terms Rosen
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP]  Curriculum designer and school reformer, Cynthia McCallister, has collaborated with Olson to integrate his theories of literacy and responsibility into a pedagogical program called Learning Cultures, initially implemented in a number of schools in New York City. It incorporates a method of instruction called Cooperative Unison Reading whereby a small group of students read a text together orally and assume responsibility to initiate discussion around questions or points of interest.
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP] Evan Rosen  Evan Rosen is an American author, speaker, business strategist, blogger, and journalist. He is Executive Director of The Culture of Collaboration Institute and Chief Strategist of Impact Video Communication, Inc., which he co-founded.  Rosen is the author of The Culture of Collaboration series of books. The first book in the series is "The Culture of Collaboration" (), a Gold Medal Winner in the Axiom Business Book Awards. The second book in the series is "The Bounty Effect: 7 Steps to The Culture of Collaboration" (). "The Bounty Effect" includes a back-cover endorsement from Steve Wozniak, co-founder of Apple.
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP] Good Faith Collaboration  Good Faith Collaboration: The Culture of Wikipedia is a 2010 book by Joseph M. Reagle Jr. that deals with the topic of Wikipedia and the Wikipedia community. The book was first published on August 27, 2010, through the MIT Press and has a foreword by Lawrence Lessig. The book is an ethnographic study of the history of Wikipedia, its real life and theoretical precursors, and its culture including its consensus and collaborative practices.  The book has been described as a pioneering ethnographic study of the culture of Wikipedia. Reagle's main thesis has been summarized as the argument that "the success of Wikipedia may be less technological than a consequence of the community of Wikipedians and their cultural norms".<ref name=":6" />
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP] Collaboration  Collaboration (from Latin "com-" "with" + "laborare" "to labor", "to work") is the process of two or more people, entities or organizations working together to complete a task or achieve a goal. Collaboration is similar to cooperation. Most collaboration requires leadership, although the form of leadership can be social within a decentralized and egalitarian group. Teams that work collaboratively often access greater resources, recognition and rewards when facing competition for finite resources.  Structured methods of collaboration encourage introspection of behavior and communication.
Who is the author of The Culture of Collaboration? [SEP] Wikipedia  Wikipedia is a multilingual free online encyclopedia written and maintained by a community of volunteers, known as Wikipedians, through open collaboration and using a wiki-based editing system. Wikipedia is the largest and most-read reference work in history. It is consistently one of the 10 most popular websites ranked by Similarweb and formerly Alexa; Wikipedia was ranked the 5th most popular site in the world. It is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, an American non-profit organization funded mainly through donations.  Wikipedia was launched by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger on January 15, 2001. Sanger coined its name as a blend of "wiki" and "encyclopedia". Initially available only in English, versions in other languages were quickly developed. Its combined editions comprise more than articles, attracting around 2billion unique device visits per month and more than 17 million edits per month (1.9edits per second) . In 2006, "Time" magazine stated that the policy of allowing anyone to edit had made Wikipedia the "biggest (and perhaps best) encyclopedia in the world".  Wikipedia has been praised for its enablement of the democratization of knowledge, extent of coverage, unique structure, culture, and reduced degree of commercial bias; but criticism for exhibiting systemic bias, particularly gender bias against women and alleged ideological bias. The reliability of Wikipedia was frequently criticized in the 2000s, but has improved over time, as Wikipedia has been generally praised in the late 2010s and early 2020s. The website's coverage of controversial topics such as American politics and major events like the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russian invasion of Ukraine has received substantial media attention. It has been censored by world governments, ranging from specific pages to the entire site. In April 2018, Facebook and YouTube announced that they would help users detect fake news by suggesting fact-checking links to related Wikipedia articles. Articles on breaking news are often accessed as a source of frequently updated information about those events.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP]  Old Money is a play written by Wendy Wasserstein. The play is "a comedy of manners, one that examines the theme of materialism."
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP]  Old Money premiered in an Off-Broadway Lincoln Center production at the Mitzi Newhouse Theater on December 7, 2000 and closed on January 21, 2001. Directed by Mark Brokaw, the cast featured John Cullum, Mary Beth Hurt, Mark Harelik, Emily Bergl, and Kathryn Meisle. Choreography was by John Carrafa and original music was by Lewis Flinn. Jane Greenwood won the Lucille Lortel Award, Outstanding Costume Design.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP]  The play takes place at a party at the private house of Jeffrey Bernstein on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. It time-travels between the present-day party goers and the "Gilded Era" of the early 20th century.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP]  Nelson W. Aldrich Jr. (born 1935) is an American editor and the author of Old Money: The Mythology of Wealth in America (Alfred A. Knopf, 1988; Allworth Press, 1996) and George, Being George (Random House, 2008), the story of author and socialite George Plimpton told via first hand accounts of many who knew him. Aldrich attended the Fay School, St. Paul's School (New Hampshire), and Harvard College. Aldrich was at one time the Paris editor of The Paris Review and is a frequent contributor to publications such as Vogue and Harper's. He is a great-grandson of Nelson W. Aldrich who was a leader of the Republican Party in the Senate and fundamental in the founding of the Federal Reserve banking system in the United States.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP]  Money attended Eton College and the University of Cambridge (MA; LL.M., 1878). He became a barrister in 1879 and later worked as a solicitor in Surrey. Although often described as a banker, he was too interested in the arts to be a serious banker. He was at one point considered for a partnership in the firm, but this idea was abandoned, as he was thought too unstable in temperament for such a position. In any case, his preferred vocation was as an author. Adopting the pen name of "Mountjoy," he wrote and published at least 23 works between 1896 and 1923. Many of these were collections of poems (see List of works). He also worked for publisher John Lane in London, writing prefaces for, and editing, collections of poems by other authors, including Alfred, Lord Tennyson (Flowers of Parnassus, 27 volumes, 1900&ndash;1906) and Jeremy Taylor (The Marriage Ring, 1907).
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP] Old Money (The Simpsons)  "Old Money" is the seventeenth episode of the second season of the American animated television series "The Simpsons". It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 28, 1991.<ref name="book"/> In the episode, Grampa Simpson falls in love with "Bea" Simmons, another resident at the Springfield Retirement Castle. When she dies and leaves him $106,000, he visits a casino hoping to make more money. After Homer intervenes to stop Grampa from losing all his money gambling, he uses it to renovate the retirement home instead.  The episode was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky and directed by David Silverman. Professor Frink makes his debut in this episode. Audrey Meadows, star of the 1950s TV comedy "The Honeymooners", guest stars as Beatrice "Bea" Simmons, Grampa's girlfriend. It features cultural references to films such as "Tom Jones" and "If I Had a Million", and the "Star Wars" and "Batman" film franchises.  Since airing, the episode has received mixed reviews from television critics. It acquired a Nielsen rating of 12.3 and was the highest-rated show on Fox for the week.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP] Nelson W. Aldrich Jr.  Nelson Wilmarth Aldrich Jr. (April 11, 1935 – March 8, 2022) was an American editor and author. He was noted for writing "Old Money: The Mythology of Wealth in America" (Alfred A. Knopf, 1988; Allworth Press, 1996), "Tommy Hitchcock: An American Hero" (Fleet Street Corporation, 1985), as well as "George, Being George" (Random House, 2008), the story of author and socialite George Plimpton.
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP] Old money  Old money is "the inherited wealth of established upper-class families (i.e. gentry, patriciate)" or "a person, family, or lineage possessing inherited wealth". The term typically describes a social class of the rich who have been able to maintain their wealth over multiple generations, often referring to perceived members of the "de facto" aristocracy in societies that historically lack an officially established aristocratic class (such as the United States).
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP] No Country for Old Men  No Country for Old Men is a 2007 American neo-Western crime thriller film written and directed by Joel and Ethan Coen, based on Cormac McCarthy's 2005 novel of the same name. Starring Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, and Josh Brolin, the film is set in the desert landscape of 1980 West Texas. The film revisits the themes of fate, conscience, and circumstance that the Coen brothers had explored in the films "Blood Simple" (1984), "Raising Arizona" (1987), and "Fargo" (1996). The film follows three main characters: Llewelyn Moss (Brolin), a Vietnam War veteran and welder who stumbles upon a large sum of money in the desert; Anton Chigurh (Bardem), a hitman who is tasked with recovering the money; and Ed Tom Bell (Jones), a local sheriff investigating the crime. The film also stars Kelly Macdonald as Moss's wife Carla Jean, and Woody Harrelson as a bounty hunter seeking Moss and the return of the $2 million.  "No Country for Old Men" premiered in competition at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival on May 19. The film became a commercial success, grossing $171 million worldwide against the budget of $25 million. Critics praised the Coens' direction and screenplay and Bardem's performance, and the film won 76 awards from 109 nominations from multiple organizations; it won four awards at the 80th Academy Awards (including Best Picture), three British Academy Film Awards (BAFTAs), and two Golden Globes. The American Film Institute listed it as an AFI Movie of the Year, and the National Board of Review selected it as the best of 2007.  More critics included "No Country for Old Men" on their 2007 top ten lists than any other film, and many regard it as the Coen brothers' best film. , various sources had recognized it as one of the best films of its decade, and as one of the best films of the 21st century. "The Guardian"s John Patterson wrote: "the Coens' technical abilities, and their feel for a landscape-based Western classicism reminiscent of Anthony Mann and Sam Peckinpah, are matched by few living directors", and Peter Travers of "Rolling Stone" said that it is "a new career peak for the Coen brothers" and "as entertaining as hell".
Who is the author of Old Money? [SEP] No Country for Old Men (novel)  No Country for Old Men is a 2005 novel by American author Cormac McCarthy, who had originally written the story as a screenplay. The story occurs in the vicinity of the Mexico–United States border in 1980 and concerns an illegal drug deal gone awry in the Texas desert back country. Owing to the novel's origins as a screenplay, the novel has a simple writing style different from other Cormac McCarthy novels. The book was adapted into the 2007 film "No Country for Old Men", which won four Academy Awards, including Best Picture.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP]  Carl Abel (25 November 1837 &ndash; 26 November 1906) was a German comparative philologist from Berlin who wrote Linguistic Essays in 1880. Abel also acted as Ilchester lecturer on comparative lexicography at the University of Oxford and as the Berlin correspondent of the Times and the Standard. His 400-page dictionary of Egyptian-Semitic-Indo-European roots appeared in 1886. His essay "On the antithetical meanings of primal words" (Ueber den Gegensinn der Urworte) was discussed by Sigmund Freud in an identically titled piece, which, in turn, was discussed by Jacques Derrida as a precursor to deconstruction's semantic insights. He also translated some of Shakespeare's works into German. He was a son of a successful banker Gerson Abel. Of Jewish descent, he converted to Christianity. Abel died in Wiesbaden. His son Curt Abel-Musgrave (1860-1938) was a writer and translator. His grandson was noted economist Richard Musgrave.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Source:
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP]  Parascandola's two most recognized books are The Development of American Pharmacology: John J. Abel and the Shaping of a Discipline, which was written in 1992 and received the 1994 George Urdang Medal, and Sex, Sin, and Science: A History of Syphilis in America, which was released in 2008 and won the George Pendleton Prize for 2009.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Attribution
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP]  Abel, a Nisga'a poet, was born in British Columbia. Formerly a doctoral student at Simon Fraser University in the Department of English, he is currently a professor at the University of Alberta. Abel's work addresses settler-colonialism directly, often through conceptual poetic approaches to overtly colonial texts (for example, Abel's books cut up, sample, and interrupt the Project Gutenberg archive of Western novels and Marius Barbeau's Totem Poles). His first book of poetry, The Place of Scraps (Talonbooks), used as source text the work of 20th century ethnographer Marius Barbeau. It won the Dorothy Livesay Poetry Prize and was a finalist for the Gerald Lampert Award in 2014. His second book, Un/inhabited, was named one of the best 75 books of 2015 by the CBC. Abel's third and most recent book of poetry, Injun, won the Griffin Poetry Prize in 2017. The poems were based on 91 Western novels written during the past three centuries. Abel's memoir NISHGA was published in 2020, and was shortlisted for the 2021 Hilary Weston Writers' Trust Prize for Nonfiction.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Kane and Abel (novel)  Kane and Abel is a 1979 novel by British author Jeffrey Archer.   Released in the United Kingdom in 1979 and in the United States in February 1980, the book was an international success, selling over one million copies in its first week. It reached No. 1 on the "New York Times" best-seller list. By 2009, it had sold an estimated 34 million copies worldwide.  A sequel, "The Prodigal Daughter", was released in 1982 and features Abel's daughter Florentyna as the protagonist.  In 2003, "Kane and Abel" was listed at number 96 on the BBC's survey The Big Read. "Kane & Abel" is among the top 100 best-selling books in the world, with a similar number of copies sold as "To Kill a Mockingbird" and "Gone with the Wind".
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Robert H. Abel  Robert Halsall Abel (born May 27, 1941 in Painesville, Ohio, died April 14, 2017 in Hadley, Massachusetts) was an American short story writer, and novelist.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Abel Posse  Abel Parentini Posse, (born January 7, 1934 in Córdoba, Argentina), is an Argentine novelist, essayist, poet, career diplomat and politician.  He is the author of fourteen novels, seven collections of essays, an extensive journalistic work, together with a series of short stories and poems. His narrative fiction has received several distinguished awards.   In November 2012 he became a numbered member of the Argentine Academy of Letters.  Abel Parentini Posse carried out uninterrupted diplomatic duties for the Argentine Foreign Service from 1966 until 2004.   Abel Posse is a regular contributor to the liberal-conservative daily La Nación in Buenos Aires, as well as other Argentine dailies (Perfil, La Gaceta de Tucumán) and Spanish papers (ABC, El Mundo and El País). He has also been editor in chief of the Revista Argentina de Estudios Estratégicos (Argentine Journal of Strategic Studies). His journalistic publications include some 400 articles, many of which have been published in his collection of socio-political essays, such as, Argentina, el gran viraje (2000), El eclipse argentino.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Elie Abel  Elie Abel (October 17, 1920 – July 22, 2004) was a Canadian-American journalist, author and academic.
Who is the author of Abel? [SEP] Abel Bowen  Abel Bowen (1790-1850) was an engraver, publisher, and author in early 19th-century Boston, Massachusetts.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]  Daniel Samuel Senor (born November 6, 1971) is an American-Canadian columnist, writer, and political adviser. He was chief spokesman for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq and senior foreign policy adviser to U.S. presidential candidate Mitt Romney during the 2012 election campaign. A frequent news commentator and contributor to The Wall Street Journal, he is co-author of the book Start-up Nation: The Story of Israel's Economic Miracle (2009). He is married to television news personality Campbell Brown.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]  is a study on the strength of the Orizabeña industry and the possibilities that the region offered for the entrepreneur. In that 1943, without neglecting his beloved magazine, he wrote, edited and published the work that was to give him definitive renown as a writer and make his beloved city known by the poetic name with which he baptized it: "Nuestra Señora de los Puentes." The book would receive major public acclaim. Exélsior published the declarations of the Engineer José Luis Osorio Mondragón (Director of the Instituto de Geografía e Historia de la UNAM y autor de textos de geografía humana) who referred to
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]  of the State of Veracruz, to the Distinguished Veracruz Writer Aurelio Ortega, as a tribute to the warm praise that has been received by the press on the occasion of the publication of his book titled, "Nuestra Señora de los Puentes." The official Speaker at the event was Dr. Salvador Ojeda Ruvira. In 1955 Don Aurelio took to writing "Pluviosilla Señorial y Legendaria," part 2 of Nuestra Señora de los Puentes." The praises of the Mexican intelligentsia did not wait, and among others, the study carried out by the journalist, Writer and Teacher of Journalists, Don Fernando Mota, which among other phrases published in
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]  The Spanish author, Pedro Calderón de la Barca, took the story as the basis of a drama: El mágico prodigioso. In 2005, American author Tono Rondone published a novel, The Martyrs, which is a continuation of this tradition. The Great Book of Saint Cyprian is full of prayers and spells, and is widely sold in the Portuguese- and Spanish-speaking world. Cyprianus is a popular name for a grimoire in Scandinavian folklore.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]  In 2017 he obtained the award Premio Biblioteca Breve with his latest novel: A cielo abierto. A narrative of the marvelous pilot adventures of the  very well-known The Little Prince author: Antoine de Saint-Exupéry.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP] The Saint (Simon Templar)  The Saint is the nickname of the fictional character Simon Templar, featured in a series of novels and short stories by Leslie Charteris published between 1928 and 1963. After that date, other authors collaborated with Charteris on books until 1983; two additional works produced without Charteris's participation were published in 1997. The character has also been portrayed in motion pictures, radio dramas, comic strips, comic books and three television series.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP] List of works by Leslie Charteris  Leslie Charteris (born Leslie Charles Bowyer Yin; 1907–1993) was a British-American writer best known for his series on stories featuring Simon Templar, also known as The Saint. Born in Singapore to a Chinese father, Suat Yin Chwan, and his English wife, Lydia ( Bowyer), Charteris travelled extensively with his family until beginning his education in England in 1919.<ref name="SFP: Yin" /> In 1925 he enrolled at King's College, Cambridge, but left after a year in order to become a writer; to support himself, he worked as a goldminer, bartender, professional bridge player and temporary policeman. In October 1926 he changed his name by deed poll to Leslie Charles Bowyer Charteris-Ian, and professionally used the shorter version, Leslie Charteris.  Charteris's first novel, "X Esquire", which he later described as "an appallingly bad book", was published in 1927; his second novel—"The White Rider", published in 1928—is "overwritten and poorly constructed", according to his biographer Joan DelFattore. In his third novel, "Meet the Tiger" (1928), he introduced the character of Simon Templar, a debonair gentleman crook who goes by the "", The Saint.  Charteris continued writing "Saint" books and the series gained in popularity because of its "mix of light humour, sophisticated settings, and story-line emphasising the role of a crusader tackling the forces of evil", which had "special appeal in the depression". Charteris moved to the United States in 1932 and soon began writing screenplays, the first of which resulted in "Midnight Club", released in 1933.<ref name="Gage CA" />  Charteris also worked on three books of non-fiction and an introduction to the 1980 re-issue of "The Saint Meets the Tiger". The works consisted of a translation from Spanish to English of the autobiography of the bullfighter Juan Belmonte, a language guide to Spanish, and a guide to Paleneo, a wordless, pictorial sign language invented by Charteris. He died in Windsor, Berkshire, in April 1993.
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP]
Who is the author of Señor Saint? [SEP] Saint Joseph  Joseph (; ) was a 1st-century Jewish man of Nazareth who, according to the canonical Gospels, was married to Mary, the mother of Jesus, and was the legal father of Jesus. The Gospels also name some brothers of Jesus who may have been: (1) the sons of Mary, the mother of Jesus, and Joseph; (2) sons of Mary, the wife of Clopas and sister of Mary the mother of Jesus; or (3) sons of Joseph by a former marriage.  Joseph is venerated as Saint Joseph in the Catholic Church, Orthodox Church, Oriental Orthodox Church and Anglicanism. His feast day is observed by some Lutherans. In Catholic traditions, Joseph is regarded as the patron saint of workers and is associated with various feast days. The month of March is dedicated to Saint Joseph. Pope Pius IX declared him to be both the patron and the protector of the Catholic Church, in addition to his patronages of the sick and of a happy death, due to the belief that he died in the presence of Jesus and Mary. Joseph has become patron of various dioceses and places. Being a patron saint of the virgins, too, he is venerated as "most chaste". A specific veneration is tributed to the most chaste and pure heart of Saint Joseph.  Several venerated images of Saint Joseph have been granted a decree of canonical coronation by a pontiff. Religious iconography often depicts him with lilies or spikenard. With the present-day growth of Mariology, the theological field of Josephology has also grown and since the 1950s centers for studying it have been formed.
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP]   Het uur tussen hond en wolf is a novel by Dutch author Maarten 't Hart. It was first published in 1987.
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP]  Wim Gijsen was one of the Netherlands' most successful writers of modern science fiction and fantasy books. Previously he had been known as a writer of prose, poems, children's books and various works on meditation, vegetarianism and yoga, and translated a book on Tarot by Eden Gray. In 1980 he published his first science fiction novel De Eersten Van Rissan (The First Ones of Rissan). One year later the second part of the series was released: De Koningen Van Weleer (The Kings of the Past). He also wrote another science fiction series: Iskander de Dromendief (Iskander the Dream Thief) and Het Huis van de Wolf (The House of the Wolf). Until his death, he continued writing fantasy literature, with the Deirdre-trilogy being his most popular work today. Gijsen repeatedly used a special theme in his books: A distant planet, where humans coming from Earth have settled down centuries ago and have forgotten about their technological past, now live in a culture that resembles Earth's Middle Ages, with only few people who are aware of technology and who do not share the belief in magic and superstition that the human society has adopted.
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP]  Tjibbe Veldkamp (born 19 October 1962) is a Dutch author of children's books. Veldkamp was born in Groningen and studied psychology at the University of Groningen. He became a scientist In 1988 someone suggested him to write children's books. In 1990 he turned to writing children's books; his first book, Een ober van niks, was published in 1992. He made this in collaboration with illustrator Philip Hopman. He also works with illustrator Kees De Boer. Since then, he combines writing books with writing for the Dutch Donald Duck magazine. Since 2001 he has been a full-time writer and translator. In 2009 he was awarded a Silver Griffel for Tiffany Dop, and in 2010 he was asked to produce the 2011 Kinderboekenweekgeschenk. In 2012, he translated Dav Pilkey's Captain Underpants series into Dutch. Currently Tjibbe Veldkamp lives in Groningen.
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP]   Aristide von Bienefeldt (24 October 1959, Rozenburg – 15 January 2016) was the pen name of the Dutch novelist Rijk de Jong. Von Bienefeldt's first novel - Bekentenissen van een Stamhouder ("Confessions of a Son and Heir") - was both praised and criticized by the Dutch and the Flemish press because of its explicit homosexual passages ("Unquestionably written by a master’s hand", Haarlems Dagblad, "His style is unbelievably good for a débutant", Nederlands Dagblad, "A respectable publishing house wouldn’t have bothered to send this piece of trash back to its owner", De Twentsche Courant, "It is a great pleasure to read Confessions, if it were only for the comical predictability that each man who crosses the protagonist’s path, ends up having sex with him", NRC Handelsblad). Confessions is
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP]  2009 Libris Prize; Verhulst wrote the 2015 Boekenweekgeschenk, De zomer hou je ook niet tegen. His 2015 novel Bloedboek ("Bloodbook"), a retelling of the Pentateuch, was praised in De Morgen for its amusement value; in the Dutch daily Trouw it was called a "gruesome bible", with the interviewer questioning Verhulst about his use of terms such as "Final solution" in retelling the first five books of the bible. Verhulst responded that he used the "worldwide language of genocide". Verhulst publishes on a regular basis in the literary journals Underground, Nieuw Wereldtijdschrift and De Brakke Hond. For Underground he is also an editor. He lives and works in Huccorgne.
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP] Het uur tussen hond en wolf
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP] Maarten 't Hart  Maarten 't Hart (born 25 November 1944 in Maassluis) is a Dutch writer. Trained as a biologist in zoology and ethology at the Leiden University, he taught that subject before becoming a full-time writer in the 1980s, having made his debut as a novelist in 1971 under the name Martin Hart with "Stenen voor een ransuil" ("Stones for a Long-Eared Owl").  He is the author of many novels, including "Het Woeden der Gehele Wereld" and "De kroongetuige". His books have been translated into a number of European languages, and he is especially popular in Germany. Three of his novels, " (A Flight of Curlews", trans. 1986), "De aansprekers (Bearers of Bad Tidings", trans. 1983), and " (The Sundial", trans. 2004) have appeared in English, as have a few of his short stories.  The themes of his novels, which often have an autobiographical component, include: His writings are full of detailed descriptions of nature (e.g. the weather, insects, plants) and show his passionate love for classical music (especially the music of the composers Bach, Mozart and Schubert).  't Hart is supporter of the Party for Animals, and, in 2004, agreed with the party to underline that by becoming a candidate in the European elections. However, for this he needed an official identity document, and he has no driving licence, and had neither a passport nor another identity document (he had not been abroad for 10 years), and, for reasons of principle, did not want to get one for this purpose. He is also a prominent radio and television personality, and a regular contributor to daily newspapers.  He currently lives in Warmond, close to Leiden, with his wife. His chief pastimes are music – he plays the piano and the organ – and reading. He says he reads six books a week, in Dutch, English, German, and French. He knows very little about films and rarely watches one. He does not want to be involved in films based on his books. He was, however, "rat consultant" to Werner Herzog for the film "Nosferatu the Vampyre". This turned out to be a disagreeable experience about which he wrote a story, "Ongewenste zeereis", that appeared in 2004 in "Granta" under the title "Rats".
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP] Vlag en Wimpel  In the Netherlands, the award is an honourable mention awarded by either the jury of the Gouden Griffel and Zilveren Griffel awards (for Dutch-language children's literature) or the jury of the Gouden Penseel and Zilveren Penseel awards (for illustrations in children's literature). The award is organised by the .
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP] more than 200.000 copies of these books. In cooperation with Quality Meat Scotland, the organisation for the promotion of Scottish Meat, he wrote several articles in Dutch and Belgian magazines about Scottish and British topics. Stefaan Van Laere Stefaan Van Laere (born 11 November 1963, in Wetteren) is a Belgian writer who writes and publishes in Dutch. He is the author of several books for children and adults, both fiction and non-fiction. He wrote a tango book with tango teacher Pol Van Assche of Polariteit, two children's books ("De Koffer" and "Sciencefiction"), six thrillers, several restaurant guides and four books
Who is the author of Het uur tussen hond en wolf? [SEP] ("The Kings of the Past"). He also wrote another science fiction series: "Iskander de Dromendief" ("Iskander the Dream Thief") and "Het Huis van de Wolf" ("The House of the Wolf"). Until his death, he continued writing fantasy literature, with the "Deirdre"-trilogy being his most popular work today. Gijsen repeatedly used a special theme in his books: A distant planet, where humans coming from Earth have settled down centuries ago and have forgotten about their technological past, now live in a culture that resembles Earth's Middle Ages, with only few people who are aware of technology and who do not share
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP]  Eclipse (2004) is an original novel written by James Swallow and based on the long-running British science fiction comic strip Judge Dredd. It is Swallow's first Judge Dredd novel.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP]  Eclipse of the Sun is the debut novel by English author Phil Whitaker. It won the John Llewellyn Rhys Prize in 1997, a Betty Trask Award in 1998, and was shortlisted for the 1997 Whitbread First Novel Award.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP]  Eclipse is the debut novel of Dalton Trumbo first published in 1935. The novel is about a town and its people written in the social realist style. The town, which Trumbo calls "Shale City," was modeled on Grand Junction, Colorado, where Trumbo lived from 1908 until he left for the University of Colorado in 1924. Trumbo's daughter Nikola writes in a foreword to a new edition of Eclipse that the character John Abbott was a substitute for Trumbo's father and "was based on the real-life Grand Junction citizen W.J. Moyer, (who) was also destroyed (as his father had been) by the depression." The new edition, published by the Mesa County Public Library Foundation in 2005, includes a list that matches Grand Junction residents to characters in the book and acknowledges that the book's sometimes harsh portrayal of Grand Junction made it controversial in Trumbo's hometown.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP]  Eclipse is a 2000 novel by John Banville. Its dense lyrical style and unorthodox structure have prompted some to describe it as more prose poem than novel. Along with Shroud and Ancient Light, it comprises a trilogy concerning actor Alexander Cleave and his estranged daughter Cass.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP]  The Eclipse is an autobiographical vignette by James Fenimore Cooper that was written between 1833 and 1838, recounting his own experience witnessing a total solar eclipse in Cooperstown on the morning of June 16, 1806. It was published posthumously in the September 1869 issue of Putnam's Monthly Magazine. Susan Fenimore Cooper, the author's daughter, found it among his papers.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP] Eclipse (Meyer novel)  Eclipse (stylized as eclipse) is the third novel in the "Twilight" Saga by Stephenie Meyer. It continues the story of Bella Swan and her vampire love, Edward Cullen. The novel explores Bella's compromise between her love for Edward and her friendship with shape-shifter Jacob Black, along with her dilemma of leaving her mortality behind in a terrorized atmosphere, a result of mysterious vampire attacks in Seattle.  "Eclipse" is preceded by "New Moon" and followed by "Breaking Dawn". The book was released on August 7, 2007, with an initial print run of one million copies, and sold more than 150,000 copies in the first 24 hours alone. "Eclipse" was the fourth bestselling book of 2008, only behind "Twilight", "New Moon", and "Breaking Dawn". A was released on June 30, 2010.  "Eclipse" received generally positive reviews. Critics noted its exploration of more mature themes than those of its predecessors while praising the novel's love triangle and plotting.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP] Eclipse (software)  Eclipse is an integrated development environment (IDE) used in computer programming. It contains a base workspace and an extensible plug-in system for customizing the environment. It is the second-most-popular IDE for Java development, and, until 2016, was the most popular. Eclipse is written mostly in Java and its primary use is for developing Java applications, but it may also be used to develop applications in other programming languages via plug-ins, including Ada, ABAP, C, C++, C#, Clojure, COBOL, D, Erlang, Fortran, Groovy, Haskell, JavaScript, Julia, Lasso, Lua, NATURAL, Perl, PHP, Prolog, Python, R, Ruby (including Ruby on Rails framework), Rust, Scala, and Scheme. It can also be used to develop documents with LaTeX (via a TeXlipse plug-in) and packages for the software Mathematica. Development environments include the Eclipse Java development tools (JDT) for Java and Scala, Eclipse CDT for C/C++, and Eclipse PDT for PHP, among others.  The initial codebase originated from IBM VisualAge. The Eclipse software development kit (SDK), which includes the Java development tools, is meant for Java developers. Users can extend its abilities by installing plug-ins written for the Eclipse Platform, such as development toolkits for other programming languages, and can write and contribute their own plug-in modules. Since the introduction of the OSGi implementation (Equinox) in version 3 of Eclipse, plug-ins can be plugged-stopped dynamically and are termed (OSGI) bundles.  Eclipse software development kit (SDK) is free and open-source software, released under the terms of the Eclipse Public License, although it is incompatible with the GNU General Public License. It was one of the first IDEs to run under GNU Classpath and it runs without problems under IcedTea.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP] The Twilight Saga: Eclipse  The Twilight Saga: Eclipse (or simply Eclipse) is a 2010 American romantic fantasy film directed by David Slade from a screenplay by Melissa Rosenberg, based on the 2007 novel "Eclipse" by Stephenie Meyer. The sequel to "" (2009), it is the third installment in "The Twilight Saga" film series. The film stars Kristen Stewart, Robert Pattinson, and Taylor Lautner, reprising their roles as Bella Swan, Edward Cullen, and Jacob Black, respectively. Bryce Dallas Howard joins the cast as returning character Victoria, who was previously portrayed by Rachelle Lefevre in the first two films.  Summit Entertainment announced it had greenlit the film on February 20, 2009. Principal photography began on August 17, in Vancouver, Canada, and finished on October 31, with post-production beginning early the following month.  "The Twilight Saga: Eclipse" premiered in Los Angeles on June 24, and was theatrically released in the United States on June 30, by Summit Entertainment. It became the first and only "The Twilight Saga" film to be released in IMAX. Despite receiving mixed reviews from critics, the film grosssed over $698 million worldwide, becoming the sixth-highest-grossing film of 2010. It held the record for biggest midnight opening in the United States and Canada, grossing $30.1 million, beating "The Twilight Saga: New Moon" until it was surpassed by "Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows – Part 2" (2011). The film then scored the biggest Wednesday opening in the United States and Canada with $68.5 million, beating "" (2009). "The Twilight Saga: Eclipse" has also become the film with the widest independent release, beating "The Twilight Saga: New Moon", and the widest domestic release, playing in 4,416 theaters, beating "Iron Man 2" (2010) until it was surpassed by "Despicable Me 2" (2013).  The film received two sequels, "" and "", in 2011 and 2012, respectively.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP] Total Eclipse of the Heart  "Total Eclipse of the Heart" is a song recorded by Welsh singer Bonnie Tyler. It was written and produced by Jim Steinman, and released on Tyler's fifth studio album, "Faster Than the Speed of Night" (1983). The song was released as a single by CBS/Columbia in 1983.  The song became Tyler's biggest career hit, topping the UK Singles Chart, and becoming the fifth-best-selling single in 1983 in the United Kingdom. In the United States, the single spent four weeks at the top of the charts, keeping another Steinman penned song "Making Love Out of Nothing at All" by Air Supply from reaching the top spot (a song Tyler would later cover in 1995), and it was "Billboard"'s number-six song of the year for 1983. The song was nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance.  Worldwide, the single has sales in excess of 6 million copies and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for sales of over 1 million copies after its release, updated to platinum in 2001 when the certification threshold changed. In 2015, the song was voted by the British public as the nation's third favourite 1980s number one in a poll for ITV.
Who is the author of Eclipse? [SEP] Eclipse Public License  The Eclipse Public License (EPL) is a free and open source software license most notably used for the Eclipse IDE and other projects by the Eclipse Foundation. It replaces the Common Public License (CPL) and removes certain terms relating to litigations related to patents.  The Eclipse Public License is designed to be a business-friendly free software license, and features weaker copyleft provisions than licenses such as the GNU General Public License (GPL). The receiver of EPL-licensed programs can use, modify, copy and distribute the work and modified versions, in some cases being obligated to release their own changes.  The EPL is listed as a free software license by the Free Software Foundation (FSF) and approved by the Open Source Initiative (OSI).<ref name="FSFLicenseList"/>  Discussion of a new version of the EPL began in May 2013. Version2.0 was announced on 24August 2017.<ref name="milinkovich-2017"/>  On January 20, 2021, the license steward for the license was changed from Eclipse.org Foundation, Inc. (Delaware, USA) to Eclipse Foundation AISBL (Brussels, Belgium).
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP]  The Valley is the first novel by Barry Pilton, published in 2005 by Bloomsbury. It is a humorous account of the effect of outsiders on the rural status quo in a fictional mid-Wales valley during the 1980s and is being adapted for television.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP]  The Valley of Decision is an historical novel by the American writer Marcia Davenport (1903&ndash;1996). It was a national bestseller in the 1940s and adapted into a film, The Valley of Decision, in 1945. During the late 1930s Davenport, best known for her biography of Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, spent several years in Pittsburgh, her imagination caught by the drama of American industry. In 1942, Charles Scribner's Sons published her Pittsburgh novel, The Valley of Decision. It was an instant success, and its story of four generations of the Scott family—owners and operators of a Pittsburgh iron and steel works.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP]  Through the Valley is a novel by Robert Henriques, published in 1950, about the decline of an English country house, Neapcaster Park, before and after World War II. The book follows the growing up of three boys: Geoff, son of the estate manager Richard Greenley who grows up in the lodge and goes out hunting with the estate family; Ralph, son of General Harry Meredith, the owner of the estate; and David son of Daniel Levine, an intelligent but physically clumsy Jew.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP]  In the Valley (1890) is a historical novel by Anglo-American novelist Harold Frederic. It is set in the United States in the Mohawk Valley and in Albany, New York, from 1757 to 1777.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] The Valley of the Moon (1966)
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] Sally Wainwright  Sally Anne Wainwright (born 1963) is an English television writer, producer, and director from Yorkshire. Early in her career, Wainwright worked as a playwright, and as a scriptwriter on the long-running radio serial drama "The Archers". In the 1990s, Wainwright began her television career, and, in 2000, created her first original drama series "At Home with the Braithwaites" (2000–2003).  She won the Royal Television Society's Writer of the Year Award for the 2009 mini-series "Unforgiven". Wainwright is known for her creation of the ITV drama series "Scott & Bailey" (2011–2016"), Last Tango in Halifax" (2012-2020), and "Happy Valley" (2014–present). "Last Tango in Halifax" won the British Academy Television Award for Best Drama Series in 2013, whilst "Happy Valley" won the same award in both 2015 and 2017.  Wainwright is the creator of the 2019 HBO and BBC One television series "Gentleman Jack" starring Suranne Jones as Anne Lister and Sophie Rundle as Ann Walker.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] Sweet Valley High  Sweet Valley High is a series of young adult novels attributed to American author Francine Pascal, who presided over a team of ghostwriters to produce the series. The books chronicle the lives of identical twins Jessica and Elizabeth Wakefield, who live in the fictional Sweet Valley, California, a suburb near Los Angeles. The twins and their friends attend Sweet Valley High.  The series began in 1983, and concluded twenty years later after the publication of 181 books. The books are generally classified as young adult or children's fiction and belong mostly to the genre of soap opera, romance novel or fantasy-adventure. The series quickly gained popularity and spawned several spin-off series, including "Sweet Valley Senior Year" and "Sweet Valley University", as well as a television adaptation. In July 2017, a film adaptation was also announced.  The novels "Sweet Valley Confidential" and "The Sweet Life", which follow the characters as adults, were published in 2011 and 2012.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup  Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup is a nonfiction book by journalist John Carreyrou, released May 21, 2018. It covers the rise and fall of Theranos, the multibillion-dollar biotech startup headed by Elizabeth Holmes.<ref name="Lowenstein"/> The book received critical acclaim, winning the 2018 "Financial Times" and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award.  In 2016, a film adaptation was announced, to star Jennifer Lawrence, to be written by Vanessa Taylor and to be directed by Adam McKay.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] The Valley of Fear  The Valley of Fear is the fourth and final Sherlock Holmes novel by British writer Arthur Conan Doyle. It is loosely based on the Molly Maguires and Pinkerton agent James McParland. The story was first published in the "Strand Magazine" between September 1914 and May 1915. The first book edition was copyrighted in 1914, and it was first published by George H. Doran Company in New York on 27 February 1915, and illustrated by Arthur I. Keller.
Who is the author of The Valley? [SEP] Valley of the Dolls (novel)  Valley of the Dolls is the first novel by American writer Jacqueline Susann. Published in 1966, the book was the biggest selling novel of its year.
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] Irdeto: Facing the future through scenario planning
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] Thinking about the Future: Guidelines for Strategic Foresight, 2nd edition (co-author: Peter C. Bishop), 2015, 2007, ISBN: 978-0996773409 (2nd) ISBN: 978-0978931704 (1st) ; Teaching about the Future,(co-author: Peter C. Bishop), 2012, ISBN: 978-0230363496 - Received the 2014 Association of Professional Futurists Most Significant Futures Work Award for Methods and Practice. ; ConsumerShift: How Changing Values Are Reshaping the Consumer Landscape, 2011, ISBN: 978-1614660033 ; 2025: Science and Technology Reshapes US and Global Society, (co-author: Joseph F Coates, John Mahaffie), 1997, ISBN: 978-1886939097 ; Managing Your Future as an Association: Thinking about Trends and Working with Their Consequences, (co-author: Jennifer Jarrett, Joseph F Coates, John Mahaffie), 1994,ISBN: 978-0880340847 A. Hines, A. & J. Gold, “An organizational futurist role
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] How to Future (with Scott Smith), 2020.
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] "I've Got to Face the Future" (with Jack Gould)
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP]  What Matters (McKinsey & Company). He is a proponent of scenario planning and an advocate of preferred futures, believing it is incumbent upon organisations to create compelling visions of the future and work towards their realisation. In addition to writing, Watson works with the Technology Foresight Practice at Imperial College London and Lectures at London Business School and the King's Fund. He is also a network member of Stratforma and has worked with the Strategic Trends Unit at the UK Ministry of Defence, the RAND Corporation, CSIRO, the Cabinet Office and the Departments of Education in the UK and Australia.
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP]
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP]
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] Faith in the Future (Louis Tomlinson album)  Faith in the Future is the second studio album by English singer and songwriter Louis Tomlinson. It was released on 11 November 2022 independently through BMG. Tomlinson announced the album's release date, track listing and album artwork on 31 August 2022. The album was supported by three singles: "Bigger Than Me", "Out of My System" and "Silver Tongues". The album debuted at No. 1 in the UK making it his first in the country.
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] The End of History and the Last Man  The End of History and the Last Man is a 1992 book of political philosophy by American political scientist Francis Fukuyama which argues that with the ascendancy of Western liberal democracy—which occurred after the Cold War (1945–1991) and the dissolution of the Soviet Union (1991)—humanity has reached "not just... the passing of a particular period of post-war history, but the end of history as such: That is, the end-point of mankind's ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government."
Who is the author of Facing the Future? [SEP] Michael Young, Baron Young of Dartington  Michael Dunlop Young, Baron Young of Dartington  (9 August 1915 – 14 January 2002), was a British sociologist, social activist and politician who coined the term "meritocracy". He was an urbanist of different dimensions such as academic researcher, polemicist and institution-builder.  During an active life he was instrumental in shaping Labour Party thinking. When secretary of the policy committee of the Labour Party, he was responsible for drafting "Let Us Face the Future", Labour's manifesto for the 1945 general election, was a leading protagonist on social reform, and founded or helped found a number of socially useful organisations. These include the Consumers' Association, "Which?" magazine, the National Consumer Council, the Open University, the Institute for Community Studies, the National Extension College, the Open College of the Arts and Language Line, a telephone-interpreting business.
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP]  The Squirrel Wife is the title of a children's fairy tale written by Philippa Pearce and first illustrated by  Derek Collard. This original fairy tale published by Longman Young in 1971 has subsequently  been republished in Middlesex: New York City; Paris and Madrid. Bill Geldart is responsible for illustrating publications made between 1983–1992  and  Wayne Anderson most recently illustrated both New York and London publications in 2007. The squirrel wife is also included within The Faber book of Modern Fairy Tales.
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP] Gunhild (1907) (contrasting Norwegian and American values) ; The Squirrel-Cage (1912) (the first of her treatments of marriage) ; The Bent Twig (1915) ; The Real Motive (1916). ; Fellow Captains (1916) (with Sarah N. Cleghorn) ; Understood Betsy (1917) ; Home Fires in France (1918) ; The Day of Glory (1919) ; The Brimming Cup (1919) ; Rough-Hewn (1922) ; The Home-Maker (1924) (reprinted by [Persephone Books in 1999) ; Her Son's Wife (1926) ; The Deepening Stream (1930) ; Bonfire (1933) ; Seasoned Timber (1939)
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP]  inspired a film, a stage play and three TV series. It won the annual Carnegie Medal and for the 70th anniversary celebration in 2007, a panel named it one of the top ten Medal-winning works, which composed the ballot for a public election of the nation's favourite, in which Tom's Midnight Garden finished second in the vote, between two books that were about 40 years younger. Pearce wrote over 30 books, including A Dog So Small (1962), The Squirrel Wife (1971), The Battle of Bubble and Squeak (1978) and The Way To Sattin Shore (1983). The Shadow Cage and other tales of the supernatural (1977), Bubble and Squeak,
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP]  Craig Stone (born 24 August 1980) is a British author. He left a job in the city to live homeless in a park,     during which time he wrote his first book, The Squirrel that Dreamt of Madness, a semi-autobiographical account of his time in the park. He later wrote Life Knocks, Deep in the Bin of Bob and How to Hide from Humans, and is the author of the blog, Thought Scratchings, shortlisted for the 2014 UK Blog Awards. His second novel Life Knocks was shortlisted for the Dundee International Book Prize.
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP]  The wife of George. She and George find Squirrel and Bone on the side of the highway and take them home. Marcy wants to keep the dogs, and George doesn't allow her to. Marcy feeds them and cleans up their messes, hoping that they will become tame pets.
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP] The Squirrel Wife  The Squirrel Wife is the title of a children's fairy tale written by Philippa Pearce and first illustrated by Derek Collard. This original fairy tale published by Longman Young in 1971 has subsequently been republished in Middlesex: New York City; Paris and Madrid. Bill Geldart is responsible for illustrating publications made between 1983–1992 and Wayne Anderson most recently illustrated both New York and London publications in 2007. The squirrel wife is also included within "The Faber book of Modern Fairy Tales".
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP] The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin  The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin is a children's book written and illustrated by Beatrix Potter and first published by Frederick Warne & Co. in August 1903. The story is about an impertinent red squirrel named Nutkin and his narrow escape from an owl called Old Brown. The book followed Potter's hugely successful "The Tale of Peter Rabbit", and was an instant hit. The now-familiar endpapers of the Peter Rabbit series were introduced in the book.  Squirrel Nutkin had its origins in a story and picture letter Potter sent Norah Moore, the daughter of her former governess, Annie Carter Moore. The background illustrations were modelled on Derwentwater and St. Herbert's Island in the Lake District.  One commentator has likened Squirrel Nutkin's impertinent behaviour to that of the rebellious working-class of Potter's own day, and another commentator has noted the tale's similarities to "pourquoi" tales and folk tales in its explanations of Squirrel Nutkin's short tail and characteristics of squirrel behaviour. An abbreviated version of the tale appeared as a segment in the 1971 ballet film, "The Tales of Beatrix Potter".
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP] The Tale of Timmy Tiptoes  The Tale of Timmy Tiptoes is a children's book written and illustrated by Beatrix Potter, and published by Frederick Warne & Co. in October 1911. Timmy Tiptoes is a squirrel believed to be a nut-thief by his fellows, and imprisoned by them in a hollow tree with the expectation that he will confess under confinement. Timmy is tended by Chippy Hackee, a friendly, mischievous chipmunk who has run away from his wife and is camping-out in the tree. Chippy urges the prisoner to eat the nuts stored in the tree, and Timmy does so but grows so fat he cannot escape the tree. He regains his freedom when a storm topples part of the tree. The tale contrasts the harmonious marriage of its title character with the less than harmonious marriage of the chipmunk.  The book sold well at release, but is now considered one of Potter's weakest productions. Potter never observed the tale's indigenous North American mammals in nature, and, as a result, her depictions are thought stiff and unnatural. Other elements in the story have come under fire: the rhymes, for example, reveal nothing about the characters nor do they provide an amusing game for the child reader in the manner of the rhymes in "The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin". The storm in the finale is viewed as a weak plot device introduced solely to hurry the tale to its conclusion, and the marriage of the chipmunks has been described as "abrasive and shocking" and an impediment to the flow of the tale.  The tale's disappointing qualities have been ascribed to Potter's growing lack of interest in writing for children, to pressure from her publisher for yet another book, and to Potter's desire to exploit the lucrative American market. Potter's artistically successful books were written for specific children; "Timmy Tiptoes" however was composed for Potter's amorphous, ill-defined American fanbase. By 1911, the demands of her aging parents and the business operations at her working farm, Hill Top, occupied much of Potter's time and attention to the exclusion of nearly everything else, and are accounted as some of the reasons for the author's declining artistry and her lack of interest in producing children's books.  Characters from the tale have been reproduced as porcelain figurines, enamelled boxes, music boxes, and various ornaments by Beswick Pottery, Crummles, Schmid, and ANRI.
Who is the author of The Squirrel Wife? [SEP] Thornton Burgess  Thornton Waldo Burgess (January 17, 1874 – June 5, 1965) was an American conservationist and author of children's stories. He was sometimes known as the Bedtime Story-Man, after his newspaper column "Bedtime Stories". By the time he retired, he had written more than 170 books and 15,000 stories for the daily newspaper column.
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]  Moving Day is a 2012 Canadian comedy film directed by Mike Clattenburg and written by Clattenburg and Mike O'Neill. The film centres on four men working for a moving company in Dartmouth, Nova Scotia whose personal lives are as messy as their professional ones. The film's cast includes Gabriel Hogan, Bill Carr, Gerry Dee, Victor Garber, Jonny Harris, Charlie Murphy, Cathy Jones, Shauna MacDonald, Gabrielle Miller, Will Sasso, Don Bottomley, David Rossetti and Jordan Poole.
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]  In her 1832 book Domestic Manners of Americans, English writer Frances Trollope, mother of novelist Anthony Trollope, described the city on Moving Day: "On the 1st of May the city of New York has the appearance of sending off a population flying from the plague, or of a town which had surrendered on condition of carrying away all their goods and chattels. Rich furniture and ragged furniture, carts, wagons, and drays, ropes, canvas, and straw, packers, porters, and draymen, white, yellow, and black, occupy the streets from east to west, from north to south, on this day. Every one I spoke to on
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]  Zaslow's Wall Street Journal column, "Moving On", as well as his numerous books, focused on life transitions. In September 2007, after he attended the final lecture of Carnegie Mellon University Professor Randy Pausch, he collaborated with Pausch on writing The Last Lecture, released in 2008. The book by Pausch and Zaslow, translated into 48 languages, was a #1 New York Times best-seller, spending more than 110 weeks on the list. Media coverage included The Oprah Winfrey Show and an ABC special hosted by Diane Sawyer. More than five million copies of the book are in print in the U.S. The Girls from Ames is a
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP] "Moving Day" - 1978, watercolor and pencil on paper, Smithsonian American Art Museum
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]  Moving Day is a Canadian comedy short film, directed by Chris Deacon and released in 1998. The film stars Michael McMurtry and Brigitte Gall as Scott and Amy, a couple who are moving in together for the first time, but must cope with relationship anxieties when the process reveals aspects of their personalities that they didn't previously know about each other. The film premiered at the 1998 Toronto International Film Festival. It was subsequently broadcast on television, as part of Showcase's "Calling Card" night of short films by emerging directors in 1998, and as an episode of WTN's anthology series A Change of View in 1999. The Globe and Mail's television critic John Doyle favourably reviewed the film, commenting that "I could see this becoming, say, a six-part sitcom (without a laugh track) that gently mocks young urban couples." The film won the Genie Award for Best Live Action Short Drama at the 20th Genie Awards. It received three Canadian Comedy Award nominations at the 1st Canadian Comedy Awards, for Best Performance by an Actress in a Film (Gall), Best Direction in a Film (Deacon) and Best Writing in a Film (Deacon).
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP] Moving Day (poetry collection)  Moving Day is a young adult book of poetry by Ralph Fletcher, illustrated by Jennifer Emery. It was first published in 2006.
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP]
Who is the author of Moving Day? [SEP] Family Moving Day  Family Moving Day () is the seventh book in the "Beechwood Bunny Tales" series. It was published in 1992 by Éditions Milan in France, and Gareth Stevens in the United States. In the book, the Bellflower family of rabbits move to a new house on the other side of the hill near which they live. Everyone is delighted to go, except Periwinkle, who does not easily adapt to new settings. In response, he runs away, and it is up to his father Bramble to find him.  As of 2008, this is the last book in the "Beechwood" franchise to have an English translation available. However, the original French series is still being published, with over 30 titles to date. Versions of "Family Moving Day" have also been published in Korean An animated version appeared in December 2001 on France's TF1 network, as one of the first episodes of "The Bellflower Bunnies" series.
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP]  Close to Home, is the second novel by English author Deborah Moggach, first published in 1979 by Collins. It is mentioned in the 6th edition of the Bloomsbury Good Reading Guide. Like her first novel You Must Be Sisters it is semi-autobiographical and relates to a time when she was living in Camden Town with two small children, a husband who was often away on business, and struggling to write a novel.
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP]  Album Singles
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP]  'Funny, affectionate and unpretentious…always a pleasure to read. Moggach has acute things to say about young married life, about looking after children, about the secret places behind noisy North London streets.' (New Statesman, Mar 30, 1979)
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] The Closer
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP]  The book is set in the long hot summer of 1976 in a suburban London street and concerns the occupants of two adjacent houses. In one lives Kate Cooper who struggles with her two young children and the domestic chores whilst keeping up appearances for her high-flying husband who works as a eurocrat in Brussels, spending little time at home. In the other lives Sam Green is struggling to write a novel whilst his wife goes out to work running a psychiatric practice and his angst-ridden teenage daughter binge eats in her bedroom. Kate and Sam are drawn together whilst their families are seemingly unaware...
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] Too Close to Home (novel)  "This is the article about the Canadian novel. For the 2016 Tyler Perry TV series, see Too Close to Home (TV series)."  Too Close to Home is a novel written by Canadian author Linwood Barclay, the author of the Richard & Judy Summer read winner "No Time For Goodbye".
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] Close to Home (comic strip)  Close to Home is a daily, one-panel comic strip by American cartoonist John McPherson that debuted in 1992. The comic strip features no ongoing plot, but is instead a collection of one-shot jokes covering a number of subjects that are "close to home", such as marriage, children, school, work, sports, health and home life. "Home" achieved its greatest peak in popularity in the mid-to-late 1990s, when several newspapers picked up the strip to replace the retired The Far Side. As of 2021, it runs in nearly 700 newspapers worldwide.
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] Close to Home (novel)  Close to Home, is the second novel by English author Deborah Moggach, first published in 1979 by Collins. It is mentioned in the 6th edition of the Bloomsbury Good Reading Guide. Like her first novel "You Must Be Sisters" it is semi-autobiographical and relates to a time when she was living in Camden Town with two small children, a husband who was often away on business, and struggling to write a novel.
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] Spider-Man: Far From Home  Spider-Man: Far From Home is a 2019 American superhero film based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, co-produced by Columbia Pictures and Marvel Studios, and distributed by Sony Pictures Releasing. It is the sequel to "" (2017) and the 23rd film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). The film was directed by Jon Watts, written by Chris McKenna and Erik Sommers, and stars Tom Holland as Peter Parker / Spider-Man, alongside Samuel L. Jackson, Zendaya, Cobie Smulders, Jon Favreau, J. B. Smoove, Jacob Batalon, Martin Starr, Tony Revolori, Marisa Tomei, and Jake Gyllenhaal. In the film, Parker is recruited by Nick Fury (Jackson) and Mysterio (Gyllenhaal) to face the Elementals while he is on a school trip to Europe.  Discussions for a sequel to "Spider-Man: Homecoming" began by October 2016, and the project was confirmed later that year. Holland, Watts, and the writers were all set to return by the end of 2017. In 2018, Jackson and Gyllenhaal joined the cast as Fury and Mysterio, respectively. Holland revealed the sequel's title ahead of filming, which began that July and took place in England, the Czech Republic, Italy, and the New York metropolitan area. Production wrapped in October 2018. The marketing campaign is one of the most expensive for a film ever and attempted to avoid revealing spoilers for "" prior to its April 2019 release.  "Spider-Man: Far From Home" premiered at the TCL Chinese Theatre on June 26, 2019, and was theatrically released in the United States on July 2, as the last film in of the MCU. The film received positive reviews with praise for its humor, action sequences, visuals, and the performances of Holland and Gyllenhaal. It grossed over $1.1 billion worldwide, making it the first Spider-Man film to pass the billion-dollar mark, the fourth-highest-grossing film of 2019, and became Sony Pictures' highest-grossing film and the 24th-highest-grossing film of all time. A sequel, "", was released in December 2021.
Who is the author of Close to Home? [SEP] So Much Water So Close to Home  So Much Water So Close to Home is an album by Australian rock band Paul Kelly and the Messengers and was originally released in August 1989. The title comes from a short story of the same name by author Raymond Carver. Carver died in August 1988. Kelly co-wrote the score for the 2006 Australian film "Jindabyne",  which was also based on the same story. but none of its singles, "Sweet Guy", "Careless" and "Most Wanted Man in the World" had any Top 40 chart success. who provided vocals, guitar and harmonica and also co-produced with Litt.<ref name="ARDb"/>
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]  The Chaos Code is a 2007 science-fiction/fantasy novel for young teenagers by British author Justin Richards. The novel won the Hull Children's Book Award in 2008.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]  Matt Stribling, a 15-year-old boy on holiday from boarding school, finds his archaeologist father missing under mysterious circumstances. He discovers that his father has been working on an ancient code which may have caused the downfall of ancient civilizations. Now a madman has the code and wants to use it to dominate the world.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]  Together with Kathleen T. Alligood and Tim D. Sauer, he was the author of the book Chaos: An Introduction to Dynamical Systems.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]  Operation Chaos is a 1971 science fantasy fixup novel by American writer Poul Anderson. A sequel, Operation Luna, was published in 1999.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]  Chaos: Making a New Science is a debut non-fiction book by James Gleick that initially introduced the principles and early development of the chaos theory to the public. It was a finalist for the National Book Award and the Pulitzer Prize in 1987, and was shortlisted for the Science Book Prize in 1989. The book was published on October 29, 1987 by Viking Books.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP] The Chaos Code  The Chaos Code is a 2007 science-fiction/fantasy novel for young teenagers by British author Justin Richards.  The novel won the Hull Children's Book Award in 2008.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP] Chaos Monkeys  Chaos Monkeys: Obscene Fortune and Random Failure in Silicon Valley is an autobiography written by American tech entrepreneur Antonio García Martínez. The book compares Silicon Valley to the "chaos monkeys" of society. In the book, the author details his career experiences with launching a tech startup, selling it to Twitter, and working at Facebook from its pre-IPO stage.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP] Science Adventure  Science Adventure is a multimedia series consisting of interconnected science fiction stories, created mainly by Mages, Nitroplus, and Chiyomaru Studio. The main entries mostly take the form of visual novel video games, but side entries span across several different mediums.  The series currently consists of six mainline entries: the first part of the series, "Chaos;Head", was a visual novel released in 2008, and it is followed the visual novels by "Steins;Gate", "Robotics;Notes", "Chaos;Child", and "Anonymous;Code" as well as the upcoming "Steins;???". There is also the light novel series "Occultic;Nine" which was adapted into a visual novel. The series also includes several spin-off games based on "Chaos;Head", "Steins;Gate", "Robotics;Notes", and "Chaos;Child", as well as many spinoffs in other mediums including anime, manga, light novels, audio dramas, and stage plays.  The main entries and their spin-offs all take place in the same fictional universe, with focuses on several different science fiction themes. "Chaos;Head" and "Chaos;Child" focus on perception, "Steins;Gate" focuses on time travel, and "Robotics;Notes" focuses on robotics and augmented reality. The player can affect the course of the story by making certain choices: in "Chaos;Head" and "Chaos;Child" this is done by choosing what kind of delusions the player characters experience. The choices in the "Steins;Gate" games and "Robotics;Notes" are made via messages set by the player via an in-game cell phone and tablet computer, respectively.  The series is planned by Chiyomaru Shikura, the CEO of Mages, composed by Takeshi Abo and Zizz Studio, written by Naotaka Hayashi along with other writers, and features character designs by artists including Mutsumi Sasaki, Huke, and Tomonori Fukuda. The developers aimed to make the series set within reality, as Shikura felt it made it more relatable and believable. The series has been commercially and critically successful both in Japan and internationally, selling more than expected for the genre and helping establishing Mages (previously 5pb.) as a game developer.  The series is published by Mages and Nitroplus in Japan, and by JAST USA, PQube, Mages, and Spike Chunsoft internationally. The visual novels "Steins;Gate", "Steins;Gate 0", "Chaos;Child", "Steins;Gate Elite", "Steins;Gate: Linear Bounded Phenogram", "8-bit ADV Steins;Gate", "Steins;Gate: My Darling's Embrace", "Robotics;Notes" "Elite", and "Robotics;Notes Dash" have been released officially in English. "Chaos;Head NoAH" and "Anonymous;Code" have also been announced for an English release.
Who is the author of The Chaos Code? [SEP] Chaos;Child  Chaos;Child (stylized as ChäoS;Child) is a visual novel video game developed by 5pb. It is the fourth main entry in the "Science Adventure" series, and a thematic sequel to "Chaos;Head" (2008). It was released in Japan in 2014 for Xbox One, and later for PlayStation 3, PlayStation 4, PlayStation Vita, Microsoft Windows, iOS, Android, and Nintendo Switch. An English localization was released for the PlayStation 4 and PlayStation Vita by PQube in 2017, and for Windows by Spike Chunsoft in 2019.  The player takes the role of Takuru Miyashiro, the president of his school's newspaper club, who investigates the "Return of the New Generation Madness" serial murder case. He experiences delusions, and at multiple points throughout the story, the player gets the option to choose if Takuru should experience a positive or negative delusion, or neither: these choices affect the plot's direction, causing it to branch off from the main narrative into different routes.  The game was created to have "psycho-suspense" elements similar to "Chaos;Head", while also adding a larger amount of horror elements. For the game's aesthetic, the developers aimed for it to be "unmoving", in contrast to the previous game in the series, "Robotics;Notes" (2012). The music was composed by Takeshi Abo based on notes of his impressions of the story and emotional flow, to ensure a good relationship to the game's worldview. The English localization was handled by Adam Lensenmayer, whose experience with translating the "Science Adventure" game "Steins;Gate 0" (2015) ensured a smoother process, with a lot of communication with the developers.  "Chaos;Child" was well received by critics, but underperformed commercially; this led to the development of "Steins;???", which relates to the more popular "Science Adventure" game "Steins;Gate" similarly to how "Chaos;Child" relates to "Chaos;Head". Other "Chaos;Child" media includes an anime series, two manga, an audio drama, and the video game "Chaos;Child Love Chu Chu!!".
Who is the author of August? [SEP]  Twenty years have passed since the action in Wayfarers, and August has settled in his home village of Polden. August's identity is built on a grand delusion and he lives a good and simple life as a sailor who has just returned from America. August is a man who wants to make changes, improve, and renew everything.
Who is the author of August? [SEP] "August" in SUMMER HEAT, 1998/08 (with Pamela Burford) ; "Santa, baby" in NAUGHTY OF NICE?, 2001/11 (with Sherrilyn Kenyon and Carly Phillips and Kathryn Smith) ; "Possessing Julia" in BURNING UP, 2003/07 (with Nina Bangs, Cheryl Holt and Kimberly Raye) ; "What happens in Vegas" in TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS, 2005/08 (with Toni Blake and LuAnn McLane)
Who is the author of August? [SEP]  Sidney Williams (born 1962) is an American author of six novels under his own name and three young adult novels under the pseudonym Michael August. He has also authored numerous short stories and comic book scripts. Williams received a Master of Fine Arts from Goddard College.
Who is the author of August? [SEP]  August is the second novel in the Wayfarers trilogy, also known as the August trilogy, by the Norwegian author Knut Hamsun. The novel was published on October 1, 1930.
Who is the author of August? [SEP]  In The August was a short story by a Nobel Prize-winning Russian author Ivan Bunin first published in Russkaya mysl 1901, #8, August issue.
Who is the author of August? [SEP] August Wilson  August Wilson ( Frederick August Kittel Jr.; April 27, 1945 – October 2, 2005) was an American playwright. He has been referred to as the "theater's poet of Black America". He is best known for a series of ten plays, collectively called "" (or "The Century Cycle")"," which chronicle the experiences and heritage of the African-American community in the 20th century. Plays in the series include "Fences" (1987) and "The Piano Lesson" (1990), both of which won the Pulitzer Prize for Drama, as well as "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom" (1984) and "Joe Turner's Come and Gone" (1988). In 2006, Wilson was inducted into the American Theater Hall of Fame.  His works delve into the African-American experience as well as examinations of the human condition. Other themes range from the systemic and historical exploitation of African Americans, as well as race relations, identity, migration, and racial discrimination. Viola Davis said that Wilson's writing "captures our humor, our vulnerabilities, our tragedies, our trauma. And he humanizes us. And he allows us to talk." Since Wilson's death two of his plays have been adapted into films: "Fences" (2016) and "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom" (2020). Denzel Washington has shepherded the films and has vowed to continue Wilson's legacy by adapting the rest of his plays into films for a wider audience. Washington said, "the greatest part of what's left of my career is making sure that August is taken care of".
Who is the author of August? [SEP] August (Rossner novel)  August, is a novel written by Judith Rossner focused on a psychoanalyst and one of her analysands. The title refers to the month of August, when analysts leave the city for the month and thus leave some of their patients without the emotional support of the analytic relationship.
Who is the author of August? [SEP]
Who is the author of August? [SEP] August Derleth  August William Derleth (February 24, 1909 – July 4, 1971) was an American writer and anthologist. Though best remembered as the first book publisher of the writings of H. P. Lovecraft, and for his own contributions to the Cthulhu Mythos and the cosmic horror genre, as well as his founding of the publisher Arkham House (which did much to bring supernatural fiction into print in hardcover in the US that had only been readily available in the UK), Derleth was a leading American regional writer of his day, as well as prolific in several other genres, including historical fiction, poetry, detective fiction, science fiction, and biography.  A 1938 Guggenheim Fellow, Derleth considered his most serious work to be the ambitious "Sac Prairie Saga", a series of fiction, historical fiction, poetry, and non-fiction naturalist works designed to memorialize life in the Wisconsin he knew. Derleth can also be considered a pioneering naturalist and conservationist in his writing.
Who is the author of August? [SEP] August Rush  August Rush is a 2007 musical drama film directed by Kirsten Sheridan and produced by Richard Barton Lewis. The screenplay is by Nick Castle and James V. Hart, with a story by Paul Castro and Castle. A co-production between the United States, the United Kingdom and South Korea, it involves an 11-year-old musical prodigy living in an orphanage who runs away to New York City. He begins to unravel the mystery of who he is, all while his mother is searching for him and his father is searching for her. The many different sounds and rhythms he hears throughout his journey culminate in a major instrumental composition, which concludes the film ("August's Rhapsody").
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP]  Kiteworld is a novel by Keith Roberts published in 1985.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP]  An imprint of Hodder and Stoughton, Yellow Kite was founded in 2013 by Liz Gough, and become one of the first ever lists dedicated to the health and well-being genre. Yellow Kite began publishing in January 2014 and in its first year (Yellow Kite) had two Sunday Times Top Ten bestsellers: One Million Lovely Letters by Jodi Ann Bickley and Black Rainbow by Rachel Kelly. It also had a New York Times bestseller with David Perlmutter’s Grain Brain. Publishing about a dozen non-fiction titles per year, its (stated) mission is to produce ‘books to help you live a good life’ covering inspirational self-help and memoir, mind, body and spirit, healthy eating, diet,
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP]   The Kite Rider is a children's novel by Geraldine McCaughrean.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP]  The Kite Fighters is a 2000 historical children's novel that was written by Linda Sue Park and illustrated by her father Eung Won Park. It was first published on March 20, 2000 through Clarion Books and follows two brothers in Korea during the 15th century.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP]  The Kites of War is a 1969 thriller novel by the British writer Derek Lambert. It is set on the Chinese-Indian frontier, where Lambert had worked as a foreign correspondent.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP] The Kite Runner  The Kite Runner is the first novel by Afghan-American author Khaled Hosseini. Published in 2003 by Riverhead Books, it tells the story of Amir, a young boy from the Wazir Akbar Khan district of Kabul. The story is set against a backdrop of tumultuous events, from the fall of Afghanistan's monarchy through the Soviet invasion, the exodus of refugees to Pakistan and the United States, and the rise of the Taliban regime.  Hosseini has commented that he considers "The Kite Runner" to be a father-son relationship story, emphasizing the familial aspects of the narrative, an element that he continued to use in his later works. Themes of guilt and redemption feature prominently in the novel,<ref name="Guthmann"/> with a pivotal scene depicting an act of sexual assault inflicted upon Amir's friend Hassan, which Amir fails to prevent, and which ends their friendship. The latter half of the book centers on Amir's attempts to atone for this transgression by rescuing Hassan's son two decades later.  "The Kite Runner" became a bestseller after being printed in paperback and was popularized in book clubs. It appeared on the "New York Times" bestseller list for over two years, Reviews were generally positive, though parts of the plot drew significant controversy in Afghanistan. A number of adaptations were created following publication, including a 2007 film of the same name, several stage performances, and a graphic novel. The novel is also available in a multi-CD audiobook read by the author.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP] Khaled Hosseini  Khaled Hosseini (;Pashto/Dari ; born March 4, 1965) is an Afghan-American novelist, UNHCR goodwill ambassador, and former physician. His debut novel "The Kite Runner" (2003) was a critical and commercial success; the book and his subsequent novels have all been at least partially set in Afghanistan and have featured an Afghan as the protagonist.  Born in Kabul, Afghanistan, to a diplomat father, Hosseini spent some time living in Iran and France. When Hosseini was 15, his family applied for asylum in the United States, where he later became a naturalized citizen. Hosseini did not return to Afghanistan until 2003 when he was 38, an experience similar to that of the protagonist in "The Kite Runner". In later interviews, Hosseini admitted to feeling survivor's guilt for having been able to leave the country prior to the Soviet invasion and subsequent wars.   After graduating from college, Hosseini worked as a physician in California, a situation he likened to "an arranged marriage". The success of "The Kite Runner" meant he was able to retire from medicine in order to write full-time. His three novels have all reached various levels of critical and commercial success. "The Kite Runner" spent 101 weeks on "The New York Times" Best Seller list, including three weeks at number one. His second novel, "A Thousand Splendid Suns" (2007), spent 103 weeks on the chart, including 15 at number one while his third novel, "And the Mountains Echoed" (2013), remained on the chart for 33 weeks. In addition to writing, Hosseini has advocated for the support of refugees, including establishing with the UNHCR the Khaled Hosseini Foundation to support Afghan refugees returning to Afghanistan.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP] A Thousand Splendid Suns  A Thousand Splendid Suns is a 2007 novel by Afghan-American author Khaled Hosseini, following the huge success of his bestselling 2003 debut "The Kite Runner". Mariam, an illegitimate teenager from Herat, is forced to marry a shoemaker from Kabul after a family tragedy. Laila, born a generation later, lives a relatively privileged life, but her life intersects with Mariam's when a similar tragedy forces her to accept a marriage proposal from Mariam's husband.  Hosseini has remarked that he regards the novel as a "mother-daughter story" in contrast to "The Kite Runner", which he considers a "father-son story" and friendships between men.<ref name="KH interview"/> It continues some of the themes used in his previous work, such as familial dynamics, but instead focusing primarily on female characters and their roles in contemporary Afghan society.  "A Thousand Splendid Suns" was released on May 22, 2007, and received favorable widespread critical acclaim from "Kirkus Reviews", "Publishers Weekly", and "Booklist", and became a number one "New York Times" Best Seller for fifteen weeks following its release. During its first week on sale, it sold over one million copies. Columbia Pictures purchased film rights in 2007, and a theatrical adaptation of the book premiered on February 1, 2017, at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, California.<ref name=lat/>
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP] Crystal Kite Award  The Crystal Kite Award (also known as 'Crystal Kite Members Choice Award) is given by the Society of Children's Book Writers and Illustrators (SCBWI) each year to recognize great books from the 70 SCBWI regions around the world. Along with the SCBWI Golden Kite Awards, the Crystal Kite Awards are chosen by other children's book writers and illustrators, making them the only peer-given awards in publishing for young readers.  Each SCBWI member votes for their favorite book from a nominated author in their region that was published in the previous calendar year.
Who is the author of Kite? [SEP] Kite (1998 film)  Kite, known as in Japan, is a Japanese original video animation written and directed by Yasuomi Umetsu. Two 35-minute episodes were released on VHS on February 25 and October 25, 1998, respectively. However, subsequent releases, including all three DVD releases in the United States, have edited the OVA into a film.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] Books written with Alfred E. Kahn ; Sabotage! The Secret War Against America (1942, 1944) ; Taĭnai︠a︡ voĭna protiv Ameriki (1947) ; The Plot Against the Peace: A Warning to the Nation! (1945) ; The Great Conspiracy: The Secret War Against Soviet Russia (1946) ; Gran conspiración contra Rusia (1946, 1948) ; Grote samenzwering (1946) ; Groyse farshverung (1946) ; Gran conspiración contra Rusia (1948) ; Grande congiura (1948) ; Wielki spisek przeciwko ZSRR (1948) ; Velké spiknutí (1950) ; Tālāqu śérā (1981) ; Articles ; "Japan's Undercover Drive in America," Friday (February 14, 1941) ; Plays ; Kathleen (1955) ; Electra: the Legend (1997) ; The Neutrals (1998) ; Joan Saint Joan (1991) ; Screenplays ; Casino Royale (1967 film) ; Teleplays ; Der Spazierstock (1955)
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP]  Dark Invasion: 1915: Germany's Secret War and the Hunt for the First Terrorist Cell in America is a non-fiction book written by the American author, Howard Blum. It was published by Crown Publishing Group on February 11, 2014. The American edition was issued by Harper in 2014.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP]  In 1977, following the end of Rockefeller's tenure, Persico published My Enemy My Brother: Men and Days of Gettysburg, an historical work of non fiction covering the American Civil War. In 1979, he published a novel, The Spiderweb, and a further nonfiction study, Piercing the Reich: The Penetration of Nazi Germany by American Secret Agents During World War II. Three years later he produced The Imperial Rockefeller, a biography of his former employer. This was followed by a biography of Edward R. Murrow. In 1995, he co-wrote Colin L. Powell's autobiography My American Journey. Throughout the 1990s, Persico continued to produce historical books (Casey: From the OSS to the CIA and Nuremberg: Infamy on Trial) as well as numerous articles on American history. In November 2001, he published Roosevelt's Secret War: FDR and World War II Espionage and in 2004, Eleventh Month, Eleventh Day, Eleventh Hour: Armistice Day, 1918, World War I and Its Violent Climax. In May 2013, he published his last book, Roosevelt's Centurions, through Random House.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP]  Kahn used materials gained by his investigations of Nazi and German-American activities for The Hour as the basis of his first book, ''Sabotage! The Secret War Against America'' (1942), co-written with Michael Sayers. Reader's Digest printed excerpts from the book, and it became a bestseller. Kahn and Sayers also collaborated on The Plot Against The Peace (1945) and The Great Conspiracy: The Secret War Against Soviet Russia (1946), which became an international bestseller. In the latter, which explored the Moscow purge trials, the authors accepted as valid the Communist Party charges of treason against former Soviet opposition leaders, and the underlying allegation of plots to overthrow the Soviet state, assassinate Lenin, Stalin, Gorky, and others. Most historians,
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP]  Alex Abella (born 1950) is an American author and journalist best known for his non-fiction works Soldiers of Reason: The RAND Corporation and the Rise of the American Empire (2008) and Shadow Enemies: Hitler's Secret Terrorist Plot Against the United States (2003, with Scott Gordon).
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War  Germs: Biological Weapons and America's Secret War is a 2001 book written by "New York Times" journalists Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg, and William Broad. It describes how humanity has dealt with biological weapons, and the dangers of bioterrorism. It was the 2001 "New York Times" #1 Non-Fiction Bestseller the weeks of October 28 and November 4.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] Secret War (comics)  Secret War is a 2004–2005 comic book storyline published by Marvel Comics, consisting of a central, five-issue miniseries written by Brian Michael Bendis and illustrated by Gabriele Dell'Otto, and a number of tie-in books. It is loosely based on classified operations told to Bendis by an anonymous high-ranking officer in the United States Intelligence Community during Bendis' childhood.  The storyline involves a large-scale super-hero crossover featuring Marvel characters such as Spider-Man, Captain America, Wolverine, Daredevil, Luke Cage and Nick Fury fighting a wide array of supervillains who have received hi-tech armaments from a mysterious benefactor.  The first issue was published in April 2004, and though intended originally as a bimonthly publication, it faced long delays. It was completed with issue five's publication in December 2005.  The aftermath of the series was explored in stories in "The Pulse" and Bendis has gone on to use many of the same characters in his "New Avengers" titles. This event begins an eight-year-long series of cross-over events ending with "Avengers vs. X-Men".  The storyline in "Secret War" is unrelated to the original "Secret Wars" and "Secret Wars II" crossover limited series which Marvel published in the mid-1980s, although its title is clearly inspired by them. Those stories received their own spiritual successor in "Beyond!", published in 2006.  Bendis has noted that "Secret War" is connected to the "Secret Invasion" storyline, in which Skrulls have infiltrated several institutions of Earth.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] Secret Wars  Marvel Super Heroes Secret Wars, commonly known as Secret Wars for short, is a twelve-issue American comic book crossover limited series published from May 1984 to April 1985 by Marvel Comics. The series was written by Jim Shooter, with art by Mike Zeck and Bob Layton. It was tied-in with a toy line of the same name from Mattel.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] Laotian Civil War  The Laotian Civil War (1959–1975) was a civil war in Laos which was waged between the Communist Pathet Lao and the Royal Lao Government from 23 May 1959 to 2 December 1975. It is associated with the Cambodian Civil War and the Vietnam War, with both sides receiving heavy external support in a proxy war between the global Cold War superpowers. It is called the Secret War among the American CIA Special Activities Center, and Hmong and Mien veterans of the conflict.  The Kingdom of Laos was a covert theater for other belligerents during the Vietnam War. The Franco–Lao Treaty of Amity and Association (signed 22 October 1953) transferred remaining French powers to the Royal Lao Government (except control of military affairs), establishing Laos as an independent member of the French Union. However, this government did not include representatives from the Lao Issara anti-colonial armed nationalist movement.  The following years were marked by a rivalry between the neutralists under Prince Souvanna Phouma, the right wing under Prince Boun Oum of Champassak, and the left-wing Lao Patriotic Front under Prince Souphanouvong and half-Vietnamese future Prime Minister Kaysone Phomvihane. Several attempts were made to establish coalition governments, and a "tri-coalition" government was finally seated in Vientiane.  The fighting in Laos involved the North Vietnamese Army, U.S. troops and Thai forces and South Vietnamese army forces directly and through irregular proxies in a struggle for control over the Laotian Panhandle. The North Vietnamese Army occupied the area to use for its Ho Chi Minh Trail supply corridor and as a staging area for offensives into South Vietnam. There was a second major theater of action on and near the northern Plain of Jars.  The North Vietnamese and Pathet Lao eventually emerged victorious in 1975 in the slipstream of the victory of the North Vietnamese army and the South Vietnamese VietCong in Vietnam War. A total of up to 300,000 people from Laos fled to neighbouring Thailand following the Pathet Lao takeover.  After the communists took power in Laos, Hmong rebels fought the new government. The Hmong were persecuted as traitors and "lackeys" of the Americans, with the government and its Vietnamese allies carrying out human rights abuses against Hmong civilians. The incipient conflict between Vietnam and China also played a role with Hmong rebels being accused of receiving support from China. Over 40,000 people died in the conflict.  The Lao royal family were arrested by the Pathet Lao after the war and sent to labor camps, where most of them died in the late 1970s and 1980s, including King Savang Vatthana, Queen Khamphoui and Crown Prince Vong Savang.
Who is the author of America's Secret War? [SEP] George Friedman  George Friedman (, born February 1, 1949) is a Hungarian-born U.S. geopolitical forecaster, author, and strategist on international affairs. He is the founder and chairman of "Geopolitical Futures", an online publication that analyzes and forecasts the course of global events. Prior to founding Geopolitical Futures, he was chairman of its predecessor Stratfor, the private intelligence publishing and consulting firm he founded in 1996.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP]  Robert Charles Black Jr. (born January 4, 1951) is an American anarchist and author. He is the author of the books The Abolition of Work and Other Essays, Beneath the Underground, Friendly Fire, Anarchy After Leftism, and Defacing the Currency, and numerous political essays.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP]  Michael H. Black is a British author and held the position of University Publisher at Cambridge University Press.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP]  The Black Book is a novel by Lawrence Durrell, published in 1938 by the Obelisk Press.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP]  Black Man (published as Thirteen in North America and later UK editions) is a 2007 science fiction novel by the British author Richard Morgan. It won the 2008 Arthur C. Clarke Award.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP]  Black: The Birth of Evil is a novel written by author Ted Dekker. It is the first book in the Circle Series, and is a part of the Books of History Chronicles. The book was published in 2004 by Thomas Nelson.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP] Cara Black (author)  Cara Black (born November 14, 1951) is a bestselling American mystery writer. She is best known for her "Aimée Leduc" mystery novels featuring a female Paris-based private investigator. Black is included in the "Great Women Mystery Writers" by Elizabeth Lindsay 2nd edition. Her first novel "Murder in the Marais" was nominated for an Anthony Award for best first novel and the third novel in the series, "Murder in the Sentier", was Anthony-nominated for Best Novel.<ref name="carablack" />
Who is the author of Black? [SEP] Black Panther (character)  Black Panther is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character was created by writer-editor Stan Lee and artist-coplotter Jack Kirby. The character first appeared in "Fantastic Four" #52 (cover-dated July 1966) in the Silver Age of Comic Books. Black Panther's real name is T'Challa, and he is depicted as the king and protector of the fictional African nation of Wakanda. Along with possessing enhanced abilities achieved through ancient Wakandan rituals of drinking the essence of the heart-shaped herb, T'Challa also relies on his proficiency in science, rigorous physical training, hand-to-hand combat skills, and access to wealth and advanced Wakandan technology to combat his enemies.  Black Panther is the first protagonist of African descent in mainstream American comics, having debuted years before early black superheroes such as Marvel Comics' the Falcon (1969), Luke Cage (1972), and Blade (1973) or DC Comics' John Stewart in the role of Green Lantern (1971). In one comic book storyline, the Black Panther mantle is handled by Kasper Cole, a multiracial New York City police officer. Beginning as an impersonator, Cole would later take on the moniker of White Tiger and become an ally to T'Challa. The role of Black Panther and leadership of Wakanda was also given to T'Challa's sister Shuri while he was in a coma for a short time.  Black Panther has made numerous appearances in various television shows, animated films and video games. Chadwick Boseman portrayed the character in of the Marvel Cinematic Universe's films: "" (2016), "Black Panther" (2018), "" (2018), and "" (2019), and voiced alternate versions of the character in the first season of the animated series "What If...?" (2021).
Who is the author of Black? [SEP] Black Clover  The manga was first adapted into an original video animation produced by Xebec Zwei, released in 2017. An anime television series adaptation produced by Pierrot aired in Japan on TV Tokyo from October 2017 to March 2021. An anime film, titled "Black Clover: Sword of the Wizard King", is set to premiere in Japanese theaters and on Netflix in March 2023.  In North America, the manga is licensed for English release by Viz Media, while the anime series is licensed by Crunchyroll.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP] List of African-American writers  This is a list of Black American authors and writers, all of whom are considered part of African-American literature, and who already have Wikipedia articles. The list also includes non-American authors resident in the US and American writers of African descent.
Who is the author of Black? [SEP] Black Beauty  Black Beauty: His Grooms and Companions, the Autobiography of a Horse is an 1877 novel by English author Anna Sewell. It was composed in the last years of her life, during which she was bedridden and seriously ill. The novel became an immediate best-seller, with Sewell dying just five months after its publication, but having lived long enough to see her only novel become a success. With fifty million copies sold, "Black Beauty" is one of the best-selling books of all time.  While forthrightly teaching animal welfare, it also teaches how to treat people with kindness, sympathy, and respect. In 2003, the novel was listed at number 58 on the BBC's survey "The Big Read". It is seen as a forerunner of the pony book.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP]  Murray in the first publication of the test, and as late as 1941 the test was known as the "Morgan-Murray Thematic Apperception Test". When the current version of the test was published by the Harvard University Press in 1943, authorship was attributed to "Henry A. Murray, M.D., and the Staff of the Harvard Psychological Clinic." As it was further developed, Morgan's pictures were taken out as well as her co-authorship. Murray stated 1985, "Morgan asked to have her name removed as senior author of the 1943/1971 TAT because she disliked the obligation of making the academic responses". Morgan administered one of the earliest versions of the test to one of the first diagnosed anorexic patients in Boston.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP]  The Test is a novel by Mary Tappan Wright. It was first published in hardcover by Charles Scribner's Sons in February, 1904. It was Wright's second published novel and third published book.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP]  The Test is the 43rd book in the Animorphs series, written by K.A. Applegate. It was ghostwritten by Ellen Geroux. It is narrated by Tobias.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP]  language difficulties of children with specific developmental reading disabilities (dyslexia). He is the author or co-author of over 230 books, book chapters, and articles on the psychology of reading, reading disabilities, and reading instruction. He is also the author, with Dr. Richard Wagner and Dr. Carol Rashotte, of two of the most widely used diagnostic tests for dyslexia, The Comprehensive Test of Phonological Processes and the Test of Word Reading Efficiency. In 2002, Dr. Torgesen was asked by Governor Jeb Bush of Florida to establish a center for reading research at Florida State University. The center was to have
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP]  A Test of the News is a study of the objectivity and neutrality of press coverage, written by Walter Lippmann and Charles Merz, later editor of the New York Times. It was prepared with the assistance of Faye Albertson Lippmann, Lippmann's first wife. The subject was the portrayal of the Russian Revolution. The study appeared on August 4, 1920 as a 42-page supplement to The New Republic. In a kind of content analysis, the authors examined several thousand newspaper articles in more than 1,000 issues published over a period of three years, beginning in March 1917 and ending in March 1920.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP] Bechdel test  The Bechdel test ( ) is a measure of the representation of women in film (and, by extension, in fiction in general). The test asks whether a film features at least two women talking to each other about something other than a man. The measure sometimes is enhanced by adding that the two female characters be named in the film.  Passing or failing the test is not necessarily indicative of how well women are represented in any specific work. Rather, the test is used as an indicator for the active presence of women in the entire field of film and other fiction, and to call attention to gender inequality in fiction. Media industry studies indicate that films that pass the test perform better financially than those that do not.  The test is named after the American cartoonist Alison Bechdel, in whose 1985 comic strip "Dykes to Watch Out For" the test first appeared. Bechdel credited the idea to her friend Liz Wallace and the writings of Virginia Woolf. After the test became more widely discussed in the 2000s, a number of variants and tests inspired by it emerged.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP] CRAAP test  The CRAAP test is a test to check the objective reliability of information sources across academic disciplines. CRAAP is an acronym for Currency, Relevance, Authority, Accuracy, and Purpose. is used mainly by higher education librarians at universities. It is one of various approaches to source criticism.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP] William Moulton Marston  William Moulton Marston (May 9, 1893 – May 2, 1947), also known by the pen name Charles Moulton (), was an American psychologist who, with his wife Elizabeth Holloway, invented an early prototype of the lie detector. He was also known as a self-help author and comic book writer who created the character Wonder Woman.<ref name="NYT-20141023"/>  Two women, his wife Elizabeth Holloway Marston, and their polyamorous life partner, Olive Byrne, greatly influenced Wonder Woman's creation.  He was inducted into the Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2006.
Who is the author of The Test? [SEP] The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test  The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test is a 1968 nonfiction book by Tom Wolfe. The book is a popular example of the New Journalism literary style. Wolfe presents a firsthand account of the experiences of Ken Kesey and his band of Merry Pranksters, who traveled across the US in a colorfully painted school bus, "Furthur", whose name was painted on the destination sign, indicating the general ethos of the Pranksters. Kesey and the Pranksters became famous for their use of psychedelic drugs such as LSD in order to achieve expansion of their consciousness. The book chronicles the Acid Tests (parties with LSD-laced Kool-Aid), encounters with notable figures of the time (Hells Angels, Grateful Dead, Allen Ginsberg) and describes Kesey's exile to Mexico and his arrests.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP]  Darkness, Tell Us is a 1991 horror novel by American writer Richard Laymon. Originally published by Headline Features, it is currently available in a paperback edition from Leisure Fiction.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP]  Daughter of Darkness is a 1972 psychological thriller written by Jan and Robert Lowell, a husband and wife who use the joint pseudonym J. R. Lowell.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP]  Darkness is a horror novel by John Saul published in 1991. Set in the fictional hamlet of Villejeune, Florida, a town shrouded by a dark, evil force. On the edge of an eerie swamp the townsfolk act out gruesome rituals to appease the dark spirit that lies within the watery fortress enveloping the village. The Andersons return to the town, and soon realize they must confront this evil head on.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP]  * World of Darkness, Vol. II, contributing author; 1996 * Monsters of Norrath, co-author, August 2002 ; * Player's Handbook, co-author, July 2002 * Defender Sourcebook, co-author; 1999 ; * Survival Guide, contributing author; 1999 ; * Hunter: the Reckoning, contributing author; 1999 * The Medellín Agent, co-author; 1997 ; * Overlay Accessory Kit, contributing author; 1994 * Magic, contributing author; 1995 ; * Legends of Earthdawn, contributing author; 1995 * Aberrant: Project Utopia, White Wolf Publishing, contributing author; 1999 ; * Deadlands: Marshall Law, Pinnacle Entertainment Group, contributing author, 1996 ; * World of Necroscope: Book of Adventures, West End Games, contributing author;
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] A Night of Blacker Darkness, written as Frederick Whithers (author) and Cecil G. Bagsworth III (editor) (July 2011, Fearful Symmetry, ISBN: 978-1-4660-0075-9) ; The Hollow City (July 2012, Tor Books, ISBN: 978-0765331700) ; Extreme Makeover (November 2016, Tor Books, ISBN: 978-0-7653-8562-8) ; Ghost Station (November 2019, Audible Originals)
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] Dark (TV series)  Dark is a German science fiction thriller television series co-created by Baran bo Odar and Jantje Friese. It ran for three seasons from 2017 to 2020. The story follows characters from the fictional village of Winden, Germany, as they pursue the truth in the aftermath of a child's disappearance. They follow connections between four estranged families to unravel a sinister time travel conspiracy which spans several generations. The series explores the existential implications of time and its effect on human nature. It features an ensemble cast.  "Dark" debuted on 1 December 2017 on Netflix; it is the service's first German-language original series. The second season was released on 21 June 2019, while the third and final season was released on 27 June 2020.  "Dark" received critical acclaim, with praise for its tone, visuals, acting, casting, musical score, and the ambition and complexity of its narrative. The series' ending also received critical praise, with many calling it a "satisfying" conclusion. In 2021, the "BBC" ranked the series as the 58th greatest TV series of the 21st century.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] Darkness at Noon  Darkness at Noon () is a novel by Hungarian-born novelist Arthur Koestler, first published in 1940. His best known work, it is the tale of Rubashov, an Old Bolshevik who is arrested, imprisoned, and tried for treason against the government that he helped to create.  The novel is set between 1938 and 1940, after the Stalinist Great Purge and Moscow show trials. Despite being based on real events, the novel does not name either Russia or the Soviets, and tends to use generic terms to describe people and organizations: for example the Soviet government is referred to as "the Party" and Nazi Germany is referred to as "the Dictatorship". Joseph Stalin is represented by "Number One", a menacing dictator. The novel expresses the author's disillusionment with the Bolshevik ideology of the Soviet Union at the outset of World War II.  In 1998, the Modern Library ranked "Darkness at Noon" number eight on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century, even though Koestler wrote it in German.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] Heart of Darkness  Heart of Darkness (1899) is a novella by Polish-English novelist Joseph Conrad in which the sailor Charles Marlow tells his listeners the story of his assignment as steamer captain for a Belgian company in the African interior. The novel is widely regarded as a critique of European colonial rule in Africa, whilst also examining the themes of power dynamics and morality. Although Conrad does not name the river on which most of the narrative takes place, at the time of writing the Congo Free State, the location of the large and economically important Congo River, was a private colony of Belgium's King Leopold II. Marlow is given a text by Kurtz, an ivory trader working on a trading station far up the river, who has "gone native" and is the object of Marlow's expedition.  Central to Conrad's work is the idea that there is little difference between "civilised people" and "savages." "Heart of Darkness" implicitly comments on imperialism and racism. The novella's setting provides the frame for Marlow's story of his fascination for the prolific ivory trader Kurtz. Conrad draws parallels between London ("the greatest town on earth") and Africa as places of darkness.  Originally issued as a three-part serial story in "Blackwood's Magazine" to celebrate the 1000th edition of the magazine, "Heart of Darkness" has been widely republished and translated in many languages. It provided the inspiration for Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 film "Apocalypse Now". In 1998, the Modern Library ranked "Heart of Darkness" 67th on their list of the 100 best novels in English of the 20th century.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] Darkness Visible (memoir)  Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness is a memoir by American writer William Styron about his descent into depression and the triumph of recovery. It is among the last books published by Styron and is among his most celebrated.   First published in December 1989 in "Vanity Fair", the book grew out of a lecture that Styron originally delivered at a symposium on affective disorders at the Department of Psychiatry of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.  Through the employment of anecdotes, speculation, and reportage, Styron reflects on the causes and effects of depression, drawing links between his own illness and that of other writers and public figures.
Who is the author of Darkness? [SEP] The Left Hand of Darkness  The Left Hand of Darkness is a science fiction novel by U.S. writer Ursula K. Le Guin. Published in 1969, it became immensely popular, and established Le Guin's status as a major author of science fiction. The novel is set in the fictional Hainish universe as part of the "Hainish Cycle", a series of novels and short stories by Le Guin, which she introduced in the 1964 short story "The Dowry of Angyar". It was fourth in sequence of writing among the Hainish novels, preceded by "City of Illusions", and followed by "The Word for World Is Forest".  The novel follows the story of Genly Ai, a human native of Terra, who is sent to the planet of Gethen as an envoy of the Ekumen, a loose confederation of planets. Ai's mission is to persuade the nations of Gethen to join the Ekumen, but he is stymied by a lack of understanding of their culture. Individuals on Gethen are "ambisexual", with no fixed sex; this has a strong influence on the culture of the planet, and creates a barrier of understanding for Ai.  "The Left Hand of Darkness" was among the first books in the genre now known as feminist science fiction and is the most famous examination of androgyny in science fiction. A major theme of the novel is the effect of sex and gender on culture and society, explored in particular through the relationship between Ai and Estraven, a Gethenian politician who trusts and helps Ai. When the book was first published, the gender theme touched off a feminist debate over the depiction of the ambisexual Gethenians. The novel also explores the interaction between the unfolding loyalties of its two main characters, the loneliness and rootlessness of Ai, and the contrast between the religions of Gethen's two major nations.  "The Left Hand of Darkness" has been reprinted more than 30 times, and received high praise from reviewers. In 1970 it was voted the Hugo and Nebula Awards for Best Novel by fans and writers, respectively, and was ranked as the third best novel, behind Frank Herbert's "Dune" and Arthur C. Clarke's "Childhood's End", in a 1975 poll in "Locus" magazine. In 1987, "Locus" ranked it second among science fiction novels, after "Dune", and literary critic Harold Bloom wrote, "Le Guin, more than Tolkien, has raised fantasy into high literature, for our time".
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP]  Chelsea on the Edge: The Adventures of an American Theater (1991) is a book by Davi Napoleon about the onstage triumphs and the offstage turmoil at the Chelsea Theater Center of Brooklyn. It includes biographies of the three co-directors, Robert Kalfin, Michael David, and Burl Hash, and anecdotes about behind-the-scenes activities at the Chelsea. It is also a history of the funding crisis for the arts in America. It explores the theater's socioeconomic milieu in the 1970s. There are stories about attempts to censor the arts and describing increasing anti-arts sentiment in this country. The book features a foreword by Broadway director and producer Harold Prince. Prince discusses the problems of
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP]  Edge is a fascinating account of the unique theater he created. I doubt we will ever see the like of such a theater again." Frank Langella "I believe this book documents a tragedy. It is a metaphor for the change in the priorities of our society. It follows a diminishing curve of moral responsibility emphasized by the government's unwillingness to acknowledge the place of art in the quality of our lives...They tell me that it's only cyclical, that times will change, that the worship of Mammon will give way to daydreaming, impracticality, naiveté, idealism. Perhaps they're right. After all; there once was a Group Theatre; there once a Mercury Theatre; and there once was the Chelsea." Hal Prince, from the foreword
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP]  an art theater in a commercial society. It is written in the style of a novel, even though it is a non-fiction work. The model for the book is Voltaire's Candide. This book was one of a handful on the forefront of the field of creative non-fiction. Three years after its publication, in 1994, the Creative Nonfiction Foundation was established. The author reports that when she submitted a draft of the work as a doctoral dissertation, she was asked to rewrite it because the creative nonfiction approach had not yet been accepted in the academic community. According to her report, members of her dissertation committee said that while it was
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP]  Napoleon has written extensively about the history and issues surrounding the not-for-profit theater in America. Her book about Robert Kalfin and the Chelsea Theater Center is an in-depth history of the life of a theater in the 1960s and 1970s. Chelsea on the Edge: The Adventures of an American Theater (1991) describes on- and off-stage dramas, detailing internal conflicts when a theater that was the darling of critics and audiences was forced to downsize because of changes in funding to the arts. Hal Prince wrote the foreword to the book that found a readership among working artists both because it is one of the first complex studies of
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP]  "I have vivid memories of Bob Kalfin. His laughter, enthusiasm, and intensity. He made us all feel special and a part of something important...This book is interesting to me because it explores group dynamics...How does one maintain an organization that is created out of the passion and spontaneity and chemistry of certain key individuals?" Glenn Close "A brightly written, thoroughly absorbing account of one of the most innovative theatrical companies of the last five decades. Clashing ideals, opposing personalities, economic hazards and withal superb and original productions are all part of Davi Napoleon's narrative and make up a beguiling chapter of our theatrical history." Thomas Lask, book reviewer The New York Times. "Bob Kalfin is a unique man and Chelsea on
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP] Davi Napoleon  Davi Napoleon, also known as Davida Skurnick and Davida Napoleon (born 1946), is an American theater historian and critic as well as a freelance feature writer. She is a regular contributor to "Live Design", a monthly magazine about entertainment design and designers. She is an expert on the not-for-profit theater in America and author of "". This book is a major study of the economic changes in the American not-for-profit theater and the impact of these on the art produced. She has written on social and political issues as well. Section::::Education and teaching. Napoleon did her undergraduate work in the College of Literature, Science and the Arts at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. She earned a BA in psychology while studying playwriting with Kenneth Thorpe Rowe, then did a master's degree at Michigan in early childhood education. She went on to New York University,  and graduated with an MA in drama and a Ph.D. in performance studies.</ref>   In the summer of 1977, Napoleon honed her critical skills at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center's National Critics Institute in Waterford, CT, which she attended on a National Endowment for the Arts grant.  Napoleon taught at Albion College in Albion, MI, and Eastern Michigan University. She has directed plays at Albion College, Washtenaw Community College in Michigan, and at small theaters in Michigan and New York.
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP] Steve Edge  Steve Edge (born 2 November 1972) is an English actor, writer and former stand-up comedian. He is most famous for his work on "Starlings", "Phoenix Nights", "The Cup", "The Visit", "Peep Show", "Benidorm" and the satirical magazine show "Star Stories".
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP] Chelsea on the Edge  Chelsea on the Edge: The Adventures of an American Theater (1991) is a book by Davi Napoleon about the onstage triumphs and the offstage turmoil at the Chelsea Theater Center of Brooklyn. It includes biographies of the three co-directors, Robert Kalfin, Michael David, and Burl Hash, and anecdotes about behind-the-scenes activities at the Chelsea.  It is also a history of the funding crisis for the arts in America. It explores the theater's socioeconomic milieu in the 1970s. There are stories about attempts to censor the arts and describing increasing anti-arts sentiment in this country.  The book features a foreword by Broadway director and producer Harold Prince. Prince discusses the problems of maintaining an art theater in a commercial society.  It is written in the style of a novel, even though it is a non-fiction work. The model for the book is Voltaire's "Candide".  This book was one of a handful on the forefront of the field of creative non-fiction. Three years after its publication, in 1994, the Creative Nonfiction Foundation was established. The author reports that when she submitted a draft of the work as a doctoral dissertation, she was asked to rewrite it because the creative nonfiction approach had not yet been accepted in the academic community. According to her report, members of her dissertation committee said that while it was thorough and accurate, they felt they were reading a novel; they asked her to make changes in the style so that it no longer met the criteria of creative nonfiction. She did so in order to get her doctorate, but submitted the earlier draft to publishers. The chapter titles, written in the style of Voltaire's 'Candide' (listed below), were particularly controversial.  The Chelsea Theater Center was founded in 1965 and closed in 1986. It was in residence at the Brooklyn Academy of Music from 1968 to 1978. Before and after that time, it worked in theaters in Manhattan, mainly the Westside Theater.  Glenn Close, Frank Langella, Christopher Lloyd and Meryl Streep were among the actors who worked at the Chelsea. Directors included Des McAnuff, Hal Prince, John Hirsch, and Alan Schneider.  In 1965, when Robert Kalfin founded the Chelsea, there were few nonprofit theaters in New York. During the next ten years, new theaters opened, funding sources decreased, and costs rose. Many nonprofit theaters started to do conventional work that would attract audiences. Kalfin and his partners, David and Hash, continued to do innovative work.  Critics often said that the Chelsea stretched the boundaries of theater. Spectators subscribed to seasons before they knew what the Chelsea would produce the following year. On the other hand, there were many clashes behind the scenes.
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP] The Seed (2021 film)  The Seed is the 2021 body horror feature film directorial debut of Sam Walker, who also wrote the script. The movie premiered in the United States at Beyond Fest, after which it was released to Shudder as one of its original films.
Who is the author of Chelsea on the Edge? [SEP] Chelsea, Massachusetts  Chelsea is a city in Suffolk County, Massachusetts, United States, directly across the Mystic River from the city of Boston. As of the 2020 census, Chelsea had a population of 40,787. With a total area of just 2.46 square miles, Chelsea is the smallest city in Massachusetts in terms of total area. It is the second most densely populated city in Massachusetts, behind Somerville, and is the city with the second-highest percentage of Latino residents in Massachusetts, behind Lawrence.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]  Men and Women is an American play written by David Belasco and Henry Churchill de Mille. It was featured on Broadway in 1890, opening at Proctor's Twenty-Third Street Theater on October 21, 1890. The cast included Maude Adams. It proved successful with audiences, and played for over 200 performances. It was adapted to a silent film of the same name in 1914.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]  His newest book and his first in fifteen years, What Men Still Don't Know About Women, Relationships, and Love, synthesizes the major points that he wrote about in his seven previous books, as he explores contemporary issues that confront men in their relationships with women and family. While originally seen as an author of men’s books, his writing has also become popular among women. His last two books, What Men Really Want and Men’s Secrets solidified a base of female readers that had previously embraced The Hazards of Being Male and The New Male-Female Relationship. His first book, Creative Aggression, co-authored with Dr. George R. Bach, became a national best-seller and
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]  sought for, I went to work". "Men and Women" (1824), his first feminist essay, recalls the eighteenth-century priority of female education: "Wait until women are educated like men—treated like men—and permitted to talk freely, without being put to shame, because they are women". At that future time, he posited that the greatest of male writers "will be equalled by women". Going further than his predecessors on intellectual equality, he "maintain[ed] that women are not inferior to men, but only unlike men, in their intellectual properties" and "would have women treated like men, of common sense." The article more fully explores
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]  Father: Modern Evangelicals Reinvent the Doctrine of the Trinity (2006) ; Stanley Grenz, author of Women in the Church (1995) ; Mimi Haddad, President of CBE International, (2009-present), Adjunct Associate Professor of Historical Theology at Fuller Theological Seminary; co-author of Is Gender Equality a Biblical Ideal? (2015), editor and contributing author of Global Voices on Biblical Equality: Women and Men Serving Together in the Church (2008) ; Trevor Huddleston ; Eddie L. Hyatt, D.Min., author of Paul, Women and the Church (2016) ; Craig S. Keener, author of Paul, Women and Wives (1992) ; Paul King Jewett, author of Man as Male and Female (1975) and The Ordination of Women (1980) ; Scot McKnight, Karl A. Olsson Professor in Religious Studies at North Park University; author of The Blue
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]  'Are Men Necessary? When Sexes Collide' is a book written by American author and The New York Times columnist Maureen Dowd. The book was not well received by critics, unlike her previous book Bushworld: Enter at Your Own Risk.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP] Women and Men  Women and Men is Joseph McElroy's sixth novel. Published in 1987 (with a 1986 copyright), it is 1192 pages long. Somewhat notably, because of its size, the uncorrected proof was issued in two volumes.  The size and complexity of the novel have led it to be compared with "Ulysses", "The Recognitions", and "Gravity's Rainbow".  The novel is 16th on the Wikipedia list of longest novels, and seventh among novels written in English, and the longest ever written in North America.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP] Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus  Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus (1992) is a book written by American author and relationship counselor John Gray, after he had earned degrees in meditation and taken a correspondence course in psychology. The book states that most common relationship problems between men and women are a result of fundamental psychological differences between the sexes, which the author exemplifies by means of its eponymous metaphor: that men and women are from distinct planets—men from Mars and women from Venus—and that each sex is acclimated to its own planet's society and customs, but not to those of the other. One example is men's complaint that if they offer solutions to problems that women bring up in conversation, the women are not necessarily interested in solving those problems, but mainly want to talk about them. The book asserts each sex can be understood in terms of distinct ways they respond to stress and stressful situations.  The book has sold more than 15 million copies and, according to a CNN report, it was the "highest ranked work of non-fiction" of the 1990s, spending 121 weeks on the bestseller list. The book and its central metaphor have become a part of popular culture and the foundation for the author's subsequent books, recordings, seminars, theme vacations, one-man Broadway show, TV sitcom, workout videos, a podcast, men's and ladies' apparel lines, fragrances, travel guides and his-and-hers salad dressings.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP] John Gray (American author)  John Gray (born December 28, 1951) is an American relationship counselor, lecturer and author. In 1969, he began a nine-year association with Maharishi Mahesh Yogi before beginning his career as an author and personal relationship counselor. In 1992 he published the book "Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus", which became a long-term best seller and formed the central theme of all his subsequent books and career activities. His books have sold millions of copies.
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP]
Who is the author of Men and Women? [SEP] Men Without Women (short story collection)  Men Without Women (1927) is the second collection of short stories written by American author Ernest Hemingway (July 21, 1899 – July 2, 1961). The volume consists of 14 stories, 10 of which had been previously published in magazines. It was published in October 1927, with a first print-run of approximately 7600 copies at $2.  The subject matter of the stories in the collection includes bullfighting, prizefighting, infidelity, divorce, and death. "The Killers", "Hills Like White Elephants", and "In Another Country" are considered to be among Hemingway's better works.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP]  Slightly before the release of the film, per the era's customary timing, a novelization of the screenplay was released by Popular Library. The author was Michael Avallone.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP]  The film was released on April 8, 2016, by Starz Digital.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (DRCD 041, Detour Records, 2002)
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP]  The film was released on DVD on January 25, 2005.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP]  Credits adapted from CD single liner notes.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (Joe Jackson song)  "One More Time" is a song by the British new wave musician Joe Jackson. It was released as the third single from his debut album, "Look Sharp!", in 1979. Inspired by a breakup Jackson had, the song features a guitar riff and lyrics detailing a collapsing relationship.  "One More Time" was released as a single, but did not see any chart success. The song has since been highlighted as one of the best off "Look Sharp!" and Graham Maby's bassline has been singled out as praiseworthy.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (Daft Punk song)  "One More Time" is a song by the French electronic music duo Daft Punk, released as a single from their second studio album, "Discovery" (2001), on 13 November 2000. It is a French house song featuring a stylistically Auto-Tuned vocal performance by Romanthony. The music video forms part of the 2003 anime film, "". "One More Time" reached number one on the French Singles Chart, number two on the UK Singles Chart, and number 61 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100.  "The Village Voice"s Pazz & Jop annual year-end critics' poll named "One More Time" one of the best songs of the year. It was named one of the greatest songs of the decade by "Pitchfork", and "Rolling Stone" named it one of "The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time". "Mixmag" readers voted it the greatest dance record of all time.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] One Last Time (Ariana Grande song)  "One Last Time" is a song recorded by American singer Ariana Grande for her second studio album "My Everything". It was written by David Guetta, Savan Kotecha, Giorgio Tuinfort, Rami Yacoub, and Carl Falk. The song was produced by the latter two, with Tuinfort serving as a co-producer and Ilya serving both as a co-producer and vocal producer. "One Last Time" was first released on the iTunes Store on August 22, 2014, as the second promotional single from the album. On February 10, 2015, the song was sent to contemporary hit radio as the fifth and final single from the album. A French version of the song featuring French singer Kendji Girac, alternatively titled "Attends-moi", was released on February 16, 2015, in France, Belgium and Switzerland. It is also included on the deluxe version of Girac's debut studio album "Kendji" (2015). An Italian version of the song featuring Italian rapper Fedez was released on May 26, 2015, only in Italy.  "One Last Time" is a dance-pop and EDM song. Its instrumentation consists of sampled drums and a synth line. The single reached the top-twenty in twelve countries, including Australia, Canada, France, the United Kingdom and the United States, where it became Grande's sixth top-twenty single on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. The single's peak of number 13 on the US "Billboard" Hot 100 ended Grande's streak of consecutive top ten hits from 2014. It was later certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) and Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA).  The song's accompanying music video was released on February 15, 2015, and was directed by Max Landis. The music video is visually presented as a found footage, similar to Landis' previous work. The video faced controversy due to its similarity to the music video for the Australian band SAFIA's single "You Are the One", with Grande and Landis being accused of intellectual property theft. Grande promoted the song with a live performance on "The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon", the 2015 NBA All-Star Game halftime show, and during her first world tour, The Honeymoon Tour (2015).  Grande re-released "One Last Time" as a charity single in June 2017, following the Manchester Arena bombing at her concert the previous month. This resulted in the song reaching a new peak of number 2 on the UK Singles Chart following the One Love Manchester concert, as well as reaching a new peak of number 15 in the Irish Singles Chart and peaked at number one in Scotland. Grande donated all proceeds from the re-release to the We Love Manchester Emergency Fund to aid the victims of the bombing and their families. Overall, the song reached a top-ten peak in Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Lebanon, the Netherlands, Slovakia, the United Kingdom and the top-twenty of Australia, Canada, Denmark, Ireland, Spain and the United States.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] ...Baby One More Time (song)  "...Baby One More Time" is the debut single of American singer Britney Spears from her debut studio album of the same title (1999). It was written by Max Martin and produced by Martin and Rami. Released on September 28, 1998, by Jive Records, the song became a worldwide hit, topping the charts in at least 22 countries, including the United Kingdom, where it earned triple-platinum certification from the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) and was the country's best-selling single of 1999. The song is one of the best-selling singles of all time, with over 10 million copies sold.  An accompanying music video, directed by Nigel Dick, features Spears as a high school student who starts to sing and dance around the school, while watching her love interest from afar. In 2010, the music video for "...Baby One More Time" was voted the third most influential video in the history of pop music, in a poll held by Jam!. In 2011, "...Baby One More Time" was voted by "Billboard" to be the best music video of the 1990s. It has been featured on all of her greatest hits and other compilation albums. In 2020, "Rolling Stone" named "...Baby One More Time" as the greatest debut single of all time.<ref name=rsdebut/> In 2021, the song was ranked at number 205 on the list of "Rolling Stone"s 500 Greatest Songs of All Time.  Spears has performed "...Baby One More Time" in a number of live appearances and during all of her concert tours. The song was nominated for Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 42nd Annual Grammy Awards (2000), and has been included in lists by "Blender", "Rolling Stone" and VH1. It has been noted for redefining the sound of late 1990s music. Spears has named "...Baby One More Time" as one of her favorite songs from her catalog. It was also the final song to be played on the BBC's music programme "Top of the Pops" in the 1990s. It is also featured in the 2011 dance video game by Ubisoft, "Just Dance 3". In 2018, readers of German teen magazine "Bravo" voted "...Baby One More Time" to be the biggest hit since its first music compilation was released in 1992.
Who is the author of One More Time? [SEP] One More Time (book)  One More Time is a 1986 memoir by comedian Carol Burnett. It was published by Random House and became a "New York Times" non-fiction bestseller.  Burnett spent her childhood in a Depression-scarred Hollywood neighborhood, where she lived in a dingy single-room apartment with her grandmother. The child of alcoholic parents - a mother who fantasized about success in Hollywood and a father who eventually was committed to a public sanatorium - she constantly daydreamed about a show business career while at the same time realizing the odds of achieving one were very much against her, until a mysterious benefactor financed her move to New York City. In this book, she presents a coming of age tale that's humorous, heartbreaking, and hopeful.  The book served as the basis for the play "Hollywood Arms", which Burnett co-wrote with her daughter Carrie Hamilton.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP]  The Unknown is the fourteenth book in the Animorphs series, written by K.A. Applegate. It is narrated by Cassie.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP]  Unknown is an anthology of fantasy fiction short stories edited by Stanley Schmidt, the fifth of a number of anthologies drawing their contents from the classic magazine Unknown of the 1930s-1940s. It was first published in paperback by Baen Books in October 1988. The book collects nine tales by various authors, together with an introduction by the editor.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP]  The Unknown is an anthology of fantasy fiction short stories edited by D. R. Bensen and illustrated by Edd Cartier, the second of a number of anthologies drawing their contents from the American magazine Unknown of the 1930s-1940s. It was first published in paperback by Pyramid Books in April 1963. It was reprinted by the same publisher in October 1970, and by Jove/HBJ in August 1978 A companion anthology, The Unknown Five, was issued in 1964. The book collects eleven tales by various authors, together with a foreword by Isaac Asimov and an introduction by the editor.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP]  Lincoln the Unknown is a biography of Abraham Lincoln, written in 1932 by Dale Carnegie. It is published by Dale Carnegie and Associates, and given out as a prize in the Dale Carnegie Course.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP]  Unknown Man #89 is a crime novel written by Elmore Leonard, published in 1977, just after his novel Swag, and preceding The Hunted. It is a sequel to The Big Bounce.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP] Presents Author Unknown  Presents Author Unknown (sometimes simply, Author Unknown) is the debut studio album by Jason Falkner (formerly of The Three O'Clock, Jellyfish, and The Grays), released on August 13, 1996 by Elektra Entertainment.  Save for the string arrangements, and a guitar overdub by Alain Johannes on the track "Miracle Medicine", Falkner performs every instrument on the album.  The album was supported by singles for the songs "I Live", "Miracle Medicine", and "Follow Me". Despite receiving critical acclaim from contemporary critics, the album was a commercial disappointment, which Falkner has attributed to a lack of promotion from his label Elektra.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP] Authorship of the Epistle to the Hebrews  The Epistle to the Hebrews of the Christian Bible is one of the New Testament books whose canonicity was disputed. Traditionally, Paul the Apostle was thought to be the author. However, since the third century this has been questioned, and the consensus among most modern scholars is that the author is unknown.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP] Authorship of the Bible  Table I gives an overview of the periods and dates ascribed to the various books of the Bible. Tables II, III and IV outline the conclusions of the majority of contemporary scholars on the composition of the Hebrew Bible and the Protestant Old Testament, the deuterocanonical works (also called the Apocrypha), and the New Testament. Some books are considered pseudepigrapha - the person traditionally cited as the author is not the person who actually wrote the text; for some books there appear to have been multiple authors.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP] Anonymous work  Anonymous works are works, such as art or literature, that have an anonymous, undisclosed, or unknown creator or author. In the case of very old works, the author's name may simply be lost over the course of history and time. There are a number of reasons anonymous works arise.
Who is the author of Unknown? [SEP] Sir Gawain and the Green Knight  Sir Gawain and the Green Knight is a late 14th-century chivalric romance in Middle English. The author is unknown; the title was given centuries later. It is one of the best-known Arthurian stories, with its plot combining two types of folk motifs: the beheading game, and the exchange of winnings. Written in stanzas of alliterative verse, each of which ends in a rhyming bob and wheel; it draws on Welsh, Irish, and English stories, as well as the French chivalric tradition. It is an important example of a chivalric romance, which typically involves a hero who goes on a quest which tests his prowess. It remains popular in modern English renderings from J. R. R. Tolkien, Simon Armitage, and others, as well as through film and stage adaptations.  The story describes how Sir Gawain, a knight of King Arthur's Round Table, accepts a challenge from a mysterious "Green Knight" who dares any knight to strike him with his axe if he will take a return blow in a year and a day. Gawain accepts and beheads him, at which point, the Green Knight stands, picks up his head, and reminds Gawain of the appointed time. In his struggles to keep his bargain, Gawain demonstrates chivalry and loyalty until his honour is called into question by a test involving the lord and the lady of the castle at which he is a guest. The poem survives in one manuscript, "Cotton Nero A.x.", which also includes three religious narrative poems: "Pearl", "Cleanness", and "Patience". All four are written in a North West Midlands dialect of Middle English, and are thought to have been written by the same author, dubbed the "Pearl Poet" or "Gawain Poet".
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] Maybe Baby: 28 Writers Tell the Truth About Skepticism, Infertility, Baby Lust, Childlessness, Ambivalence, and How They Made the Biggest Decision of Their LivesHardcover – March 28, 2006 ; Reimagining Place ECOTONE The Evolution Issue Paperback – January 1, 2008
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP]  An author moves to the area with radical views on raising children.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP]  Penelope Jane Leach (née Balchin; born 19 November 1937), is a British psychologist who researches and writes extensively on parenting issues from a child development perspective. Leach is best known for her book Your Baby and Child: From Birth to Age Five, published in 1977, which has sold over two million copies to date and won the BMA award for "best medical book for general audiences" in 1998. Leach notes in the introduction to that book: "Whatever you are doing, however you are coping, if you listen to your child and to your own feelings, there will be something you can actually do to put things right or make the best of those that are wrong."
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP]  About What Was Lost: Twenty Writers on Miscarriage, Healing, and Hope, Plume, 2006 ; Sonya Huber, author of Opa Nobody, University of Nebraska Press, 2008 ; Amy Hudock, co-editor of Literary Mama: Reading for the Maternally Inclined, Seal Press, 2005 ; Susan Ito, co-editor of A Ghost at Heart's Edge: Stories and Poems of Adoption, North Atlantic Books, 1999 ; Suzanne Kamata, editor of Love You to Pieces: Creative Writers on Raising a Child with Special Needs, Beacon Press, 2008 ; Sharon Kraus, author of Strange Land, University Press of Florida, 2002 ; Ericka Lutz, author of On the Go with Baby, Sourcebooks, 2002 ; Jennifer Margulis, author of
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP]  Baby Halder (or Haldar) (born 1973) is an Indian author. Her most acclaimed work is her autobiography Aalo Aandhari (A Life Less Ordinary) (2002) which describes her harsh life growing up as a domestic worker, later translated into 21 languages, including 13 foreign languages.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] Baby Shark  "Baby Shark" is a children's song associated to a dance involving hand movements that originated as a campfire song dating back to at least the 20th century. In 2016, "Baby Shark" became very popular when Pinkfong, a South Korean entertainment company, released a version of the song with a YouTube music video that went viral across social media, online video and radio. In November 2020, Pinkfong's version became the most-viewed YouTube video of all time, with over 11 billion views. In January 2022, it became the first YouTube video to reach 10 billion views.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] Baby (Justin Bieber song)  "Baby" is a song by Canadian singer Justin Bieber, featuring American rapper Ludacris. It was released as the lead single on Bieber's debut album, "My World 2.0". The track was written by Bieber, Ludacris, Christina Milian, Tricky Stewart (who worked with Bieber on a previous single "One Time"), and R&B singer The-Dream, with production helmed by the latter two.  It was available for digital download on January 18, 2010. The song received airplay directly after release, officially impacting mainstream and rhythmic radio on January 26, 2010. The song has received positive reviews from critics who complimented the song's effective lyrics and chorus and commended Ludacris' part and the song's ability to have an urban twist.  The song was a commercial success, peaking at number one in France and Scotland, and charting in the top ten of the United Kingdom, Canada, the United States, Australia, Norway, Japan, Ireland, Hungary, Belgium (Flanders), Slovakia and New Zealand. "Baby" was the fourth most successful single of 2010 in France. The accompanying music video takes place in a mall/bowling-alley setting. The video features several cameos such as Drake, Lil Twist and Tinashe, in which Bieber chases after a girl. As of May 2013, the song has sold 3.9 million digital downloads in the United States and is certified Diamond in the country.<ref name="yahoo_may2013" />  The official music video is the 40th most-viewed video on YouTube and, as of July 2021, is the fourth-most-disliked YouTube video and the second most-disliked YouTube music video. It had been the most-viewed from July 12, 2010, when it surpassed the music video for "Bad Romance" by Lady Gaga, until November 24, 2012, when it was surpassed by the music video for "Gangnam Style" by Psy. Bieber performed the song several times, including "Saturday Night Live", and the ninth season of "American Idol". Bieber also performed an acoustic rendition of the remix version with Drake at the 2010 Juno Awards. The official remix in the United Kingdom features British hip-hop artist Chipmunk.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] The Baby-Sitters Club  The Baby-Sitters Club (also known as BSC) is a series of novels written by Ann M. Martin and published by Scholastic between 1986 and 2000, that sold 176 million copies. Martin wrote the first 35 novels in the series, but the subsequent novels were written by ghostwriters, such as Peter Lerangis. "The Baby-Sitters Club" is about a group of friends who live in the fictional, suburban town of Stoneybrook, Connecticut. These friends run a local babysitting service called "The Baby-Sitters Club". The original four members were Kristy Thomas (founder and president), Mary Anne Spier (secretary), Claudia Kishi (vice-president), and Stacey McGill (treasurer), but the number of members varies throughout the series. The novels are told in first-person narrative and deal with issues such as illness, moving, and divorce.  As the series progressed, Dawn Schafer (Alternate Officer), Mallory Pike and Jessi Ramsey (Junior Officers), Logan Bruno (Associate Member), Shannon Kilbourne (second Alternate Officer), and Abby Stevenson (replacement Alternate Officer for Dawn) joined the club.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] Baby Halder  Baby Halder (or Haldar) (born 1973) is an Indian author. Her best known work is her autobiography "Aalo Aandhari (A Life Less Ordinary)" (2002) which describes her harsh life growing up as a domestic worker, later translated into 21 languages, including 13 foreign languages.
Who is the author of Baby? [SEP] For sale: baby shoes, never worn  "For sale: baby shoes, never worn." is a six-word story, popularly attributed to Ernest Hemingway, although the link to him is unlikely. It is an example of flash fiction.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP]  Time to Come is an anthology of science fiction and fantasy stories edited by American writer August Derleth. It was first published by Farrar, Straus and Young in 1954. The stories are all original to this anthology.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP]  Shall Come a Time is a novel by F. J. Thwaites.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP]  The Life of the World to Come (2004) is a science fiction novel by American writer Kage Baker, the fifth installment in the time travel series concerning the exploits of The Company.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] Foreword, by August Derleth ; "Butch", by Poul Anderson ; "The Pause", by Isaac Asimov ; "Keeper of the Dream", by Charles Beaumont ; "No Morning After", by Arthur C. Clarke ; "The Blight", by Arthur J. Cox ; "Hole in the Sky", by Irving Cox, Jr. ; "Jon’s World", by Philip K. Dick ; "The White Pinnacle", by Carl Jacobi ; "Winner Take All", by Ross Rocklynne ; "Paradise II", by Robert Sheckley ; "Phoenix", by Clark Ashton Smith ; "BAXBR/DAXBR", by Evelyn E. Smith
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP]  "The Life to Come" is a short story by English writer E. M. Forster, written in 1922 and published posthumously in The Life to Come (and Other Stories) in 1972. It was written into four chapters: Night, Evening, Day and Morning. In 2017 Surrey Opera gave the world premiere of The Life to Come, an opera in two acts by British composer Louis Mander, with libretto by Stephen Fry.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] The Wheel of Time  The Wheel of Time is a series of high fantasy novels by American author Robert Jordan, with Brandon Sanderson as a co-author for the final three novels. Originally planned as a six-book series at its debut in 1990, "The Wheel of Time" came to span 14 volumes, in addition to a prequel novel and two companion books. Jordan died in 2007 while working on what was planned to be the final volume in the series. He prepared extensive notes which enabled fellow fantasy author Brandon Sanderson to complete the final book, which grew into three volumes: "The Gathering Storm" (2009), "Towers of Midnight" (2010), and "A Memory of Light" (2013).  The series draws on numerous elements of both European and Asian mythology, most notably the cyclical nature of time found in Buddhism and Hinduism; the metaphysical concepts of balance, duality, and a respect for nature found in Taoism; the Abrahamic concepts of God and Satan; and Leo Tolstoy's "War and Peace".  "The Wheel of Time" is notable for its length, detailed imaginary world, and magic system, and its large cast of characters. The eighth through fourteenth books each reached number one on the "New York Times" Best Seller list. After its completion, the series was nominated for a Hugo Award. , the series has sold over 90 million copies worldwide, making it one of the best-selling epic fantasy series since "The Lord of the Rings". Its popularity has spawned a collectible card game, a video game, a roleplaying game, and a soundtrack album. A TV series adaptation produced by Sony Pictures and Amazon Studios premiered in 2021.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] The Time Machine  The Time Machine is a science fiction novella by H. G. Wells, published in 1895. The work is generally credited with the popularization of the concept of time travel by using a vehicle or device to travel purposely and selectively forward or backward through time. The term "time machine", coined by Wells, is now almost universally used to refer to such a vehicle or device.  Utilizing a frame story set in then-present Victorian England, Wells' text focuses on a recount of the otherwise anonymous Time Traveller's journey into the far future. A work of future history and speculative evolution, "Time Machine" is interpreted in modern times as a commentary on the increasing inequality and class divisions of Wells' era, which he projects as giving rise to two separate human species: the fair, childlike Eloi, and the savage, simian Morlocks, distant descendants of the contemporary upper and lower classes respectively. It is believed that Wells' depiction of the Eloi as a race living in plenitude and abandon was inspired by the utopic romance novel "News from Nowhere" (1890), though Wells' universe in the novel is notably more savage and brutal.  In his 1931 preface to the book, Wells wrote that "The Time Machine" seemed "a very undergraduate performance to its now mature writer, as he looks over it once more", though he states that "the writer feels no remorse for this youthful effort". However, critics have praised the novella's handling of its thematic concerns, with Marina Warner writing that the book was the most significant contribution to understanding before Sigmund Freud's "The Interpretation of Dreams", with the novel "[conveying] how close he felt to the melancholy seeker after a door that he once opened on to a luminous vision and could never find again".  "The Time Machine" has been adapted into two feature films of the same name, as well as two television versions and many comic book adaptations. It has also indirectly inspired many more works of fiction in many media productions.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] H. G. Wells  Herbert George Wells<ref name=SFE> "Wells, H. G.". Revised 18 May 2015. "The Encyclopedia of Science Fiction" (sf-encyclopedia.com). Retrieved 22 August 2015. Entry by 'JC/BS' John Clute and Brian Stableford.</ref>  In addition to his fame as a writer, he was prominent in his lifetime as a forward-looking, even prophetic social critic who devoted his literary talents to the development of a progressive vision on a global scale. A futurist, he wrote a number of utopian works and foresaw the advent of aircraft, tanks, space travel, nuclear weapons, satellite television and something resembling the World Wide Web. His science fiction imagined time travel, alien invasion, invisibility, and biological engineering. Brian Aldiss referred to Wells as the "Shakespeare of science fiction", while Charles Fort called him a "wild talent".  Wells rendered his works convincing by instilling commonplace detail alongside a single extraordinary assumption per work – dubbed "Wells's law" – leading Joseph Conrad to hail him in 1898 with "O Realist of the Fantastic!". His most notable science fiction works include "The Time Machine" (1895), which was his first novel, "The Island of Doctor Moreau" (1896), "The Invisible Man" (1897), "The War of the Worlds" (1898), the military science fiction "The War in the Air" (1907), and the dystopian "When the Sleeper Wakes" (1910). Novels of social realism such as "Kipps" (1905) and "The History of Mr Polly" (1910), which describe lower-middle-class English life, led to the suggestion that he was a worthy successor to Charles Dickens, but Wells described a range of social strata and even attempted, in "Tono-Bungay" (1909), a diagnosis of English society as a whole. Wells was nominated for the Nobel Prize in Literature four times.<ref name="Nobel nominations"/>  Wells's earliest specialised training was in biology, and his thinking on ethical matters took place in a Darwinian context. He was also an outspoken socialist from a young age, often (but not always, as at the beginning of the First World War) sympathising with pacifist views. In his later years, he wrote less fiction and more works expounding his political and social views, sometimes giving his profession as that of journalist. Wells was a diabetic and co-founded the charity The Diabetic Association (known today as Diabetes UK) in 1934.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] Time (magazine)  Time (stylized in all caps) is an American news magazine based in New York City. For nearly a century, it was published weekly, but starting in March 2020 it transitioned to every other week. It was first published in New York City on March 3, 1923, and for many years it was run by its influential co-founder, Henry Luce. A European edition ("Time Europe", formerly known as "Time Atlantic") is published in London and also covers the Middle East, Africa, and, since 2003, Latin America. An Asian edition ("Time Asia") is based in Hong Kong. The South Pacific edition, which covers Australia, New Zealand, and the Pacific Islands, is based in Sydney.  Since 2018, "Time" has been published by Time USA, LLC, owned by Marc Benioff, who acquired it from Meredith Corporation.
Who is the author of Time to Come? [SEP] A Wrinkle in Time  A Wrinkle in Time is a young adult science fantasy novel written by American author Madeleine L'Engle. First published in 1962, the book won the Newbery Medal, the Sequoyah Book Award, the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award, and was runner-up for the Hans Christian Andersen Award. The main characters – Meg Murry, Charles Wallace Murry, and Calvin O'Keefe – embark on a journey through space and time, from galaxy to galaxy, as they endeavor to rescue the Murrys' father and fight back The Black Thing that has intruded into several worlds.  The novel offers a glimpse into the war between light and darkness, and good and evil, as the young characters mature into adolescents on their journey. It is the first book in L'Engle's "Time Quintet", which follows the Murry family and O'Keefe.  L'Engle modeled the Murry family on her own. B.E. Cullinan noted that L'Engle created characters who "share common joy with a mixed fantasy and science fiction setting". The novel's scientific and religious undertones are therefore highly reflective of the life of L'Engle.  The book has inspired a 2003 television film directed by John Kent Harrison, and a 2018 theatrical film directed by Ava DuVernay, both produced by The Walt Disney Company.
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]  Template is a Canadian science fiction novel by Matthew Hughes, published by PS Publishing. It follows the adventures of a professional duelist who is drawn into a murder mystery. The novel explores differences between various cultures.
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]  Matthew Hughes has been called one of Canada's best science fiction writers and his novel Template has been considered to be one of his best novels. Another review noted that this novel is part detective story, part space opera and part investigation into the clash of cultures.
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]  Eric Freeman has publishing accolades for Head First HTML and CSS (ISBN: 978-0596159900) which he co-authored with Elisabeth Robson, and Head First Design Patterns (ISBN: 0-596-00712-4) also co-authored with Elisabeth Robson, Kathy Sierra and Bert Bates.
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]  The architecture of the Standard Template Library (STL) is largely the creation of Alexander Stepanov. In 1979 he began working out his initial ideas of generic programming and exploring their potential for revolutionizing software development. Although David Musser had developed and advocated some aspects of generic programming already by 1971, it was limited to a rather specialized area of software development (computer algebra).
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]  library vendors could of course develop their own implementations and market them as separate products or as selling points for their other wares. One of the first edition's authors, Atul Saini, was among the first to recognize the commercial potential and began exploring it as a line of business for his company, Modena Software Incorporated, even before STL had been fully accepted by the committee. The prospects for early widespread dissemination of STL were considerably improved with Hewlett-Packard's decision to make its implementation freely available on the Internet in August 1994. This implementation, developed by Stepanov, Lee, and Musser during the standardization process, became the basis of many implementations offered by compiler and library vendors today.
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]
Who is the author of Template? [SEP]
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP]  American Dream, Global Nightmare is a book by Ziauddin Sardar and Merryl Wyn Davies (Icon Books, 2004). It presents the neoconservative ideology of Pax Americana as ten laws.
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP] American Dream, Global Nightmare: The Dilemma of U.S. Human Rights Policy, Norton, 1980, 272 pp, ISBN: 9780393013634 ; Long Dark Night of the Soul: The American Intellectual Left and the Vietnam War, Harper Collins, 1974, 249 pp, ISBN: 9780060145125
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP]  Ludwig is the editor of The Vanishing American Dream, a book that provides comments from experts across the political spectrum on the economic challenges facing lower- and middle-income Americans. The book examines how traditional economic measures like the unemployment rate and GDP are masking a crisis for millions of lower- and middle-income families, who struggle to afford health care, housing, and education and occupy jobs that cannot help them reverse the downward slide. The book, to be published September 22, 2020, was the outcome of a 2019 Yale Law School symposium organized by Ludwig. It includes commentary from 23 experts,
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP]  An American Dream is a 1965 novel by American author Norman Mailer. It was published by Dial Press. Mailer wrote it in serialized form for Esquire, consciously attempting to resurrect the methodology used by Charles Dickens and other earlier novelists, with Mailer writing each chapter against monthly deadlines. The book is written in a poetic style heavy with metaphor that creates unique and hypnotising narrative and dialogue. The novel's action takes place over 32 hours in the life of its protagonist Stephen Rojack. Rojack is a decorated war-hero, former congressman, talk-show host, and university professor. He is depicted as the metaphorical embodiment of the American Dream.
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP]  Broken Sleep: an American Dream is the second novel by American writer Bruce Bauman, published in 2015. It follows the exploits of the powerful Savant family, including rock star-cum-US presidential candidate Alchemy Savant, his half-brother Moses Teumer, and their brilliant but insane mother Salome Savant. The novel chronicles 60 years of U.S. politics and pop culture, from the aftermath of World War II leading up to a speculative 2020 presidential election. The novel touches on many topics, including rock music, postmodern art, celebrity, insanity, terminal illness, the Holocaust, and United States presidential election politics. It makes political references to the fake news website phenomenon, the rise of a third party to save a failing two-party system, and a grass-roots movement for partition and secession in California. Its discussion of Jewish-American identity has led to its categorization as a Jewish literary novel in the vein of Saul Bellow.
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP] American Dream  The American Dream is the national ethos of the United States, a set of ideals including representative democracy, rights, liberty, and equality, in which freedom is interpreted as the opportunity for individual prosperity and success, as well as upward social mobility for oneself and their children, achieved through hard work in a capitalist society with few barriers.  The term "American Dream" was coined by James Truslow Adams in 1931, saying that "life should be better and richer and fuller for everyone, with opportunity for each according to ability or achievement" regardless of social class or circumstances of birth.  Proponents of the American Dream often claim that its tenets originate from the United States Declaration of Independence, which states that "all men are created equal" with the right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness". The Preamble to the U.S. Constitution is used similarly. It states that the Constitution's purpose is to, in part, "secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity".  Throughout American history, there have been critics of its national ethos. Some critics point out that American focus on individualism and capital results in materialism, consumerism and a lack of worker solidarity. In 2015, only 10.5 percent of American workers were members of a labor union. The American Dream has also been criticized as a product of American exceptionalism, as it does not acknowledge the hardships many Americans face, namely in regards to the legacies of American slavery and Native American genocide, as well as other examples of discriminatory violence.   Belief in the American Dream is often inversely associated with rates of national dissolutionment. Evidence indicates that upward economic mobility has declined and income inequality has risen in the United States in recent decades.
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP] Merryl Wyn Davies  Merryl Wyn Davies (23 June 1948 – 1 February 2021) was a Welsh Muslim scholar, writer and broadcaster who specialised in Islam, and the co-author of books and articles with Ziauddin Sardar. An exponent of Islamic anthropology, she was director of the Muslim Institute, London.
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP] Dusty Rhodes  Virgil Riley Runnels Jr. (October 11, 1945 – June 11, 2015), better known as "The American Dream" Dusty Rhodes, was an American professional wrestler, booker, and trainer who most notably worked for the National Wrestling Alliance, Jim Crockett Promotions, World Championship Wrestling, and the World Wrestling Federation, later known as the WWE. Rhodes is considered as one of the greatest wrestlers and talkers in the history of professional wrestling.  Rhodes was a three-time NWA World Heavyweight Champion, and during his time in Jim Crockett Promotions, later known as WCW, he was a United States Heavyweight Champion, and multi-time World Television, World Tag Team and World Six-Man Tag Team Champion. He also won many regional championships, and is one of seven men inducted into each of the WWE, WCW, Professional Wrestling, and "Wrestling Observer Newsletter" Halls of Fame. His sons, Dustin and Cody, both pursued careers in professional wrestling, currently performing for AEW and WWE, respectively.  Following his retirement from wrestling, he made occasional on-air appearances on WWE television and pay-per-views and worked as a backstage booker and producer in WWE's NXT developmental territory. Billed as "the son of a plumber", Rhodes did not have a typical wrestler's physique; his character was that of the "common man", known for the personality exhibited in his interviews. WWE chairman Vince McMahon remarked that no wrestler "personified the essence of charisma quite like Dusty Rhodes".
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP]
Who is the author of American Dream, Global Nightmare? [SEP] The Nightmare Before Christmas  The Nightmare Before Christmas (also known as Tim Burton's The Nightmare Before Christmas) is a 1993 American stop-motion animated musical dark fantasy film directed by Henry Selick (in his feature directorial debut) and produced and conceived by Tim Burton. It tells the story of Jack Skellington, the King of "Halloween Town", who stumbles upon "Christmas Town" and schemes to take over the holiday. Danny Elfman wrote the songs and score and provided the singing voice of Jack. The principal voice cast also includes Chris Sarandon, Catherine O'Hara, William Hickey, Ken Page, Paul Reubens, Glenn Shadix, and Ed Ivory.  "The Nightmare Before Christmas" originated in a poem written by Burton in 1982 while he was working as an animator at Walt Disney Productions. With the success of "Vincent" in the same year, Burton began to consider developing "The Nightmare Before Christmas" as either a short film or a half-hour television special, to no avail. Over the years, Burton's thoughts regularly returned to the project, and, in 1990, he made a development deal with Walt Disney Studios. Production started in July 1991 in San Francisco; Disney initially released the film through Touchstone Pictures because the studio believed the film would be "too dark and scary for kids".<ref name=Forbes20th/>  The film met with critical success upon release, earning praise for its animation (particularly the innovation of the stop-motion art form), characters, songs and score. While only a modest box office hit at first, it has since garnered a large cult following. It was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects, a first for an animated film, but lost to "Jurassic Park". The film has since been reissued by Walt Disney Pictures and was re-released annually in Disney Digital 3-D from 2006 until 2010.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP]  He is trained in typography and book design and he has been a published author and illustrator of children's books since 1979, with more than 140 published titles to date, selling all around the world.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] Attribution
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP]  John Patience is an English author and illustrator. He is best known for his Fern Hollow series of books for young children.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP]  Patience is a play written and published in 1998 by Jason Sherman (Doollie.com). It is about Reuben, who one day loses everything. The play follows a path similar to David Mamet's play Edmond. It traces a psychological journey through Reuben's head while he tries to figure out how everything happened. The play was written at a time when the story would hit home for a lot of middle-aged, middle-class men.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP]  The Patience Stone (Syngué sabour. Pierre de patience) is a 2008 novel by the French-Afghan writer Atiq Rahimi. It is also known as Stone of Patience. It received the Prix Goncourt.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] Patience Worth  Patience Worth was allegedly a spirit contacted by Pearl Lenore Curran (February 15, 1883 – December 2, 1937). This symbiotic relationship produced several novels, poetry and prose which Pearl Curran claimed were delivered to her through channelling the spirit of Patience Worth.  Psychologists and skeptics who have studied Curran's writings are in agreement that Patience was a fictitious creation of Curran.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] Patience (Guns N' Roses song)  "Patience" is a song by American rock band Guns N' Roses from their second studio album, "G N' R Lies" (1988), released as a single in April 1989. The song peaked at number four on the US "Billboard" Hot 100. The song is a ballad,<ref name="Ballad" /> played using three acoustic guitars and was recorded in a single session by producer Mike Clink. A music video of the song was shot and appears on the band's music video DVD, "Welcome to the Videos".  The motivation for the track is generally accepted to be the troublesome relationship between Axl Rose and his now ex-wife Erin Everly, though this was never stated in the album or interviews. According to bass guitarist Duff McKagan, "Axl came up with a great lyric, seemingly out of nowhere, that of course became the story and melody of that song." It has also been stated by the band that Stradlin wrote the song about his ex-girlfriend Angela Nicoletti McCoy.  Steven Adler did not record on the track, although in some live performances prior to release of the album, such as their performance at the Orange County Fair in New York in the summer of 1988, percussion (and electric instruments) were used.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] Patience Abbe  Patience Shorrock Abbe (July 22, 1924 – March 17, 2012) was a best-selling author as a tween & teen.<ref name=redding>"Writer Patience Abbe, 87, of Redding dies Best-seller recounted life in prewar Europe" "The Record Searchlight", March 18, 2012 </ref>
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] Patience (poem)  Patience (Middle English: "Pacience") is a Middle English alliterative poem written in the late 14th century. Its unknown author, designated the "Pearl Poet" or "Gawain-Poet", also appears, on the basis of dialect and stylistic evidence, to be the author of "Sir Gawain and the Green Knight", "Pearl", and "Cleanness" (all ca. 1360–1395) and may have composed "St. Erkenwald". This is thought to be true because the techniques and vocabulary of regional dialect of the unknown author is that of Northwest Midlands, located between Shropshire and Lancashire.  The manuscript, Cotton Nero A.x is in the British Library. The first published edition was in "Early English Alliterative Poems in the West Midland Dialect of the fourteenth century", printed by the Early English Text Society. Of Patience, considered the slightest of the four poems, its only manifest source is the Vulgate Bible. It also resembles Latin poems by Tertullian and Bishop Marbod. There are certain mannerisms found in Patience that Pearl does not have. For instance, both homilies clearly follow the same pattern: 1. statement of theme, 2. announcement of the text from the New Testament, 3. discussion of another passage from the New Testament in elucidation of that text, 4. and elaborate paraphrase of "exemplum" or "exempla", from the Old Testament.
Who is the author of Patience? [SEP] John Patience  John Patience is an English author and illustrator. He is best known for his "Fern Hollow" series of books for young children.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]  Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study is a book by the writer Idries Shah published by Octagon Press in 1977. A later edition was published in 2002. Shortly before he died, Shah stated that his books form a complete course that could fulfil the function he had fulfilled while alive. As such, Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study can be read as part of a whole course of study.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]  Based on university lectures at the New School for Social Research, New York, and the University of California, San Francisco, Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study deals with many of the problems of Sufic methods of study and those which militate against its effective progress in the modern world; notably the unrecognised assumptions which we make about ourselves and about learning and its process.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]  Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study was favourably received, the Books and Bookmen review commenting that; “It elaborates points found difficult in our culture because of sets of mind.” Asian Affairs wrote that it “contains serious warnings about the dangers of facile cult-formation”, while the Psychology Today review described the book as “an extraordinarily effective learning tool.”
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]  The Way of the Sufi was the best-selling follow-up introduction to Sufism by the writer Idries Shah after the publication of his first book on the subject, The Sufis. Whereas The Sufis eschewed academic norms such as footnotes and an index, The Way of the Sufi provided a full section of notes and a bibliography at the end of its first chapter, entitled "The Study of Sufism in the West". Shortly before he died, Shah stated that his books form a complete course that could fulfil the function he had fulfilled while alive. As such, The Way of the Sufi can be read as part of a whole course of study.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]  is as successful as this one in provoking interest in Sufism for the general reader." Richard C. Munn, reviewing the book in the Journal of the American Oriental Society, concluded that "One cannot approach this book either in the role of scholar or in the role of seeker (nut), for the author has cleverly blocked both these 'postural' approaches, much in the same way, one suspects, as a Sufi shaikh would. If the Sufi essence is untranslatable into book form, it naturally remains so, but Idries Shah, by 'playing' with the reader, and 'scattering' his points of information, has perhaps given the reader an inkling of Sufi 'experience'." German orientalist Annemarie Schimmel commented that The Sufis, along with Shah's other books, "should be avoided by serious students".
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP] Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study  Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study is a book by the writer Idries Shah published by Octagon Press in 1977. A later edition was published in 2002.  Shortly before he died, Shah stated that his books form a complete course that could fulfil the function he had fulfilled while alive. As such, "Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study" can be read as part of a whole course of study.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP] Idries Shah  Idries Shah (; , , ; 16 June 1924 – 23 November 1996), also known as Idris Shah, né Sayed Idries el-Hashimi (Arabic: سيد إدريس هاشمي) and by the pen name Arkon Daraul, was an Afghan author, thinker and teacher in the Sufi tradition. Shah wrote over three dozen books on topics ranging from psychology and spirituality to travelogues and culture studies.  Born in British India, the descendant of a family of Afghan nobles on his father's side and a Scottish mother, Shah grew up mainly in England. His early writings centred on magic and witchcraft. In 1960 he established a publishing house, Octagon Press, producing translations of Sufi classics as well as titles of his own. His seminal work was "The Sufis", which appeared in 1964 and was well received internationally. In 1965, Shah founded the Institute for Cultural Research, a London-based educational charity devoted to the study of human behaviour and culture. A similar organisation, the Institute for the Study of Human Knowledge (ISHK), was established in the United States under the directorship of Stanford University psychology professor Robert Ornstein, whom Shah appointed as his deputy in the U.S.  In his writings, Shah presented Sufism as a universal form of wisdom that predated Islam. Emphasizing that Sufism was not static but always adapted itself to the current time, place and people, he framed his teaching in Western psychological terms. Shah made extensive use of traditional teaching stories and parables, texts that contained multiple layers of meaning designed to trigger insight and self-reflection in the reader. He is perhaps best known for his collections of humorous Mulla Nasrudin stories.  Shah was at times criticized by orientalists who questioned his credentials and background. His role in the controversy surrounding a new translation of the "Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam", published by his friend Robert Graves and his older brother Omar Ali-Shah, came in for particular scrutiny. However, he also had many notable defenders, chief among them the novelist Doris Lessing. Shah came to be recognized as a spokesman for Sufism in the West and lectured as a visiting professor at a number of Western universities. His works have played a significant part in presenting Sufism as a form of spiritual wisdom approachable by individuals and not necessarily attached to any specific religion.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP] The Idries Shah Foundation  The Idries Shah Foundation (ISF) is an independent educational and cultural charity,  Based in London, England, the charity is primarily for the study, dissemination of knowledge, and promotion of Sufi arts, literature, culture and heritage, with special focus on the published works of Idries Shah.  Printed books, ebooks and audiobooks are being made available by the foundation's publishing arm, ISF Publishing.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP] Asceticism  Asceticism (; from the ) is a lifestyle characterized by abstinence from sensual pleasures, often for the purpose of pursuing spiritual goals. Ascetics may withdraw from the world for their practices or continue to be part of their society, but typically adopt a frugal lifestyle, characterised by the renunciation of material possessions and physical pleasures, and also spend time fasting while concentrating on the practice of religion or reflection upon spiritual matters. Various individuals have also attempted an ascetic lifestyle to free themselves from addictions, some of them particular to modern life, such as money, alcohol, tobacco, drugs, entertainment, sex, food, etc.  Asceticism has been historically observed in many religious traditions, including Buddhism, Jainism, Hinduism, Islam, Christianity, Judaism, Stoicism and Pythagoreanism and contemporary practices continue amongst some religious followers.<ref name =volume/>  Practitioners abandon sensual pleasures and lead an abstinent lifestyle, in the pursuit of redemption, salvation, or spirituality. Many ascetics believe the action of purifying the body helps to purify the soul, and thus obtain a greater connection with the Divine or find inner peace. This may take the form of rituals, the renunciation of pleasure, or self-mortification. However, ascetics maintain that self-imposed constraints bring them greater freedom in various areas of their lives, such as increased clarity of thought and the ability to resist potentially destructive temptations. Asceticism is seen in the ancient theologies as a journey towards spiritual transformation, where the simple is sufficient, the bliss is within, the frugal is plenty. and the Dionysian Mysteries, "vamachara", and the modern Western occult left-hand path traditions, openly reject ascetic practices and either focus on various types of hedonism or on the importance of family life, both rejecting celibacy.
Who is the author of Neglected Aspects of Sufi Study? [SEP]
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP]  Out of Season, was published in the fall of 2005. It was a Washington Post Favorite Book of the year as well. His seventh novel, Far as the Eye Can See, was released by Bloomsbury Press in November 2014. The Legend of Jesse Smoke, will be released in August 2016. Since 1975, Bausch has been a college professor, teaching creative writing, American literature, world literature, humanities, philosophy, and expository writing. For the balance of his career he has been teaching at Northern Virginia Community College. He has also taught at the Algonkian Writers Conference and served as a director on the board of the PEN/Faulkner Foundation.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP]  Evers published his first book, Ten Stories About Smoking,  (Picador) in 2011, which won The London Book Award.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP]  home, breathing with the assistance of an oxygen tank. In 2001, he contributed the essay "How to Quit Smoking in Fifty Years or Less" to Addicted: Notes from the Belly of the Beast, edited by Lorna Crozier and Patrick Lane, and published by Greystone Books. The essay was reprinted in September 2001 by The Globe and Mail as "Out of breath". He also wrote the essay "Life after smoking", which was published in 50+ Magazine in June 2001 and included in A Peter Gzowski Reader, published by McClelland and Stewart in October, 2001. The book is a collection of Gzowski's written works, commencing from his time as a writer for
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP]  Ashes to Ashes: America's Hundred-Year Cigarette War, the Public Health, and the Unabashed Triumph of Philip Morris, written by Richard Kluger and published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1996, won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP]  Robert Bausch (April 18, 1945 – October 9, 2018) was an American fiction writer, the author of nine novels and one collection of short stories. He was a Professor of English at Northern Virginia Community College, and he had taught at the University of Virginia, The American University, Johns Hopkins University, George Mason University, and the University of Maryland, Baltimore County. His fourth novel, A Hole in the Earth, was a New York Times Notable Book of the Year and a Washington Post Favorite Book of the Year. He was awarded the Fellowship of Southern Writers' award for fiction for his fifth novel, The Gypsy Man. In 2005 Harcourt published his sixth novel, Out of Season, which was a Washington Post favorite book of the year. His novel Far as the Eye Can See was released by Bloomsbury Press in fall 2014, and in August 2016, Bloomsbury published his last novel, The Legend of Jesse Smoke. In 2009, he was awarded the Dos Passos Prize in Literature. He was the twin brother of the author Richard Bausch.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP] Smoke on the Water  "Smoke on the Water" is a song by English rock band Deep Purple, first released from the band's sixth studio album "Machine Head" (1972), which chronicles the 1971 fire at Montreux Casino.   In a 2004 publication by "Rolling Stone" magazine "Smoke on the Water" was ranked number 434 on its list of the "500 Greatest Songs of All Time",<ref name="RollingStone" /> "Total Guitar" magazine's ranked "Smoke on the Water" number 4 on its "Greatest Guitar Riffs Ever",<ref name="BBC" /> and in March 2005, "Q" magazine placed "Smoke on the Water" at number 12 in its list of the 100 greatest guitar tracks.<ref name="QMagazine" />
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP] Tree of Smoke  Tree of Smoke is a 2007 novel by American author Denis Johnson which won the National Book Award for Fiction<ref name=nba2007/><ref name=wpost/> and was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.<ref name=pulitzer/> It is about a man named Skip Sands who joins the CIA in 1965, and begins working in Vietnam during the American involvement there. The time frame of the novel is from 1963 to 1970, with a coda set in 1983. One of the protagonists of "Tree of Smoke" is Bill Houston, who was the main character in Johnson's 1983 debut novel "Angels".  There are several references in the novel to the title phrase, which has Biblical origins in three cited passages: Song of Solomon 3:6; Book of Joel 2:30, 31; and Exodus 33:9, 10.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP] Smoking ban  Smoking bans, or smoke-free laws, are public policies, including criminal laws and occupational safety and health regulations, that prohibit tobacco smoking in certain spaces. The spaces most commonly affected by smoking bans are indoor workplaces and buildings open to the public such as restaurants, bars, office buildings, schools, retail stores, hospitals, libraries, transport facilities, and government buildings, in addition to public transport vehicles such as aircraft, buses, watercraft, and trains. However, laws may also prohibit smoking in outdoor areas such as parks, beaches, pedestrian plazas, college and hospital campuses, and within a certain distance from the entrance to a building, and in some cases, private vehicles and multi-unit residences.  The most common rationale cited for restrictions on smoking is the negative health effects associated with secondhand smoke (SHS), or the inhalation of tobacco smoke by persons who are not smoking. These include diseases such as heart disease, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The number of smoking bans around the world increased substantially in the late 20th century and early 21st century due to increased knowledge about these health risks. Many early smoking restrictions merely required the designation of non-smoking areas in buildings, but policies of this type became less common following evidence that they did not eliminate the health concerns associated with SHS.  Opinions on smoking bans vary. Many individuals and organizations such as the World Health Organization (WHO) support smoking bans on the basis that they improve health outcomes by reducing exposure to SHS and possibly decreasing the number of people who smoke, while others oppose smoking bans and assert that they violate individual and property rights and cause economic hardship, among other issues.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP] Smoke (Turgenev novel)  Smoke () is an 1867 novel by the Russian writer Ivan Turgenev (1818–1883) that tells the story of a love affair between a young Russian man and a young married Russian woman while also delivering the author's criticism of Russia and Russians of the period. The story takes place largely in the German resort town of Baden-Baden.
Who is the author of Smoke? [SEP] River of Smoke  River of Smoke (2011) is a novel by Indian novelist Amitav Ghosh. It is the second volume of the Ibis trilogy.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP]  The Great Perhaps is the fifth novel by Joe Meno. It was a winner of the Great Lakes Book Award for Fiction in 2009 and a New York Times Book Review Editor's Choice.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP]  His publishing house S. W. Partridge included Westerman in a series entitled 'The Great Adventure Series' along with Rowland Walker, author of Oscar Danby, V.C.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP]  Originally published in 54 volumes, The Great Books of the Western World covers categories including fiction, history, poetry, natural science, mathematics, philosophy, drama, politics, religion, economics, and ethics. Hutchins wrote the first volume, titled The Great Conversation, as an introduction and discourse on liberal education. Adler sponsored the next two volumes, "The Great Ideas: A Syntopicon", as a way of emphasizing the unity of the set and, by extension, of Western thought in general. A team of indexers spent months compiling references to such topics as "Man's freedom in relation to the will of God" and "The denial of void or vacuum in favor of a plenum". They grouped the topics into 102 chapters, for which Adler wrote the 102 introductions. Four colors identify each volume by subject area—Imaginative Literature, Mathematics and the Natural Sciences, History and Social Science, and Philosophy and Theology. The volumes contained the following works:
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP]  The Great Books of the Western World is a hardcover 60-volume collection (originally 54 volumes) of 517 individual works on the Great Books list. A prominent feature of the collection is a two-volume Syntopicon, meaning "a collection of topics", that includes essays written by Mortimer Adler on 102 "great ideas." Following each essay is an extensive outline of the idea with page references to relevant passages throughout the collection. The collection was published by Encyclopædia Britannica, Inc., which owns the copyright. Shortly after Adler retired from the Great Books Foundation in 1989, he served as editor-in-chief for the 1990 edition of the Great Books of the Western World for Encyclopædia Britannica, which included more Hispanic and female authors and, for the first time, works
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP] Going to Jericho; or, Sketches of Travel in Spain and the East (1868) ; Grant And Wilson: Speech Of The Hon. John F. Swift,Delivered At Platt's Hall, July 9, 1872 ; Robert Greathouse: An American Novel (1870) ; Robert Greathouse: A Story Of The Nevada Silver Mines (1878) ; The Present and Future of the University (1887) ; California a Republican state: Address to the Republicans of California (1888) He is considered one of the writers of the Sagebrush School with Joseph T. Goodman, Mark Twain, Fred H. Hart, Henry Rust Mighels, Dan DeQuille, Samuel Post Davis, John Franklin Swift, Charles Carroll Goodwin, Joseph Wasson, Rollin M. Daggett. and others. Bret Hart commented that "of the three humorous writers: Twain, Miller, and Swift, the last was the greatest genius.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP] The Great Perhaps  The Great Perhaps is the fifth novel by Joe Meno. It was a winner of the Great Lakes Book Award for Fiction in 2009 and a New York Times Book Review Editor's Choice.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP] Joe Meno  Joe Meno (born 1974) is an American novelist, writer of short fiction, playwright, and music journalist based in Chicago.
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP] Looking for Alaska  Looking for Alaska is American author John Green‘s debut novel, published in March 2005 by Dutton Juvenile. Based on his time at Indian Springs School, Green wrote the novel as a result of his desire to create meaningful young adult fiction.<ref name=":7" /> The characters and events of the plot are grounded in Green's life, while the story itself is fictional.<ref name=":7" />  "Looking for Alaska" follows the novel's main character and narrator Miles Halter, or "Pudge," to boarding school where he goes to seek a "Great Perhaps," the famous last words of François Rabelais. Throughout the 'Before' section of the novel, Miles and his friends Chip "The Colonel" Martin, Alaska Young, and Takumi Hikohito grow very close and the section culminates in Alaska's death. In the second half of the novel, Miles and his friends work to discover the missing details of the night Alaska died. While struggling to reconcile Alaska's death, Miles grapples with the last words of Simón Bolívar and the meaning of life, leaving the conclusion to these topics unresolved.  "Looking for Alaska" is a coming-of-age novel that touches on themes of meaning, grief, hope, and youth-adult relationships. The novel won the 2006 Michael L. Printz Award from the American Library Association, and led the association's list of most-challenged books in 2015 due to profanity and a sexually explicit scene. Schools in Kentucky, Tennessee, and several other states have attempted to place bans on the book. In 2005, Paramount Pictures received the rights to produce a film adaptation of "Looking for Alaska"; however, the film failed to reach production.<ref name=":9" /> "Looking for Alaska", a television miniseries, premiered as a Hulu Original on October 18, 2019.<ref name=":10" />
Who is the author of The Great Perhaps? [SEP] Robert Bauval  Robert Bauval (born 5 March 1948) is a Belgian author and lecturer, perhaps best known for the fringe Orion Correlation Theory regarding the Giza pyramid complex.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP]  Hooper is the author of two books published by Smithsonian Books/HarperCollins. The first, Dark Cosmos: In Search of our Universe’s Missing Mass and Energy (2006) was named a notable book by Seed Magazine. His second book, Nature’s Blueprint: Supersymmetry and the Search for a Unified Theory of Matter and Force (2008), was called "essential reading" by New Scientist. Hooper's third book is At the Edge of Time: Exploring the Mysteries of Our Universe's First Seconds (2019), published by Princeton University Press.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP]  Fraknoi is the author or co-author of 14 books in the field of astronomy. He was the lead author of Voyages through the Universe, an introductory college astronomy textbook published by Brooks-Cole, which went through three editions. In the 1980s, he co-edited with Byron Preiss two collections of science articles and science fiction stories, "The Universe" and "The Planets." With Sidney Wolff, Fraknoi founded and was co-editor of the first on-line journal devoted to astronomy education, "Astronomy Education Review". He edited two collections of resources for K-12 teachers, The Universe at Your Fingertips and More Universe at Your Fingertips published through the Astronomical Society of
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP]  The Stars Around Us is a 1970 paperback original anthology of previously published science fiction stories.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP]  Lincoln Kinnear Barnett (1909–1979) was an editor and author, most notably at Life Magazine for many years. Lincoln Barnett wrote a number of books, including "The Universe and Doctor Einstein", "The World We Live In", and "The Treasure of Our Tongue". The Universe and Doctor Einstein is a layman's introduction to the theory of relativity. It includes a foreword by Albert Einstein, and has been reprinted several times. His work popularizing science subjects included consulting work on the film Journey to the Center of the Earth.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP]  The Universe Maker is a science fiction novel by American author A.E. van Vogt, published in 1953 by Ace Books as an Ace Double with The World of Null-A. It is based on the author's "The Shadow Men" (Startling Stories, 1950). Set 400 years into the future, the main character is Morton Cargill, a U.S. Army officer who served in the Korean War.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP] The Universe Around Us  The Universe Around Us is a science book written by English astrophysicist Sir James Jeans, first published in 1929 by the Syndics of the Cambridge University Press.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP] Natural science  Natural science is one of the branches of science concerned with the description, understanding and prediction of natural phenomena, based on empirical evidence from observation and experimentation. Mechanisms such as peer review and repeatability of findings are used to try to ensure the validity of scientific advances.  Natural science can be divided into two main branches: life science and physical science. Life science is alternatively known as biology, and physical science is subdivided into branches: physics, chemistry, earth science, and astronomy. These branches of natural science may be further divided into more specialized branches (also known as fields). As empirical sciences, natural sciences use tools from the formal sciences, such as mathematics and logic, converting information about nature into measurements which can be explained as clear statements of the "laws of nature".  Modern natural science succeeded more classical approaches to natural philosophy, usually traced to Taoists traditions in Asia and in the West to ancient Greece. Galileo, Descartes, Bacon, and Newton debated the benefits of using approaches which were more mathematical and more experimental in a methodical way. Still, philosophical perspectives, conjectures, and presuppositions, often overlooked, remain necessary in natural science. Systematic data collection, including discovery science, succeeded natural history, which emerged in the 16th century by describing and classifying plants, animals, minerals, and so on. Today, "natural history" suggests observational descriptions aimed at popular audiences.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP] James Jeans  Sir James Hopwood Jeans <ref name="frs"/> (11 September 187716 September 1946<ref name="Findmypast" />) was an English physicist, astronomer and mathematician.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP] Across the Universe  "Across the Universe" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles. It was written by John Lennon and credited to Lennon–McCartney. The song first appeared on the 1969 various artists' charity compilation album "No One's Gonna Change Our World" and later, in a different form, on their 1970 album "Let It Be", the group's final released album. The original version featured on two different albums both titled "Rarities": a 1978 British release and a 1980 US release. It was also included on their 1988 album "Past Masters, Volume Two". The song has been covered by many artists, including David Bowie on his 1975 album "Young Americans", which featured contributions from Lennon.
Who is the author of The Universe Around Us? [SEP] Across the Universe (film)  Across the Universe is a 2007 jukebox musical romantic drama film directed by Julie Taymor, centered on songs by the Beatles. The script is based on an original story credited to Taymor, Dick Clement, and Ian La Frenais, and based on the song of the same name by Lennon–McCartney. It incorporates 34 compositions originally written by members of the Beatles. The film stars Evan Rachel Wood, Jim Sturgess, Joe Anderson and T.V. Carpio, and introduces Dana Fuchs and Martin Luther McCoy as actors. Cameo appearances are made by Bono, Eddie Izzard, Joe Cocker, and Salma Hayek, among others.  "Across the Universe" premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival on September 14, 2007, and was theatrically released in the United States on October 12 by Columbia Pictures. The film received mixed reviews from critics, with many praising the visuals, cast and singing performances, though criticized the plot and direction. The film was a major box-office bomb, failing to earn even half of its total production budget at the box office. The film received a Golden Globe nomination for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy and an Oscar nomination for Best Costume Design. Two members of the supporting cast, Carol Woods and Timothy T. Mitchum, performed as part of a special Beatles tribute at the 50th Grammy Awards.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP]  Against All Odds is written by a first-time writer about Zambia's President Edgar Lungu and his path from an unassuming lawyer and minister to the president of one of the world's leading copper-producing countries.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP]  Against the Odds is a science fiction novel by Elizabeth Moon. It is her seventh and last novel set in the Familias Regnant fictional universe. It does not fall in either informal trilogy (the Heris Serrano and the Esmay Suiza trilogies); fittingly it does not focus on any particular character, instead a more general, almost kaleidoscopic perspective of the upheaval in the Familias Regnant, and the rise to power of a new and more capable Speaker. It can be seen as a conclusion to the series, resolving or at least making a good start at resolving many issues and peoples and ending as it does on a memorializing elegiac note.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP]  Against the Odds is an American documentary television series targeted to children and adolescents, that was produced and originally broadcast by Nickelodeon from 1982 through 1984. The series, hosted by Bill Bixby and narrated by Philip Proctor, profiled inspirational stories of people throughout history. Geraldine Laybourne, then-program manager and later president of Nickelodeon, noted that her young son described the show as "a series of little tragedies" that famous people overcame on their journey to what made them so well known. The series is unrelated to the US military battlefield history series of the same name that was originally broadcast on the American Heroes Channel from 2014 through 2016.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP]  Portia Arthur (born 7 January 1990) is a Ghanaian author, writer and reporter. She launched her first book titled "Against The Odds" in July 2018. She also started 'The Book Per Child Initiative', which aims at inspiring young people to read, by supporting them with educational materials and establishing reading clubs in various schools and churches.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP]  "Against the Odds" is the 2011 English language debut single by the Christopher released on EMI Denmark. It is co-written by Kay & Ndustry, Kasper Larsen, Ole Brodersen, Curtis Richa and Johan Wetterberg and produced by Kay & Ndustry and GL Music's Lasse Lindorff.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP] Against All Odds (Take a Look at Me Now)  "Against All Odds (Take a Look at Me Now)" (also titled "Against All Odds") is a song by English drummer, singer and songwriter Phil Collins. It was recorded for the soundtrack to the 1984 film of the same name. It is a power ballad in which its protagonist implores an ex-lover to "take a look at me now," knowing that reconciliation is "against all odds," but worth the gamble. The single reached No. 1 on the "Billboard" Hot 100 in the United States, the first of seven US No. 1's for Collins in his solo career. "Against All Odds (Take a Look At Me Now)" also topped the charts in Canada, Ireland, and Norway, while peaking at No. 2 in the United Kingdom.  The song has been covered by several singers, some versions of which have been successful in both the US and UK markets. The song has twice reached No. 1 in the UK singles chart: the pairing of Mariah Carey and boyband Westlife, in September 2000, and then again by Steve Brookstein, the first winner of "The X Factor", in January 2005.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP] Ace Against Odds  Ace Against Odds is the 2016 biography of the Indian professional tennis player Sania Mirza. The book is her official biography chronicling her journey to becoming one of India and world's top female tennis player. The book also contains some memorable encounters of the player on and off the court and the people and relationships that have contributed to her growth as a person and a sportsperson.  The book was released at the hands of Shah Rukh Khan at a function in Hyderabad in July 2016.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP] Against All Odds (novel)  Against All Odds is a 2017 novel by American writer Danielle Steel. The story follows Kate Madison and her family. The title for the novel comes from the idea that she cannot keep her children from “playing against the odds” in their choice of romantic partners.  The novel peaked at No. 3 on the New York Times Best Sellers List.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP] Elizabeth Moon  Elizabeth Moon (born March 7, 1945) is an American science fiction and fantasy writer. Her other writing includes newspaper columns and opinion pieces. Her novel "The Speed of Dark" won the 2003 Nebula Award. Prior to her writing career, she served in the United States Marine Corps.
Who is the author of Against the Odds? [SEP] Against All Odds (biography)  Against All Odds: Zambia's President Edgar Chagwa Lungu's Rough Journey to State House is a biography of Zambia's President Edgar Lungu by the Zambian journalist and senior diplomat Anthony Mukwita, published by Partridge Africa on 5 January 2017.<ref name=post1/><ref name=post2/><ref name=post11/><ref name=post20/>  The book, written by Zambia's former Deputy Ambassador to Sweden and former Ambassador to Germany, set many records when it became the first Zambian book to go on sale at Barnes & Noble and the first Zambian book on a head of state to be featured in the London Book Fair in Hammersmith.<ref name=post1/><ref name=post2/><ref name=post13/><ref name=post15/><ref name=post17/>  Mukwita previously worked as Editor-in-Chief of the "Daily Mail", Zambia's largest daily circulation newspaper, and was a World Bank winner for Best Investigative Journalism in 2012.<ref name=post20/><ref name=post4/><ref name=post5/><ref name=post6/><ref name=post19/><ref name=post22/>
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]  Michael Branch received a Bachelor of Arts from the College of William & Mary in 1985. He received a Master of Arts and Doctor of Philosophy from the University of Virginia. He currently teaches undergraduate and graduate courses at the University of Nevada, Reno, where he is University Foundation Professor of English. One of the founders of ecocriticism, Branch co-founded the Association for the Study of Literature and Environment (ASLE) and served as the president from 1995-1996. He also worked as book review editor for the journal Interdisciplinary Studies in Literature and Environment and co-edited the series Under the Sign of Nature published by The University of Virginia Press. His professional memberships include the Sierra Club, Wilderness Society, Nature Conservancy, Friends of the Everglades, Sierra Nevada Alliance, League to Save Lake Tahoe, Friends of Nevada Wilderness, Great Basin Mine Watch, Cenozoic Society's Wildlands Project, John Muir Society, Modern Language Association, American Association of University Professors, American Literature Association, American Society for Environmental History.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]  Michael P. Branch (born December 6, 1963) is an ecocritic, writer, and humorist with over three hundred publications, including work in The Best American Essays, The Best American Science and Nature Writing and The Best American Nonrequired Reading. An important member of the environmental and writing community, Western American Literature has described him as part of the "enduring procession of outdoor journalists." His academic work has been called by reviewers as "an excellent entry to the field for the student or general reader who may have read considerably in the area but who is only beginning to make his or her way around the academic study of nature writing". The Best Read Naturalist was called "[a] much needed and thorough collection of Emerson's most significant nature writings." When not writing, Branch enjoys activist and stewardship work, native plant gardening, bucking stovewood, playing blues harmonica, sipping sour mash, cursing at baseball on the radio, and walking at least 1,000 miles each year in the hills and canyons surrounding his high desert home.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]  Branch is a graduate of the Southern Methodist University School of Law (now the Dedman School of Law), at which he was an editor of the law review. He is an alumnus of the Institute on Comparative Political & Economic Systems at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., and he holds Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degrees from Oklahoma Christian University, having graduated summa cum laude in 1980.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]  A self-published author discovers a transdimensional library that collects the lost works of great authors.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]  Wilson is the author of three books:
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP] Taylor Branch  Taylor Branch (born January 14, 1947) is an American author and historian who wrote a Pulitzer Prize winning trilogy chronicling the life of Martin Luther King Jr. and much of the history of the American civil rights movement. The final volume of the 2,912-page trilogy, collectively called "America in the King Years", was released in January 2006, and an abridgment, "The King Years: Historic Moments in the Civil Rights Movement", was published in 2013.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP] James Branch Cabell  James Branch Cabell (; April 14, 1879  – May 5, 1958) was an American author of fantasy fiction and "belles-lettres". Cabell was well-regarded by his contemporaries, including H. L. Mencken, Edmund Wilson, and Sinclair Lewis. His works were considered escapist and fit well in the culture of the 1920s, when they were most popular. For Cabell, veracity was "the one unpardonable sin, not merely against art, but against human welfare."  Although escapist, Cabell's works are ironic and satirical. Mencken disputed Cabell's claim to romanticism and characterized him as "really the most acidulous of all the anti-romantics. His gaudy heroes ... chase dragons precisely as stockbrockers play golf." Cabell saw art as an escape from life, but found that, once the artist creates his ideal world, it is made up of the same elements that make the real one.<ref name="curious"/>  Interest in Cabell declined in the 1930s, a decline that has been attributed in part to his failure to move out of his fantasy niche despite the onset of World War II. Alfred Kazin said that "Cabell and Hitler did not inhabit the same universe".   The library at Virginia Commonwealth University is named after Cabell.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP] Susan Branch  Susan Branch is an American author, watercolorist, and designer. Her works include the "Heart of the Home" series of cookbooks in which she was also the illustrator.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP] John Branch (journalist)  John Branch is an American journalist and writer who currently works at the "New York Times," covering topics related to sports and California.
Who is the author of Branches? [SEP]
Who is the author of New York? [SEP]  New York: a Novel (2009) is an historical novel by British novelist Edward Rutherfurd. The United States edition is published by Doubleday under the title New York: The Novel.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP]  New York is a 1976 work of travel and observation by Anthony Burgess. It was written for Time–Life's The Great Cities series of books. Burgess lived in the city for two years in the early 1970s, teaching literature and creative writing at City College and Columbia University.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP]  New York is a 1930 travel book by the French writer Paul Morand. Morand visited New York four times between 1925 and 1929 and shares his experiences from those trips, with a non-native reader in mind. An English translation by Hamish Miles was published in 1930.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP]  Brigitte Weeks of The Washington Post praised the novel and advised readers against trying to determine the accuracy of every name or event: "But analyzing the veracity of every incident will spoil the fun, and what makes this novel so entertaining is the riotous, multilayered portrait of a whole metropolis. Rutherfurd offers the reader a chance to watch a rural outcrop grow into one of the world's greatest cities in a mere 350 years. He delivers magnificently on the challenge; it is hard to imagine any other writer combining such astonishing depth of research with the imagination and ingenuity to hold it all together." New York won the Langum Prize for American Historical Fiction in 2010.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP]  Moss has co-edited five books while at New York: New York Look Book: A Gallery of Street Fashion (New York: Melcher Media, 2007), New York Stories: Landmark Writing From Four Decades of New York Magazine (New York: Random House, 2008), My First New York: Early Adventures in the Big City (As Remembered by Actors, Artists, Athletes, Chefs, Comedians, Filmmakers, Mayors, Models, Moguls, Porn Stars, Rockers, Writers, and Others) (New York: Ecco/HarperCollins, 2010)., In Season: More Than 150 Fresh and Simple Recipes from New York Magazine Inspired by Farmers’ Market Ingredients (New York: Blue Rider Press, 2012), and Highbrow, Lowbrow, Brilliant, Despicable: 50 Years of New York (New York: Simon & Schuster, 2017).
Who is the author of New York? [SEP] Theme from New York, New York  "Theme from "New York, New York"", often abbreviated to just "New York, New York", is the theme song from the Martin Scorsese film "New York, New York" (1977), composed by John Kander, with lyrics by Fred Ebb. It was written for and performed in the film by Liza Minnelli. It remains one of the best-known songs about New York City. In 2004 it ranked #31 on AFI's 100 Years...100 Songs survey of top tunes in American cinema.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP] The New York Times  The New York Times (the Times, NYT, or the Gray Lady) is a daily newspaper based in New York City with a worldwide readership reported in 2020 to comprise a declining 840,000 paid print subscribers, and a growing 6 million paid digital subscribers. It also is a producer of popular podcasts such as "The Daily". Founded in 1851 by Henry Jarvis Raymond and George Jones, it was initially published by Raymond, Jones & Company. The "Times" has won 132 Pulitzer Prizes, the most of any newspaper, and has long been regarded as a national "newspaper of record". For print, it is ranked 18th in the world by circulation and 3rd in the U.S.  The paper is owned by the New York Times Company, which is publicly traded. It has been governed by the Sulzberger family since 1896, through a dual-class share structure after its shares became publicly traded. A. G. Sulzberger, the paper's publisher and the company's chairman, is the fifth generation of the family to head the paper.  Since the mid-1970s, "The New York Times" has expanded its layout and organization, adding special weekly sections on various topics supplementing the regular news, editorials, sports, and features. Since 2008, the "Times" has been organized into the following sections: News, Editorials/Opinions-Columns/Op-Ed, New York (metropolitan), Business, Sports, Arts, Science, Styles, Home, Travel, and other features. On Sundays, the "Times" is supplemented by the "Sunday Review" (formerly the "Week in Review"), "The New York Times Book Review", "The New York Times Magazine", and "". The editorial pages of "The New York Times" are typically liberal in their positions.<ref name=":2" /><ref name="The New York Times 2016" />
Who is the author of New York? [SEP] The New York Trilogy  The New York Trilogy is a series of novels by American writer Paul Auster. Originally published sequentially as "City of Glass" (1985), "Ghosts" (1986) and "The Locked Room" (1986), it has since been collected into a single volume. The Trilogy is a postmodern interpretation of detective and mystery fiction, exploring various philosophical themes.
Who is the author of New York? [SEP] Pete Hamill  Pete Hamill (born William Peter Hamill; June 24, 1935August 5, 2020) was an American journalist, novelist, essayist and editor. During his career as a New York City journalist, he was described as "the author of columns that sought to capture the particular flavors of New York City's politics and sports and the particular pathos of its crime." Hamill was a columnist and editor for the "New York Post" and the "New York Daily News".
Who is the author of New York? [SEP] The New York Times Best Seller list  "The New York Times" Best Seller list is widely considered the preeminent list of best-selling books in the United States. Since October 12, 1931, "The New York Times Book Review" has published the list weekly.<ref name="bear" /> In the 21st century, it has evolved into multiple lists, grouped by genre and format, including fiction and nonfiction, hardcover, paperback and electronic.  The list is based on a proprietary method that uses sales figures, other data and internal guidelines that are unpublished—how the "Times" compiles the list is a trade secret. The list has been a source of controversy. When the "Times" believes a book has reached the list in a suspicious way—such as through bulk purchases—the book's entry on the list is marked with a dagger symbol (†).
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP]  The book was published as a paperback edition by Wizards of the Coast in June 2002. It was authored by Daniel Kaufman, Gwendolyn F.M. Kestrel, Mike Selinker, and Skip Williams. Cover art was by Todd Lockwood, with interior art by David Day and Wayne Reynolds. Mike Selinker was the lead designer.
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP]  SOURCE
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP]  The Challenge is an Australian novel by E. V. Timms. It was the fifth in his Great South Land Saga of novels. It is set in Australia during the 1850s.
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP]  Challenge was the tenth and final Bulldog Drummond novel written by H. C. McNeile. It was published in 1935 under McNeile's pen name Sapper.
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP]  The Boozer Challenge is a fiction book by author Charles Gill, son of famed New Yorker writer Brendan Gill, and brother of Michael Gates Gill, who wrote How Starbucks Saved My Life. The Boozer Challenge was published in 1987, by Dutton. The story is about four spoiled twenty-something children who are challenged by their billionaire father to earn $100,000 in one year in order to inherit his beautiful Hudson River estate.
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP] The Leadership Challenge  The Leadership Challenge is a suite of books, training products and assessments based on the book written by James Kouzes and Barry Z. Posner, published by Wiley. First published in 1987, the book's sixth edition was released in 2017.
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP] ImageNet  The ImageNet project is a large visual database designed for use in visual object recognition software research. More than 14 million images have been hand-annotated by the project to indicate what objects are pictured and in at least one million of the images, bounding boxes are also provided. ImageNet contains more than 20,000 categories, The database of annotations of third-party image URLs is freely available directly from ImageNet, though the actual images are not owned by ImageNet. Since 2010, the ImageNet project runs an annual software contest, the ImageNet Large Scale Visual Recognition Challenge (ILSVRC), where software programs compete to correctly classify and detect objects and scenes. The challenge uses a "trimmed" list of one thousand non-overlapping classes.<ref name=ILJVRC-2015/>
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP] DC Challenge  DC Challenge was a 12-issue comic book limited series produced by DC Comics from November 1985 to October 1986, as a round robin experiment in narrative. The series' tagline was "Can You Solve It Before We Do?"
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of Challenge? [SEP] Dark Challenge  Dark Challenge is the fifth book in the paranormal romance series Dark Series by American author Christine Feehan. It is the first book in a trilogy written within the Dark Series, and it starts several months after the events in "Dark Magic".
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP]  City of Dreams is a historical novel by Beverly Swerling, published in 2001. It is the multi-generational history of a family of immigrants set in Nieuw Amsterdam and early Manhattan.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP]  Book of Dreams is an experimental novel published by Jack Kerouac in 1960, culled from the dream journal he kept from 1952 to 1960. In it Kerouac tries to continue plot-lines with characters from his books as he sees them in his dreams. This book is stylistically wild, spontaneous, and flowing, like much of Kerouac's writing, and helps to give insight into the Beat Generation author's mind.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP]  The Law of Dreams is a historical fiction novel about the Great Famine of Ireland by Canadian author Peter Behrens. Published in 2006 by House of Anansi Press, it was the recipient of that year's Governor General's Award for English language fiction.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP]  Sittenfeld's second novel, called The Man of My Dreams, was published in May 2006 by Random House. It follows a girl named Hannah from the end of her 8th grade year through her college years at Tufts and into her late twenties.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP]  The first edition of the book was published in 1986 by W. W. Norton. A second edition of the book was published in 2001 by Springer with some corrections from von Foerster.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP] The Interpretation of Dreams  The Interpretation of Dreams () is an 1899 book by Sigmund Freud, the founder of psychoanalysis, in which the author introduces his theory of the unconscious with respect to dream interpretation, and discusses what would later become the theory of the Oedipus complex. Freud revised the book at least eight times and, in the third edition, added an extensive section which treated dream symbolism very literally, following the influence of Wilhelm Stekel. Freud said of this work, "Insight such as this falls to one's lot but once in a lifetime."  Dated 1900, the book was first published in an edition of 600 copies, which did not sell out for eight years. "The Interpretation of Dreams" later gained in popularity, and seven more editions were published in Freud's lifetime.  Because of the book's length and complexity, Freud also wrote an abridged version called "On Dreams". The original text is widely regarded as one of Freud's most significant works.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP] Dreams from My Father  Dreams from My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance (1995) is a memoir by Barack Obama that explores the events of his early years in Honolulu and Chicago until his entry into Harvard Law School in 1988. Obama originally published his memoir in 1995, when he was starting his political campaign for the Illinois Senate.<ref name="July 1995"/>  After Obama won the U.S. Senate Democratic primary victory in Illinois in 2004, the book was re-published that year. He gave the keynote address at the 2004 Democratic National Convention (DNC) and won the US Senate seat in the fall. Obama launched his presidential campaign three years later.<ref name="March 2004"/> The 2004 edition includes a new preface by Obama and his DNC keynote address.<ref name="March 2004"/>  According to "The New York Times", Obama modeled "Dreams from My Father" on Ralph Ellison's novel "Invisible Man". The book, frequently praised for its literary qualities, has also been criticized for inaccuracies and over-use of artistic license.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP] Dream of the Red Chamber  Dream of the Red Chamber ("Honglou Meng") or The Story of the Stone ("Shitou Ji") is a novel composed by Cao Xueqin in the middle of the 18th century. One of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature, it is known for its psychological scope, and its observation of the worldview, aesthetics, life-styles, and social relations of 18th-century China.  The intricate strands of its plot depict the rise and decline of a family much like Cao’s own and, by extension, of the dynasty itself. Cao depicts the power of the father over the family, but the novel is intended to be a memorial to the women he knew in his youth: friends, relatives and servants. At a more profound level, the author explores religious and philosophical questions, and the writing style includes echoes of the plays and novels of the late Ming, as well as poetry from earlier periods.  Cao apparently began composing it in the 1740s and worked on it until his death in 1763 or 1764. Copies of his uncompleted manuscript circulated in Cao's social circle, under the title "Story of a Stone" in slightly varying versions of eighty chapters. It was not published until nearly three decades after Cao's death, when Gao E and Cheng Weiyuan (), edited the first and second printed editions under the title "Dream of the Red Chamber" in 1791–92, adding 40 chapters. It is still debated whether Gao and Cheng composed these chapters themselves and the extent to which they did or did not represent Cao's intentions. Their 120 chapter edition became the most widely circulated version. The title has also been translated as "Red Chamber Dream" and "A Dream of Red Mansions". "Redology" is the field of study devoted to the novel.
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP] Field of Dreams  Field of Dreams is a 1989 American sports fantasy drama film written and directed by Phil Alden Robinson, based on Canadian novelist W. P. Kinsella's 1982 novel "Shoeless Joe". The film stars Kevin Costner as a farmer who builds a baseball field in his cornfield that attracts the ghosts of baseball legends, including Shoeless Joe Jackson (Ray Liotta) and the Chicago Black Sox. Amy Madigan, James Earl Jones, and Burt Lancaster (in his final film role) also star. It was theatrically released on May 5, 1989.  The film received generally positive reviews from critics, and was nominated for three Academy Awards: Best Picture, Best Original Score and Best Adapted Screenplay. In 2017, it was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant".
Who is the author of Dreams? [SEP] The Dream (novel)  The Dream is a 1924 novel by H. G. Wells about a man from a Utopian future who dreams the entire life of an Englishman from the Victorian and Edwardian eras, Harry Mortimer Smith. As in other novels of this period, in "The Dream" Wells represents the present as an "Age of Confusion" from which humanity will be able to emerge with the help of science and common sense.
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]  Bonaparte à Malte is a 2008 book by Maltese writer Frans Sammut, with an introduction by Dr Paul Borg Olivier. The Maltese original, Bonaparti f'Malta, was published in 1997. Citing contemporary documents from Malta's archives, it provides a detailed account of the six days Napoleon Bonaparte spent in Malta in 1798, as well as an analysis of the political situation under the Order of St John of Jerusalem and the political and cultural consequences of Bonaparte's conquest of Malta. In the words of fellow writer and former Prime Minister of Malta, Alfred Sant, Napoleon and his impact on Malta were "enduring subjects of [Sammut's] interests and
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]  Caesar and Alexander the Great. Some of Sammut's research for Bonaparte à Malte also went into his 1994 historical novel about Vassalli, Il-Ħolma Maltija (The Maltese Dream), described by Alfred Sant as "his masterpiece" and by British author and poet Marjorie Boulton as "a colossal work". According to Prof. Anne-Marie Mésa of the University of Reims Champagne-Ardenne, Frans Sammut's "point of view is actually original, well reasoned out, nuanced and subtle – as one would expect from all works on history. A true pleasure to read!”; Frans Sammut was “self-evidently an excellent historian, as well as a rich personality and endowed with a vast culture”.
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]  he did not hold back any punches if he felt that he or someone else was being wronged. White-haired, with big eyes and white, thick mustaches, quite dark, a strong handshake, the author of Bonaparte à Malte. Sammut first gained recognition in the early 60s when he was still in his mid-teens through his short story "L-Istqarrija," which won first place in a contest by Għaqda Kittieba Zgħazagħ, and through two other short stories which won second and fourth places in the same contest; then in the late 1960s, he co-founded the Moviment Qawmien Letterarju (Literary Revival Movement). Later he served as Secretary of the Akkademja tal-Malti (Maltese Language Academy). In 2010, he was elected
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]  It is the first account in the French language of those six days. At the Eighth Congress of the International Napoleonic Society, Sammut gave a presentation, "The Enlightenment in Malta and the Coming of Bonaparte", based on his research for Bonaparte à Malte. Sammut maintained that Napoleon, despite spending such a short time in Malta, sought singlehandedly to draw the country into the modern world. He issued a series of decrees aimed at bringing about a thorough reorganization of government and society in Malta, and tirelessly sought to review the country's laws and regulations. The abolition of noble titles and privileges and the ending of
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]  Marcus Malte (born 1967) is a French author. He received the Prix Femina for Le Garçon in 2016. This book was later translated to English by Emma Ramadan and Tom Roberge, then published as The Boy.
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP] Frans Sammut  Frans Sammut (19 November 1945 – 4 May 2011) was a Maltese novelist and non-fiction writer.
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP]
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP] Paul Borg Olivier  Paul Borg Olivier (born 1 September 1969) is a Maltese politician, former mayor of the Maltese capital city Valletta and Secretary-General of the Nationalist Party.  Borg Olivier read law at the University of Malta and was admitted to the Bar of Advocates in 1996. He was first a Senior Associate with Fenech and Fenech Advocates (1996–2000) before setting up his private practice.  Borg Olivier stood as a Nationalist Party candidate (a party founded on Christian Democratic principles and member of the European Peoples Party) for National and Local Elections in the First Electoral District including Valletta in 1996, 1998, 2003 and 2008. He was elected Valletta Deputy Mayor (1996–99) and Mayor for three consecutive terms (1999–2008).  He was elected Secretary-General of the Nationalist Party on June 27, 2008 under the party leadership of Lawrence Gonzi, succeeding Joe Saliba shortly after the Nationalist Party was returned to government in 2008 for a third consecutive term.  Paul Borg Olivier decided not to contest again the post of Secretary General after the Nationalist Party lost the General Elections on 9 March 2013. His term as Secretary General ended on 5 June 2013 and was succeeded by Chris Said, former Minister of Justice in the Lawrence Gonzi Government (2008–2013).  Paul Borg Olivier is the nephew of former Maltese Prime Minister Giorgio Borg Olivier and grandson of Paolo Borg Olivier, a former Nationalist Party Minister.  Following the return to his legal profession, Paul Borg Olivier piloted and headed the legal team winning one of Malta's leading recent cases before the Constitutional Court. The case related to the fundamental human rights and freedoms in electoral processes based on free and fair elections as listed in the European Convention on Human Rights. As a result of this case National Parliament was recomposed in the number of Members of parliament to better reflect the vote of the electors in the 2013 General Elections.  Dr Borg Olivier wrote the introduction to Frans Sammut's "Bonaparte à Malte".  Paul Borg Olivier took up photography in 2013. In 2015 he was awarded, from amongst 900 world entries, First Prize in the I Shot it Competition, partnered with Leica. He shoots with Leica M cameras and lenses and his main subjects are Valletta, Street Photography and Documentary Photography. In 2014, Paul Borg Olivier was interviewed on the Leica Camera Blog.  Paul Borg Olivier is President of the Società Dante Alighieri, Comitato di Malta.   He is married to Gloria and they have one daughter, Maria Pia, born in 2005.  Paul Borg Olivier is currently a practicing lawyer.
Who is the author of Bonaparte à Malte? [SEP] French occupation of Malta  The French occupation of Malta lasted from 1798 to 1800. It was established when the Order of Saint John surrendered to Napoleon Bonaparte following the French landing in June 1798. In Malta, the French established a constitutional tradition in Maltese history (as part of the French Republic), granted free education for all,  The French abolished nobility, slavery, the feudal system, and the inquisition. The only remaining architectural reminder of the French occupation is probably the defacement of most coats of arms on the façades of buildings of the knights. The Maltese soon rebelled against the French and drove the French garrison into Valletta and the Grand Harbour fortifications where they were besieged for more than two years. The French surrendered Malta when their food supplies were about to run out.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]  Mr. Nice is the autobiography of former drug dealer Howard Marks. Published in 1996 it became an international bestseller due in large part to the humour and unabashed bravado the author uses to describe his life and the sheer scale of his drug deals involving, amongst others, the CIA, MI6, the IRA and the Mafia. The book received mostly positive reviews, though some critics were initially sceptical of some of the more outlandish details portrayed. It was adapted for film in 2010 as Mr. Nice.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]  Nice People was a 1921 Broadway four-act comedy written and staged by Rachel Crothers, produced by Samuel H. Harris and starring Tallulah Bankhead and Francine Larrimore. After working with Bankhead in 39 East, Crothers wrote Nice People expressly for her. The general manager was William G. Norton, the scenic was designed by Navon Bergman, and John Kirkpatrick was the stage manager. It ran for 120 performances from March 2, 1921 to June, 1921, at the Klaw Theatre. It was included in Burns Mantle's The Best Plays of 1920-1921. It was also Katharine Cornell's Broadway debut. It was adapted into the 1922 silent film Nice People, now believed to be lost.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]  Nice Racism: How Progressive White People Perpetuate Racial Harm is a 2021 book by Robin DiAngelo on the subject of race relations in the United States. Following on from White Fragility (2018), DiAngelo criticizes behavior by white progressives as racist and discusses situations from her diversity training workshops and personal life. The book became a The New York Times Best Seller, and received mixed critical reception.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]  James Hayward is the pen name of James Nice (born 6 January 1966 in Essex), an English writer on military, modern art and post-punk musical history.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]  his views on the drugs trade being one of the world's biggest drugs barons during the 1970s and for his DVD  Mr Nice, his books, Mr. Nice, Howard Marks' Book of Dope Stories, and Señor Nice: Straight Life from Wales to South America and for his media appearances. He died in 2016. ; Eric Mason known for being a member of the infamous Krays firm and for being the last person in Britain to be birched. he also wrote a book called the brutal truth. He died in 2012. ; Dave Courtney known for being a gangster in his previous life but now an advocate of straight living and a successful author, with his books stop the ride I
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP] The Nice Guys  The Nice Guys is a 2016 American action comedy film directed and co-written (alongside Anthony Bagarozzi) by Shane Black, produced by Joel Silver, and starring Russell Crowe and Ryan Gosling in the title roles with Angourie Rice, Matt Bomer, Margaret Qualley, Keith David and Kim Basinger in supporting roles. Set in 1977 Los Angeles, the film focuses on a private eye (Gosling) and a tough enforcer (Crowe) who team up to investigate the disappearance of a teenage girl (Qualley).  "The Nice Guys" premiered on May 11, 2016, in Hollywood, screened on May 15 at the 2016 Cannes Film Festival, and was released by Warner Bros. Pictures in the United States on May 20, 2016. It received positive reviews from critics for its humor, mystery, and the performances of Crowe and Gosling. It grossed $62 million on a $50 million budget.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP]
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP] Have a nice day  Have a nice day is a commonly spoken expression used to conclude a conversation (whether brief or extensive), or end a message by hoping the person to whom it is addressed experiences a pleasant day. Since it is often uttered by service employees to customers at the end of a transaction, particularly in Israel and the United States, its repetitious and dutiful usage has resulted in the phrase developing, according to some journalists and scholars, especially outside of these two countries, a cultural connotation of impersonality, lack of interest, passive–aggressive behavior, or sarcasm.  The phrase is generally not used in Europe, as some find it artificial or even offensive. Critics of the phrase characterize it as an imperative, obliging the person to have a nice day. Other critics argue that it is a parting platitude that comes across as pretended. While defenders of the phrase agree that "Have a nice day" can be used insincerely, they consider the phrase to be comforting, in that it improves interactions among people. Others favor the phrase because it does not require a response.  A variant of the phrase—"have a good day"—is first recorded in "Layamon's Brut" (c. 1205) and "King Horn". "Have a nice day" itself first appeared in the 1948 film "A Letter to Three Wives". In the United States, the phrase was first used on a regular basis in the early to mid 1960s by FAA air traffic controllers and pilots. It was subsequently popularized by truck drivers talking on CB radios. Variations on the phrase include "have a good one" and "have a nice one". In conjunction with the smiley face, the phrase became a defining cultural emblem of the 1970s and was a key theme in the 1991 film "My Own Private Idaho". By 2000, "have a nice day" and "have a good day" were taken metaphorically, synonymous with the parting phrase "goodbye".
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP] Nice guy  "Nice guy" is an informal term, commonly used with either a literal or a sarcastic meaning, for a man.  In the literal sense, the term describes a man who is agreeable, gentle, compassionate, sensitive and vulnerable. The term is used both positively and negatively. When used positively, and particularly when used as a preference or description by someone else, it is intended to imply a man who puts the needs of others before his own, avoids confrontations, does favors, provides emotional support, tries to stay out of trouble, and generally acts nicely towards others. In the context of a relationship, it may also refer to traits of honesty, loyalty, romanticism, courtesy, and respect.  When used negatively, a nice guy implies a man who is unassertive or otherwise "non-masculine". The opposite of a genuine "nice guy" is commonly described as a "jerk", a term for a mean, selfish and uncaring person. A man is labeled a “jerk” on how he treats his partner, seen as the extreme case where he would not have a sensitive or kind side and is seen as a “macho man” and insensitive type.  However, the term is also often used sarcastically, particularly in the context of dating,<ref name="McDaniel" /> to describe someone who believes himself to possess genuine "nice guy" characteristics, even though he actually does not, and who uses acts of friendship and basic social etiquette with the ulterior aim of progressing to a romantic or sexual relationship.<ref> </ref> This is sometimes referred to as "Nice Guy Syndrome", which is used to describe a sense of entitlement to sexual or romantic attention from women simply for being "nice", and irrational anger when that attention is not forthcoming.
Who is the author of Nice People? [SEP] Nice Racism  Nice Racism: How Progressive White People Perpetuate Racial Harm is a 2021 book by Robin DiAngelo on the subject of race relations in the United States. Following on from "White Fragility" (2018), DiAngelo criticizes behavior by white progressives as racist and discusses situations from her diversity training workshops and personal life. The book became a "The New York Times" Best Seller, and received mixed critical reception.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP]  Falling (1994) (orig. Dutch Vallen) is a novel by the Flemish author Anne Provoost.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] Nominated for the Prix du Lecteur from Mans and Sarthe in France
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP]  Falling (ISBN: 0-330-36889-3) is a 1999 novel by British writer Elizabeth Jane Howard. It was later filmed as a drama for ITV.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] 1994, Belgium, Houtekiet (ISBN: 978-9052402789), pub date 1994, paperback (Vallen first edition in Dutch)) ; 1997, UK, Allen & Unwin (ISBN: 978-1864484441), pub date 1 September 1997, paperback (first edition in English)
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] The Woutertje Pieterse Prijs ; The Boekenleeuw ; The Gouden Uil ; The Zilveren Griffel ; Listed on White Ravens (a premium label for books of international interest which deserve a wider reception)
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] Things Fall Apart  Things Fall Apart is the debut novel by Nigerian author Chinua Achebe, first published in 1958. It depicts pre-colonial life in the southeastern part of Nigeria and the invasion by Europeans during the late 19th century. It is seen as the archetypal modern African novel in English, and one of the first to receive global critical acclaim. It is a staple book in schools throughout Africa and is widely read and studied in English-speaking countries around the world. The novel was first published in the UK in 1962 by William Heinemann Ltd, and became the first work published in Heinemann's African Writers Series.  The novel follows the life of Okonkwo, an Igbo ("Ibo" in the novel) man and local wrestling champion in the fictional Nigerian clan of Umuofia. The work is split into three parts, with the first describing his family, personal history, and the customs and society of the Igbo, and the second and third sections introducing the influence of European colonialism and Christian missionaries on Okonkwo, his family, and the wider Igbo community.  "Things Fall Apart" was followed by a sequel, "No Longer at Ease" (1960), originally written as the second part of a larger work along with "Arrow of God" (1964). Achebe states that his two later novels "A Man of the People" (1966) and "Anthills of the Savannah" (1987), while not featuring Okonkwo's descendants, are spiritual successors to the previous novels in chronicling African history.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] The Fall (Camus novel)  The Fall () is a philosophical novel by Albert Camus. First published in 1956, it is his last complete work of fiction. Set in Amsterdam, "The Fall" consists of a series of dramatic monologues by the self-proclaimed "judge-penitent" Jean-Baptiste Clamence, as he reflects upon his life to a stranger. In what amounts to a confession, Clamence tells of his success as a wealthy Parisian defense lawyer who was highly respected by his colleagues. His crisis, and his ultimate "fall" from grace, was meant to invoke, in secular terms, the fall of man from the Garden of Eden. "The Fall" explores themes of innocence, imprisonment, non-existence, and truth. In a eulogy to Albert Camus, existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre described the novel as "perhaps the most beautiful and the least understood" of Camus' books.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] Can't Help Falling in Love  "Can't Help Falling in Love" is a song recorded by American singer Elvis Presley for the album "Blue Hawaii" (1961). It was written by Hugo Peretti, Luigi Creatore, and George David Weiss and published by Gladys Music, Inc. a popular French love song composed in 1784 by Jean-Paul-Égide Martini. The song was initially written from the perspective of a woman as "Can't Help Falling in Love with Him", which explains the first and third line ending on "in" and "sin" rather than words rhyming with "you".  "Can't Help Falling in Love" was featured in Presley's 1961 film "Blue Hawaii". It has also been recorded by many other artists, including Swedish pop group A-Teens, and the British reggae group UB40, whose 1993 version topped the US and UK charts. It was listed as one of the greatest songs by "Rolling Stone", ranking #403 in the list's 2012 edition.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] Snow Falling on Cedars  Snow Falling on Cedars is a 1994 novel by David Guterson. Guterson, a teacher, wrote the book in the early morning hours over ten years then quit his job to write full-time.
Who is the author of Falling? [SEP] London Bridge Is Falling Down  "London Bridge Is Falling Down" (also known as "My Fair Lady" or "London Bridge") is a traditional English nursery rhyme and singing game, which is found in different versions all over the world. It deals with the dilapidation of London Bridge and attempts, realistic or fanciful, to repair it. It may date back to bridge-related rhymes and games of the Late Middle Ages, but the earliest records of the rhyme in English are from the 17th century. The lyrics were first printed in close to their modern form in the mid-18th century and became popular, particularly in Britain and the United States, during the 19th century.  The modern melody was first recorded in the late 19th century. It has Roud Folk Song Index number 502. Several explanations have been advanced to explain the meaning of the rhyme and the identity of the "fair lady" of the refrain. The rhyme is well known and has been referenced in a variety of works of literature and popular culture.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP]  Love All is the first novel by the journalist, writer and artist Molly Parkin.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] Editor Author Co-author
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP]  The book was originally submitted as a 750-word outline to publishers Blond & Briggs. Although editorial staff disliked it, a secretary commented that she liked it, and it was picked up for publication. It was published in the UK in 1974 by Blond & Briggs, with reprints in 1997, 1979 (twice) and 1980 by Star.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP]  Love All was reviewed by the Daily Telegraph which said that it was "written with the lightest of touches and a mirthful exhilarated sense of its own libidousness...quite the funniest novel I have read in a long while". Another review, in the Irish Times, in a reference to the sexual content of the book, called it "disgusting".
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] 2010 - All is Love
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] The Greatest Love of All  "The Greatest Love of All" is a song written by Michael Masser, who composed the music, and Linda Creed, who wrote the lyrics. It was originally recorded in 1977 by George Benson, who made the song a substantial hit, peaking at number two on the US Hot Soul Singles chart that year, the first R&B chart top-ten hit for Arista Records. The song was written and recorded to be the main theme of the 1977 film "The Greatest," a biopic of the boxer Muhammad Ali, and is performed during the opening credits.  Benson's original recording was released in 1977 in the United States, Japan, France, Germany, New Zealand, Australia, Italy, Brazil, Netherlands, the United Kingdom and Thailand, on an extended play (EP). He officially recorded the song four times; in addition to the studio single, Benson also recorded three live versions, the last time in a duet with Luciano Pavarotti in 2001. Since 1977, a great number of artists have recorded this song, including Shirley Bassey, Oleta Adams, Alexandra Burke, Deborah Cox, Ferrante & Teicher and Kevin Rowland.  Eight years after Benson's original recording, the song became even more well known for a version by Whitney Houston, whose 1985 cover (with the slightly amended title "Greatest Love of All") eventually topped the charts, peaking at number one in the United States, Australia, Canada and on the US R&B chart in early 1986.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] All You Need Is Love  "All You Need Is Love" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles that was released as a non-album single in July 1967. It was written by John Lennon and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership. The song was Britain's contribution to "Our World", the first live global television link, for which the band were filmed performing it at EMI Studios in London on 25 June. The programme was broadcast via satellite and seen by an audience of over 400 million in 25 countries. Lennon's lyrics were deliberately simplistic, to allow for the show's international audience, and captured the utopian ideals associated with the Summer of Love. The single topped sales charts in Britain, the United States and many other countries, and became an anthem for the counterculture's embrace of flower power philosophy.  "Our World" coincided with the height of the Beatles' popularity and influence, following the release of their album "Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band". Rather than perform the song entirely live, the group played to a pre-recorded backing track. With an orchestral arrangement by George Martin, the song begins with a portion of the French national anthem and ends with musical quotations from works such as Glenn Miller's "In the Mood", "Greensleeves", Bach's Invention No. 8 in F major, and the Beatles' 1963 hit "She Loves You". Adding to the broadcast's festive atmosphere, the studio was adorned with signs and streamers and filled with guests dressed in psychedelic attire, including members of the Rolling Stones, the Who and the Small Faces. Brian Epstein, the Beatles' manager, described the performance as the band's "finest" moment.<ref name="Badman/MojoSpecial" />  "All You Need Is Love" was later included on the US "Magical Mystery Tour" album and served as the moral for the Beatles' 1968 animated film "Yellow Submarine". Originally broadcast in black-and-white, the "Our World" performance was colourised for inclusion in the Beatles' 1995 "Anthology" documentary series. While the song remains synonymous with the 1967 Summer of Love ethos and provided the foundation for Lennon's legacy as a humanitarian, numerous critics found the message naive in retrospect, particularly during the 1980s. Since 2009, Global Beatles Day, an international celebration of the Beatles' music and social message, takes place on 25 June each year in tribute to their "Our World" performance.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] Love Is All Around  "Love Is All Around" is a song recorded by English rock band the Troggs, featuring a string quartet and a 'tick tock' sound on percussion, in D-major. Released as a single in October 1967, it was a top-ten hit in both the UK and US.<ref name="ukrr" /><ref name=":0" />   "Love Is All Around" has been covered by numerous artists, including R.E.M., with whom the Troggs subsequently recorded their 1992 comeback album "Athens Andover". R.E.M.'s cover was a B-side on their 1991 "Radio Song" single, and they also played it during their first appearance at MTV's "Unplugged" series that same year. Wet Wet Wet's cover, for the soundtrack to the 1994 film "Four Weddings and a Funeral", was an international hit and spent 15 consecutive weeks at number one on the UK Singles Chart.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] All Is Full of Love  "All Is Full of Love" is a song by Icelandic musician Björk from her third studio album, "Homogenic" (1997). The lyrics were inspired by love in spring and Ragnarök of Norse mythology. Björk's original version is a trip hop ballad with soul influences, harp, strings, and electronic beats; the version on "Homogenic" is a minimalist remix by Howie B, emphasising Björk's vocals. A remix by the German IDM duo Funkstörung was released as a single in 1998.  In 1999, "All Is Full of Love" was released as a single with a music video directed by Chris Cunningham. The video uses Björk's original mix, and depicts Björk as a robot being assembled in a factory, who passionately kisses another robot. The video is often cited as one of the best of all time and a milestone in computer animation; it has been displayed in art exhibitions and was on display at the Museum of Modern Art in New York City. The single reached number 24 on the UK Singles Chart and became a dance hit in the United States. The original version of "All Is Full of Love" is the opening track on "Greatest Hits" (2002), whose tracks were voted for by fans. It has been covered by various artists.
Who is the author of Love All? [SEP] Love Divine, All Loves Excelling  "Love Divine, All Loves Excelling" is a Christian hymn by Charles Wesley on Christian perfection. Judging by general repute, it is among Wesley's finest: "justly famous and beloved, better known than almost any other hymn of Charles Wesley." Judging by its distribution, it is also among his most successful:  by the end of the 19th century, it is found in 15 of the 17 hymn books consulted  by the authors of "Lyric Studies." On a larger scale, it is found almost universally in general collections of the past century, including not only Methodist and Anglican hymn books and commercial and ecumenical collections, but also hymnals published by Reformed, Presbyterian, Baptist, Brethren, Seventh-day Adventist, Lutheran, Congregationalist, Pentecostal, and Roman Catholic traditions, among others including the Churches of Christ. Specifically, it appears in 1,328 of the North American hymnals indexed by the online "Dictionary of North American Hymnology", comparable to Newton's "Amazing Grace" (1,036), Wesley's "O for a Thousand Tongues" (1,249), and Watts' "When I Survey the Wondrous Cross" (1,483), though still well short of Toplady's "Rock of Ages" (2,139) or Wesley's own "Jesu, Lover of my Soul" (2,164).  Notable renditions include the singing of the hymn at the funeral of Queen Elizabeth II on September 19th 2022.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP]  A Hero of Our Time is a novel by Mikhail Lermontov, written in 1839, published in 1840, and revised in 1841. It is an example of the superfluous man novel, noted for its compelling Byronic hero (or antihero) Pechorin and for the beautiful descriptions of the Caucasus. There are several English translations, including one by Vladimir Nabokov and Dmitri Nabokov in 1958.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP]  Hero is a 2007 Lambda-winning novel, and the only novel by openly gay film producer and novelist Perry Moore. The fantasy novel is about a teenage superhero, Thom Creed, who must deal with his ex-superhero father's disgrace, his own sexuality, and a murderer stalking the world's heroes.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP] These Are My Heroes: A Study of the Saints ; Warfare: A Study of War ; A Soldier-Priest Talks to Youth
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP]  The project published a book, My Hero: Extraordinary People on the Heroes Who Inspire Them in 2005 that includes essays by well-known figures like John McCain, Dana Reeve, Rudy Giuliani, Michael J. Fox, Yogi Berra, and John Glenn about who inspired them. An audio book was released in 2006, which is narrated by Ellen Archer and Alan Sklar.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP]  an outcast. The review also pointed to wittily-written descriptions of Thom masturbating to Internet porn, coming out to his father, and his first kiss. "But otherwise his play-by-play writing style can seem a bit choppy, especially in the story's more poignant moments," the review noted. Nevertheless, "Hero is a quick, at times shallow, but satisfying novel, the kind we all wanted while growing up and hopefully the first in a new genre of young adult literature." In a very brief review, Entertainment Weekly called the book "pulpy" but with good punch, and rated it an A-minus. Publishers Weekly applauded the book for
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP] The Hero with a Thousand Faces  The Hero with a Thousand Faces (first published in 1949) is a work of comparative mythology by Joseph Campbell, in which the author discusses his theory of the mythological structure of the journey of the archetypal hero found in world myths.   Since the publication of "The Hero with a Thousand Faces", Campbell's theory has been consciously applied by a wide variety of modern writers and artists. Filmmaker George Lucas acknowledged Campbell's theory in mythology, and its influence on the "Star Wars" films.  The Joseph Campbell Foundation and New World Library issued a new edition of "The Hero with a Thousand Faces" in July 2008 as part of the Collected Works of Joseph Campbell series of books, audio and video recordings. In 2011, "Time" named it among the 100 most influential books written in English since 1923.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP] Hero (novel)  Hero is a 2007 Lambda-winning novel, and the only novel by openly gay film producer and novelist Perry Moore. The fantasy novel is about a teenage superhero, Thom Creed, who must deal with his ex-superhero father's disgrace, his own sexuality, and a murderer stalking the world's heroes.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP] Joseph Campbell  Joseph John Campbell (March 26, 1904 – October 30, 1987) was an American writer. He was a professor of literature at Sarah Lawrence College who worked in comparative mythology and comparative religion. His work covers many aspects of the human experience. Campbell's best-known work is his book "The Hero with a Thousand Faces" (1949), in which he discusses his theory of the journey of the archetypal hero shared by world mythologies, termed the monomyth.  Since the publication of "The Hero with a Thousand Faces", Campbell's theories have been applied by a wide variety of modern writers and artists. His philosophy has been summarized by his own often repeated phrase: "Follow your bliss." He gained recognition in Hollywood when George Lucas credited Campbell's work as influencing his "Star Wars" saga.  Campbell's approach to folklore topics such as myth and his influence on popular culture has been the subject of criticism, including from folklorists.
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Hero? [SEP] Big Hero 6 (film)  Big Hero 6 is a 2014 American computer-animated superhero film produced by Walt Disney Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. Loosely based on the Marvel comics of the same name created by Man of Action, it is the 54th Disney animated feature film. The film was directed by Don Hall and Chris Williams and produced by Roy Conli, from a screenplay written by Jordan Roberts and the writing team of Robert L. Baird and Dan Gerson. The film stars the voices of Ryan Potter, Scott Adsit, Daniel Henney, T.J. Miller, Jamie Chung, Damon Wayans Jr., Genesis Rodriguez, James Cromwell, Maya Rudolph, and Alan Tudyk. "Big Hero 6" tells the story of Hiro Hamada, a young robotics prodigy, and Baymax, his late-brother Tadashi's healthcare-provider robot, who form a superhero team to combat a masked villain who is responsible for Tadashi's death.  "Big Hero 6" is the first Disney animated film to feature Marvel Comics characters, whose parent company was acquired by The Walt Disney Company in 2009. Walt Disney Animation Studios created new software technology to produce the film's animated visuals.  "Big Hero 6" premiered at the 27th Tokyo International Film Festival on October 23, 2014, and at the Abu Dhabi Film Festival on October 31; it then premiered at the El Capitan Theatre in Los Angeles on November 4, and was theatrically released in the Disney Digital 3D and RealD 3D formats in the United States on November 7. The film was met with both critical and commercial success. It received positive reviews from critics, with praise for the animation, action sequences, pacing, entertainment value, heart, and emotional weight. It grossed over $657.8 million worldwide and became the highest-grossing animated film of 2014. It won the Academy Award for Best Animated Feature and the Kids' Choice Award for Favorite Animated Movie. It also received nominations for the Annie Award for Best Animated Feature and the Golden Globe Award for Best Animated Feature Film, losing both to "How to Train Your Dragon 2". It was also nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Animated Film, but lost to "The Lego Movie". "Big Hero 6" was released on DVD and Blu-ray Disc on February 24, 2015.  A , which continues the story of the film, aired from 2017 to 2021 on Disney Channel and Disney XD.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] Photochemistry and Spectroscopy (Wiley-Interscience; 1971) (ISBN: 9780471792024)
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP]  The Sun Shines Bright is a collection of seventeen nonfiction science essays by American writer and scientist Isaac Asimov. It was the fifteenth of a series of books collecting essays from The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction. It was first published by Doubleday & Company in 1981.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP]  Balasubramanian Sundaram is an Indian chemist. He holds a position at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research in Bangalore. In 2011, he was awarded the Shanti Swarup Bhatnagar Prize for Science and Technology, the highest science award in India, in the chemical sciences category.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP]  Daniel Stolcius in his Viridarium Chymicum (1624) praises Sendivogius as the author of twelve books. The most famous of these was his "New Chemical Light", published in 1604. Besides a relatively clear exposition of his theory on the existence of a 'food of life' in air, his books contain various scientific, pseudo-scientific and philosophical theories, and were repeatedly translated and widely read among such worthies as Isaac Newton into the 18th century.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP]  He has carried out an intense scientific activity in the fields of photochemistry, photophysics, electron transfer reactions, supramolecular chemistry, nanotechnology, machines and devices at the molecular level, photochemical conversion of solar energy. With its 650 publications cited more than 64,000 times in the scientific literature (H index 119), he is one of the best known chemists in the world. He is author or co-author of texts for researchers in English, some translated into Chinese and Japanese, which are currently adopted in universities in many countries. A few of the most significant texts are: Photochemistry of Coordination Compounds (1970), Supramolecular Photochemistry (1991), Molecular Devices and Machines - Concepts and Perspectives for the Nanoworld (2008), Energy for a Sustainable World (2011), Photochemistry and Photophysics: Concepts, Research, Applications (2014).
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] The Sun Chemist  The Sun Chemist is a thriller by Lionel Davidson.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] Stephenie Meyer  Stephenie Meyer (; née Morgan; born December 24, 1973) is an American novelist and film producer. She is best known for writing the vampire romance series "Twilight", which has sold over 100 million copies, with translations into 37 different languages. Meyer was the bestselling author of 2008 and 2009 in the U.S., having sold over 29 million books in 2008, and 26.5 million in 2009. Meyer received the 2009 Children's Book of the Year award from the British Book Awards for "Breaking Dawn", the "Twilight" series finale.  An avid young reader, she attended Brigham Young University, marrying at the age of twenty-one before graduating with a degree in English in 1997. Having no prior experience as an author, she conceived the idea for the "Twilight" series in a dream. Influenced by the work of Jane Austen and William Shakespeare, she wrote "Twilight" soon thereafter. After many rejections, Little, Brown and Company offered her a $750,000 three-book deal which led to a four-book series, several spin-off novels and novellas, and a series of commercially successful film adaptations. Aside from young adult novels, Meyer has ventured into adult novels with "The Host" (2008) and "The Chemist" (2016). Meyer has worked in film production and cofounded production company Fickle Fish Films. Meyer produced both parts of "" and two other novel adaptations.  Meyer's membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) shaped her novels: there are no drinking (with the exception of her 2008 novel "The Host", in which the character of Doc consumes copious amounts of alcohol to cope with his problems), smoking or explicit sex scenes, and the characters Edward and Bella in her "Twilight" series remain sexually abstinent until marriage. Themes consistent with her religion, including agency, mortality, temptation, and eternal life, are prominent in her work. Meyer's work has been criticized for her overly-simplistic writing style, and feminists assert that her novels encourage traditional gender roles. Meyer's stories have also received praise and she has acquired a fan following.  Meyer was included on "Time" magazine's list of the "100 Most Influential People in 2008", and was included in the "Forbes" Celebrity 100 list of the world's most powerful celebrities in 2009, with her annual earnings exceeding $50 million.<ref name=":1" />
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] Isaac Asimov  Isaac Asimov ( ; 1920 – April 6, 1992) was an American writer and professor of biochemistry at Boston University. During his lifetime, Asimov was considered one of the "Big Three" science fiction writers, along with Robert A. Heinlein and Arthur C. Clarke. A prolific writer, he wrote or edited more than 500 books. He also wrote an estimated 90,000 letters and postcards. Best known for his hard science fiction, Asimov also wrote mysteries and fantasy, as well as much nonfiction.  Asimov's most famous work is the "Foundation" series, the first three books of which won the one-time Hugo Award for "Best All-Time Series" in 1966. His other major series are the "Galactic Empire" series and the "Robot" series. The "Galactic Empire" novels are set in the much earlier history of the same fictional universe as the "Foundation" series. Later, with "Foundation and Earth" (1986), he linked this distant future to the Robot stories, creating a unified "future history" for his stories. He also wrote over 380 short stories, including the social science fiction novelette "Nightfall", which in 1964 was voted the best short science fiction story of all time by the Science Fiction Writers of America. Asimov wrote the "Lucky Starr" series of juvenile science-fiction novels using the pen name Paul French.  Most of his popular science books explain concepts in a historical way, going as far back as possible to a time when the science in question was at its simplest stage. Examples include "Guide to Science", the three-volume "Understanding Physics", and "Asimov's Chronology of Science and Discovery". He wrote on numerous other scientific and non-scientific topics, such as chemistry, astronomy, mathematics, history, biblical exegesis, and literary criticism.  He was president of the American Humanist Association. Several entities have been named in his honor, including the asteroid (5020) Asimov, a crater on Mars, a Brooklyn elementary school, Honda's humanoid robot ASIMO, and four literary awards.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] Linus Pauling  Linus Carl Pauling (; February 28, 1901August 19, 1994) was an American chemist, biochemist, chemical engineer, peace activist, author, and educator. He published more than 1,200 papers and books, of which about 850 dealt with scientific topics. "New Scientist" called him one of the 20 greatest scientists of all time, and as of 2000, he was rated the 16th most important scientist in history. For his scientific work, Pauling was awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1954. For his peace activism, he was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1962. He is one of five people to have won more than one Nobel Prize (the others being Marie Curie, John Bardeen, Frederick Sanger and Karl Barry Sharpless). Of these, he is the only person to have been awarded two unshared Nobel Prizes, and one of two people to be awarded Nobel Prizes in different fields, the other being Marie Curie.<ref name="Nobel" />  Pauling was one of the founders of the fields of quantum chemistry and molecular biology. His contributions to the theory of the chemical bond include the concept of orbital hybridisation and the first accurate scale of electronegativities of the elements. Pauling also worked on the structures of biological molecules, and showed the importance of the alpha helix and beta sheet in protein secondary structure. Pauling's approach combined methods and results from X-ray crystallography, molecular model building, and quantum chemistry. His discoveries inspired the work of James Watson, Francis Crick, Maurice Wilkins and Rosalind Franklin on the structure of DNA, which in turn made it possible for geneticists to crack the DNA code of all organisms.  In his later years, he promoted nuclear disarmament, as well as orthomolecular medicine, megavitamin therapy, and dietary supplements. None of his ideas concerning the medical usefulness of large doses of vitamins have gained much acceptance in the mainstream scientific community. He was married to the American human rights activist Ava Helen Pauling.
Who is the author of The Sun Chemist? [SEP] Sun  The Sun is a star at the center of the Solar System. It is a nearly perfect ball of hot plasma, heated to incandescence by nuclear fusion reactions in its core. The Sun radiates this energy mainly as light, ultraviolet, and infrared radiation, and is the most important source of energy for life on Earth.  The Sun's radius is about , or 109 times that of Earth. Its mass is about 330,000 times that of Earth, comprising about 99.86% of the total mass of the Solar System. Roughly three-quarters of the Sun's mass consists of hydrogen (~73%); the rest is mostly helium (~25%), with much smaller quantities of heavier elements, including oxygen, carbon, neon, and iron.  The Sun is a G-type main-sequence star (G2V). As such, it is informally, and not completely accurately, referred to as a yellow dwarf (its light is actually white). It formed approximately 4.6 billion years ago from the gravitational collapse of matter within a region of a large molecular cloud. Most of this matter gathered in the center, whereas the rest flattened into an orbiting disk that became the Solar System. The central mass became so hot and dense that it eventually initiated nuclear fusion in its core. It is thought that almost all stars form by this process.  Every second, the Sun's core fuses about 600 million tons of hydrogen into helium, and in the process converts 4 million tons of matter into energy. This energy, which can take between 10,000 and 170,000 years to escape the core, is the source of the Sun's light and heat. When hydrogen fusion in its core has diminished to the point at which the Sun is no longer in hydrostatic equilibrium, its core will undergo a marked increase in density and temperature while its outer layers expand, eventually transforming the Sun into a red giant. It is calculated that the Sun will become sufficiently large to engulf the current orbits of Mercury and Venus, and render Earth uninhabitable – but not for about five billion years. After this, it will shed its outer layers and become a dense type of cooling star known as a white dwarf, and no longer produce energy by fusion, but still glow and give off heat from its previous fusion.  The enormous effect of the Sun on Earth has been recognized since prehistoric times. The Sun was thought of by some cultures as a deity. The synodic rotation of Earth and its orbit around the Sun are the basis of some solar calendars. The predominant calendar in use today is the Gregorian calendar which is based upon the standard 16th-century interpretation of the Sun's observed movement as actual movement.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP]  Lotte's Gift is a play by David Williamson. It was written as a deliberate attempt by Williamson to try something in a different style and was written as a vehicle for guitarist Karin Schaupp.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP]  Australian Labor Party member of the Queensland Parliament for Noosa, announced that Williamson would be her campaign manager as she sought to recontest her seat as an Independent. In 2007 appeared Lotte's Gift, a one-woman show starring Karin Schaupp, which traced a journey through Schaupp's own life as well as those of her mother and grandmother (the Lotte of the title). In 2021 his memoir, Home Truths, was published by HarperCollins. Reviewing the book for The Sydney Morning Herald, Peter Craven wrote "He comes across as a likeable, flawed fellow with no more blindness than people of lesser talent".
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP]  Lotte Weeda is a romance novel by Dutch author Maarten 't Hart. It was first published in 2004. It narrates the story of the panic that starts in a village in the province of South Holland after several villagers pass away shortly after they have been depicted in a photo book.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP]  Lotte Salling is a Danish writer born on February 9, 1964, in Århus, Denmark. She writes short stories for young children.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP]  Karin Schaupp approached Williamson in 2002 to write the project. She wanted to act in a production that combined drama with her musical skills. Williamson was enthusiastic and started asking Schaupp about her family history. When the guitarist told her about her grandmother Lotte, Williamson decided to structure the story around three generations of women in her family. The play premiered at the 2006 Noosa Festival as Strings Under Her Fingers. It was subsequently reworked as Lotte's Gift.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP] David Williamson  David Keith Williamson AO (born 24 February 1942) is an Australian dramatist and playwright. He has also written screenplays and teleplays.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP] The Coldest Game  The Coldest Game (Polish: Ukryta gra) is a 2019 English-language Polish spy film. It is directed by Łukasz Kośmicki and stars Bill Pullman as Joshua Mansky, an American alcoholic former chess champion who becomes involved in a Cold War confrontation between nuclear superpowers.  This spy thriller is the last film produced by Piotr Woźniak-Starak, who died in an apparent boating accident shortly before the premiere.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP] Lotte Lehmann  Charlotte "Lotte" Lehmann (February 27, 1888 – August 26, 1976) was a German soprano who was especially associated with German repertory. She gave memorable performances in the operas of Richard Strauss, Richard Wagner, Ludwig van Beethoven, Puccini, Mozart, and Massenet. The Marschallin in "Der Rosenkavalier", Sieglinde in "Die Walküre" and the title-role in "Fidelio" are considered her greatest roles. During her long career, Lehmann also made more than five hundred recordings.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP] Johann Wolfgang von Goethe  Johann Wolfgang von Goethe (28 August 1749 – 22 March 1832) was a German poet, playwright, novelist, scientist, statesman, theatre director, and critic.  Goethe took up residence in Weimar in November 1775 following the success of his first novel, "The Sorrows of Young Werther" (1774). He was ennobled by the Duke of Saxe-Weimar, Karl August, in 1782. Goethe was an early participant in the "Sturm und Drang" literary movement. During his first ten years in Weimar, Goethe became a member of the Duke's privy council (1776–1785), sat on the war and highway commissions, oversaw the reopening of silver mines in nearby Ilmenau, and implemented a series of administrative reforms at the University of Jena. He also contributed to the planning of Weimar's botanical park and the rebuilding of its Ducal Palace.<ref name=Weimar/>  Goethe's first major scientific work, the "Metamorphosis of Plants", was published after he returned from a 1788 tour of Italy. In 1791 he was made managing director of the theatre at Weimar, and in 1794 he began a friendship with the dramatist, historian, and philosopher Friedrich Schiller, whose plays he premiered until Schiller's death in 1805. During this period Goethe published his second novel, "Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship"; the verse epic "Hermann and Dorothea", and, in 1808, the first part of his most celebrated drama, "Faust". His conversations and various shared undertakings throughout the 1790s with Schiller, Johann Gottlieb Fichte, Johann Gottfried Herder, Alexander von Humboldt, Wilhelm von Humboldt, and August and Friedrich Schlegel have come to be collectively termed Weimar Classicism.  The German philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer named "Wilhelm Meister's Apprenticeship" one of the four greatest novels ever written,<ref name="schopenhauer_art"/> while the American philosopher and essayist Ralph Waldo Emerson selected Goethe as one of six "representative men" in his work of the same name (along with Plato, Emanuel Swedenborg, Montaigne, Napoleon, and Shakespeare). Goethe's comments and observations form the basis of several biographical works, notably Johann Peter Eckermann's "Conversations with Goethe" (1836). His poems were set to music by many composers including Mozart, Beethoven, Schubert, Berlioz, Liszt, Wagner, and Mahler.
Who is the author of Lotte's Gift? [SEP] 7 First Kisses  7 First Kisses () is a South Korean promotional web series produced for Lotte Duty Free Shop. It aired online through Naver TV Cast and YouTube every Monday and Thursday at 10:00 (KST) from December 5, 2016, to January 5, 2017.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP]  Collision is a 2008 thriller novel by Jeff Abbott. The novel was also known as Run in the UK.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP]  Collision is an American documentary film by Darren Doane released on October 27, 2009. It features a debate between prominent antitheist Christopher Hitchens and Douglas Wilson, a pastor of Christ Church, a CREC church located in Moscow, Idaho. Described by Hitchens as a "buddy-and-road" movie, it provides an overview of several days' worth of debates following the release of their book Is Christianity Good for the World? The book was generated by correspondence published in the magazine Christianity Today.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP]  The partnership between Hitchens and Wilson began in 2007, when Hitchens invited anyone to debate his viewpoints, following the release of his book God is not Great. Wilson's agent heard the offer and put him in touch with Hitchens, leading to a series of written debates published in Christianity Today, which eventually were compiled into the book Is Christianity Good for the World?. Filmmaker Darren Doane heard about the exchanges between the two and sought them out to make a film. The film was featured on CNN, Fox News; NPR; The Laura Ingraham Show and others. After the men finally met in person while shooting the film, both got along well, despite their heated exchanges, in part because of a shared appreciation for P. G. Wodehouse.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Collision (Simon & Schuster, 2012, ISBN: 978-1-4405-5239-7), (Waypoint Books, 2018) ; Implosion (Simon & Schuster, 2013, ISBN: 978-1-4405-6115-3), (Waypoint Books, 2018) ; Explosion (Simon & Schuster, 2013, ISBN: 978-1-4405-6113-9), (Waypoint Books, 2018) Science Fiction Romance, written as Berinn Rae
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP]  Ben Forsberg is an independent contractor who has buried himself in his work after the death of his wife. Everything changes when two government agents turn up on his door to question him for a murder involving a notorious assassin.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Worlds in Collision  Worlds in Collision is a book by Immanuel Velikovsky published in 1950. The book postulates that around the 15th century BC, the planet Venus was ejected from Jupiter as a comet or comet-like object and passed near Earth (an actual collision is not mentioned). The object allegedly changed Earth's orbit and axis, causing innumerable catastrophes that are mentioned in early mythologies and religions from around the world. The book has been heavily criticized as a work of pseudoscience and catastrophism, and many of its claims are completely rejected by the established scientific community as they are not supported by any available evidence.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Collision Course (Hinton novel)  Collision Course is a novel by British author Nigel Hinton. It was his first book and was published for the first time in 1976 with later editions revised. It tells the story of a teenage boy who stole a motorcycle and killed someone with it then he tried to get through his everyday life whilst trying to avoid getting caught. The novel also deals with the issue of adolescence. The novel is used in English lessons at secondary schools.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Collision Course (Silverberg novel)  Collision Course is a science fiction novel by American author Robert Silverberg, first published in hardcover in 1961 by Avalon Books and reprinted in paperback as an Ace Double later that year. Ace reissued it as a stand-alone volume in 1977 and 1982; a Tor paperback appeared in 1988. An Italian translation was also published in 1961, and a German translation later appeared. Silverberg planned the novel as a serial for "Astounding Science Fiction", but John W. Campbell rejected the work and Silverberg eventually sold a shorter version to "Amazing Stories", where it appeared in 1959.  "Collision Course" details the response of the political leadership of Earth to an eventual collision of their aggressive expanding colonial empire with a newly discovered alien race.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Ice Age: Collision Course  Ice Age: Collision Course is a 2016 American computer-animated adventure comedy film produced by Blue Sky Studios and distributed by 20th Century Fox. It is the sequel to "" (2012) and the fifth installment in the "Ice Age" film series. The film was directed by Michael Thurmeier.<ref name="AWNMannyDiegoSidScratReturn" /> and stars Ray Romano, John Leguizamo, Denis Leary, Keke Palmer, Josh Peck, Simon Pegg, Seann William Scott, Wanda Sykes, Jennifer Lopez, and Queen Latifah reprising their roles from previous films, with Adam DeVine, Jesse Tyler Ferguson, Max Greenfield, Jessie J, and Nick Offerman voicing new characters. In the film, after Scrat is propelled into outer space in an abandoned spaceship during an attempt to bury his acorn and accidentally sends a giant asteroid towards Earth, Manny, the Herd, and Buck must go on a life-or-death mission to find a way to fend it off.  The film premiered at the Sydney Film Festival on June 19, 2016, and was released in the United States on July 22, 2016. The film received generally negative reviews from critics with Rotten Tomatoes calling it "unoriginal and unfunny". It grossed $408.5 million worldwide against a $105 million production budget, grossing below expectations in the US market, but faring better internationally. "Ice Age: Collision Course" was the final film in the "Ice Age" series to be produced by Blue Sky Studios before its closure on April 10, 2021. A standalone spin-off, titled "The Ice Age Adventures of Buck Wild", was released in 2022 on Disney+. With the exception of Simon Pegg, who returned as the voice of Buck, none of the original actors in the spin-off reprised their roles.
Who is the author of Collision? [SEP] Collision (TV series)  Collision is a five-part British television drama serial, which debuted on ITV in November 2009. In the same month, it was also on PBS as a series in two parts. It tells the story of a group of strangers whose lives intertwine following a devastating car crash. The crash opens a number of startling revelations as stories of everything from government cover-ups and smuggling, to embezzlement and murder start to unravel.  The original British broadcast of "Collision" was edited from the original 5 hours (shown in five parts) down to three and a half hours (210 minutes, shown in two parts). The American broadcast on PBS's "Masterpiece Contemporary", the Australian broadcast on ABC1 and the Region 1 (America and Canada) DVD release all featured the shortened version. In Australia, Foxtel and Austar's W Channel aired "Collision" in its original format of five 45-minute episodes (excluding advertisements), Tuesday, 15 March 2011.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP]  Robert Kendall Goff is a lawyer, speaker, and author of the New York Times best-selling books Love Does and Everybody, Always. Goff currently works with Love Does, formerly known as Restore International, a non-profit organization he founded.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP]  obsessive teenage love." Publishers Weekly said the book "meaningfully highlights known patterns of intimate-partner abuse and speaks to the joy and importance of enduring friendship". Always Forever Maybe was named to the Texas Library Association's TAYSHAS 2019 Reading List and is also published in Danish. Rissi's second young adult novel, Nobody Knows But You (HarperCollins, 2020), "intersperses news reports, eyewitness testimony, personal letters and texts, and court transcripts to recount the eight summer weeks that led to a brutal murder at Camp Cavanick," according to Publishers Weekly. The book was named a Junior Library Guild Gold Standard Selection. Nobody Knows But You is also published in Dutch.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP]  "Always" is a science fiction short story by American writer Karen Joy Fowler. Originally published in Asimov's Science Fiction, it won the 2007 Nebula Award for Best Short Story.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] David Eddings, (1931–2009) author of Belgariad, Malloreon, Elenium, Tamuli and The Dreamers novels ; E. R. Eddison, (1882–1945) author of The Worm Ouroboros ; C. M. Eddy, Jr., (1896–1967) author of Exit Into Eternity: Tales of the Bizarre and Supernatural ; Graham Edwards, (born 1965) writer of the Dragoncharm and Stone and Sky trilogies ; Phyllis Eisenstein, (1946–2020), author of Shadow of Earth and Born to Exile ; Mircea Eliade, (1907–1986) author of Bengal Nights ; Kate Elliott, (born 1958) author of the Crown of Stars series ; Harlan Ellison, (1934–2018) anthologist and author of Mefisto in Onyx ; Ernest Elmore, (1901–1957) author of The Lumpton Gobbelings ; Michael Ende, (1929–1995) author of The Neverending Story ; Steven Erikson, (born 1959) author of the Malazan Book of the Fallen ; Lloyd Arthur Eshbach, (1910–2003) author and proprietor of Fantasy Press ; Javier Abril Espinoza, (born 1967) ; Ian Cameron Esslemont, (born 1962) author of the Novels of the Malazan Empire series ; Jennifer Estep, author of Elemental Assassin series and Crown of Shard series ; Rose Estes, creator of the Endless Quest gamebook series
Who is the author of Always? [SEP]  "Always" was first published in the April/May 2007 issue of Asimov's Science Fiction. It was then republished in several "best of" volumes collecting science fiction stories from that year such as Year's Best SF 13 and Science Fiction: The Best of the Year, 2008 Edition. Fowler later included the story in her collection What I Didn't See and Other Stories, which was first published in 2010 by Small Beer Press.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] Always on My Mind  "Always on My Mind" is a ballad written by Wayne Carson, Johnny Christopher, and Mark James, first recorded by Brenda Lee, and first released by Gwen McCrae (as "You Were Always on My Mind") in March 1972. Lee's version was released three months later in June 1972. The song has been a crossover hit, charting in both the country and western and pop categories. Elvis Presley's recording was the first hit version of the song.  AllMusic lists more than 300 recorded releases of the song in versions by dozens of performers. While Lee's version reached no. 45 on the US country chart in 1972, other performers reached the Top 20 on the country and/or pop charts in the United States and elsewhere with their own versions: Elvis Presley (1972, US country; UK pop Top Ten); John Wesley Ryles (1979, US country) and Willie Nelson's Grammy Award-winning version (1982, US/Canada country number one; US/Canada pop Top Ten). Plus the Pet Shop Boys' 1987 hi-NRG/synth-pop interpretation (UK number one; US Top Ten).
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] I Will Always Love You  "I Will Always Love You" is a song written and originally recorded in 1973 by American singer-songwriter Dolly Parton. Written as a farewell to her business partner and mentor Porter Wagoner, expressing Parton's decision to pursue a solo career, the country single was released in 1974. The song was a commercial success for Parton, twice reaching the top spot of "Billboard" Hot Country Songs: first in June 1974, then again in October 1982, with a re-recording for "The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas" soundtrack.  Whitney Houston recorded a soul-ballad arrangement of the song for the 1992 film "The Bodyguard". Houston's version peaked at number one on the "Billboard" Hot 100 for a then-record-breaking 14 weeks. The single was certified Diamond by the RIAA, making Houston's first Diamond single, the third female artist who had both a Diamond single and a Diamond album, and becoming the best-selling single by a woman in the U.S. The song was a global success, topping the charts in almost all countries. With over 20 million copies sold it became the best-selling single of all time by a female solo artist. Houston won the Grammy Award for Record of the Year in 1994 for "I Will Always Love You".  The song has been recorded by many other artists including Linda Ronstadt, John Doe, Amber Riley, LeAnn Rimes and Sarah Washington, whose dance version reached number 12 on the UK Singles Chart.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] Always Remember Us This Way  "Always Remember Us This Way" is a song from the 2018 film "A Star Is Born" and its soundtrack of the same name, performed by the film's star Lady Gaga. It was released as soundtrack's second single in Italy and France in January 2019. The song was written by Lady Gaga, Natalie Hemby, Hillary Lindsey, and Lori McKenna, and produced by Dave Cobb and Lady Gaga.  The song has received widespread critical acclaim and has reached the top of the record chart in Iceland and the top ten in Belgium (both Flanders and Wallonia), Hungary, Ireland, Norway, Portugal, Scotland, Sweden and Switzerland, the digital charts of Luxembourg, Slovakia and the combined European chart. The track has also reached the top twenty in Denmark, Estonia, France, Malaysia, and on the digital chart of Czech Republic. It reached the top twenty of the Australian and New Zealand charts, while achieving triple platinum certification from the former governing body.  "Always Remember Us This Way" received a nomination for Song of the Year at the 62nd Grammy Awards, the second nomination from the album in this category after "Shallow", which was nominated for the year before. Gaga performed the song live during her 2022 stadium tour, The Chromatica Ball.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] Always Running  Always Running: La Vida Loca, Gang Days in L.A. is a 1993 autobiographical book by Mexican-American author Luis J. Rodriguez. In the book, Rodriguez recounts his days as a member of a street gang in Los Angeles (specifically, East Los Angeles and the city's eastern suburbs).  The book has been highly acclaimed and contrasted with the works of Louis-Ferdinand Celine and George Orwell's "Down and Out in Paris and London" in its description of the lives of desperate, impoverished individuals in big cities.
Who is the author of Always? [SEP] Always (Irving Berlin song)  "Always" is a popular song written by Irving Berlin in 1925, as a wedding gift for his wife Ellin Mackay, whom he married in 1926, and to whom he presented the substantial royalties.   Although legend (and Groucho Marx) claims Berlin wrote the song "Always" for "The Cocoanuts", he never meant for the song to be included in that musical, and it was not. Thematically, it serves as a sequel to Berlin's earlier song "When I Lost You," which pertained to the death of his first wife Dorothy.  The song entered into the public domain on January 1, 2021.  The song is an important plot element in Noël Coward's play "Blithe Spirit". It also features in the 1944 film "Christmas Holiday", in which it is sung by Deanna Durbin.
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP]  Freyfogle is known for his wide-ranging, critical writings about private property, which he presents as an evolving, morally complex social institution that is as much cultural as it is legal. His 2003 book, The Land We Share: Private Property and the Common Good, critiques property laws and norms from an ecological perspective and proposes reforms to reduce environmental decline. His 2007 book, On Private Property: Finding Common Ground on the Ownership of Land, seeks to correct what he terms the widespread “half truths” about private property, explores property’s functions and justifications, considers when landowners should be paid for development restrictions, and proposes a “bill of rights” for “the
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP]  Joseph William Singer is an American legal theorist, specializing in property law. He received his master's degree in Political Science and his J.D. degree from Harvard. He is the Bussey Professor of Law at Harvard University, where he has been teaching since 1992. Previously, he taught at Boston University School of Law and practiced law in Boston. He also served as a law clerk in the Supreme Court of New Jersey. Singer has authored an extensive body of work, including Entitlement: The Paradoxes of Property (Yale University Press, 2000), The Edges of the Field: Lessons on the Obligations of Ownership (Beacon Press, 2000), and No Freedom without Regulation: The Hidden Lesson of the Subprime Crisis (Yale University Press, 2015). In addition to his books on property law and federal Native American law, he has written more than 70 law review articles. In 2015, Singer was awarded the Brigham-Kanner Property Rights Prize from the College of William and Mary School of Law for his contributions to the advancement of private property rights.
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] Ownership Economics: On the Foundations of Interest, Money, Markets, Business Cycles and Economic Development, Routledge, with Gunnar Heinsohn, 2013. ; Marx and Keynes: Private Property and Money, 1997, with Gunnar Heinsohn ; The Property Foundation of Franchising, 2006. ; Sweden: An Up-to-date Travel Guide, 1999, with Gerhard Lemmer, Birgit Krämer. ; Einen Dieb Fangen, 1995.
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] "On the Ultimate Justification of the Ethics of Private Property." Liberty, vol. 2, no. 1 (September 1988): 20–22. ; "Symposium: Breakthrough or Buncombe?" Liberty, vol. 2, no. 2 (November 1988): 44–54. ; Symposium proceedings featuring Murray N. Rothbard, D. Friedman, L. Yeager, D. Gordon and D. Rasmussen. ; "Socialism: A Property or Knowledge Problem?" Review of Austrian Economics, vol. 9 (March 1996): 143–149.. ; "Small is Beautiful and Efficient: The Case for Secession." Telos, vol. 107 (Spring 1996). ; "The Libertarian Case for Free Trade and Restricted Immigration." Journal of Libertarian Studies, vol. 13, no. 2 (Summer 1998). Center for Libertarian Studies. ; Reprinted by the Center for Immigration Studies (May 2001). ; "On Property and Exploitation," with Walter Block. International Journal of Value-Based Management, vol. 15 (2002): 225–236. ; "My Battle with the Thought Police." Mises Daily (12 April 2005). Ludwig von Mises Institute.
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP]  James Gwartney and others of Economics: Public and Private Choice, an economics principles textbook now in its 17th edition. This textbook introduced public choice economics to a broad student audience. Public choice is the application of economic principles to governmental decision-making. Among other writing, he contributed to Re-Thinking Green, edited Cutting Green Tape and was the author of Eco-Nomics: What Everyone Should Know about Economics and the Environment, which received the 2004 Sir Anthony Fisher Memorial Award. He was a coauthor of Common Sense Economics: What Everyone Should Know about Wealth and Prosperity. Stroup contributed to the development of free market environmentalism and its academic forerunner, the New
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] Hans-Hermann Hoppe  Hans-Hermann Hoppe (; ; born 2 September 1949) is a German-American economist of the Austrian School, philosopher and political theorist. He is Professor Emeritus of Economics at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), Senior Fellow of the Ludwig von Mises Institute, and the founder and president of the Property and Freedom Society.  Hoppe identifies as an austro-libertarian and anarcho-capitalist, and has written extensively in opposition to democracy in his book "".<ref name="gordondemocracy" />
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP]
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] Private property  Private property is a legal designation for the ownership of property by non-governmental legal entities. Private property is distinguishable from public property and personal property, which is owned by a state entity, and from collective or cooperative property, which is owned by a group of non-governmental entities.  Private property is foundational to capitalism, an economic system based on the private ownership of the means of production and their operation for profit. The distinction between private and personal property varies depending on political philosophy, with socialist perspectives making a hard distinction between the two. As a legal concept, private property is defined and enforced by a country's political system.
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] Business ethics  Business ethics (also known as Corporate Ethics) is a form of applied ethics or professional ethics, that examines ethical principles and moral or ethical problems that can arise in a business environment. It applies to all aspects of business conduct and is relevant to the conduct of individuals and entire organizations. These ethics originate from individuals, organizational statements or the legal system. These norms, values, ethical, and unethical practices are the principles that guide a business.  Business ethics refers to contemporary organizational standards, principles, sets of values and norms that govern the actions and behavior of an individual in the business organization. Business ethics have two dimensions, normative business ethics or descriptive business ethics. As a corporate practice and a career specialization, the field is primarily normative. Academics attempting to understand business behavior employ descriptive methods. The range and quantity of business ethical issues reflects the interaction of profit-maximizing behavior with non-economic concerns.  Interest in business ethics accelerated dramatically during the 1980s and 1990s, both within major corporations and within academia. For example, most major corporations today promote their commitment to non-economic values under headings such as ethics codes and social responsibility charters.  Adam Smith said in 1776, "People of the same trade seldom meet together, even for merriment and diversion, but the conversation ends in a conspiracy against the public, or in some contrivance to raise prices." Governments use laws and regulations to point business behavior in what they perceive to be beneficial directions. Ethics implicitly regulates areas and details of behavior that lie beyond governmental control. The emergence of large corporations with limited relationships and sensitivity to the communities in which they operate accelerated the development of formal ethics regimes.  Maintaining an ethical status is the responsibility of the manager of the business. According to a 1990 article in the "Journal of Business Ethics", "Managing ethical behavior is one of the most pervasive and complex problems facing business organizations today."
Who is the author of The Economics and Ethics of Private Property? [SEP] Adam Smith  Adam Smith (baptized 1723 – 17 July 1790) was a Scottish economist and philosopher who was a pioneer in the thinking of political economy and key figure during the Scottish Enlightenment. Seen by some as "The Father of Economics" or "The Father of Capitalism", he wrote two classic works, "The Theory of Moral Sentiments" (1759) and "An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of Nations" (1776). The latter, often abbreviated as "The Wealth of Nations", is considered his "magnum opus" and the first modern work that treats economics as a comprehensive system and as an academic discipline. Smith refuses to explain the distribution of wealth and power in terms of God's will and instead appeals to natural, political, social, economic and technological factors and the interactions between them. Among other economic theories, the work introduced Smith's idea of absolute advantage.  Smith studied social philosophy at the University of Glasgow and at Balliol College, Oxford, where he was one of the first students to benefit from scholarships set up by fellow Scot John Snell. After graduating, he delivered a successful series of public lectures at the University of Edinburgh, leading him to collaborate with David Hume during the Scottish Enlightenment. Smith obtained a professorship at Glasgow, teaching moral philosophy and during this time, wrote and published "The Theory of Moral Sentiments". In his later life, he took a tutoring position that allowed him to travel throughout Europe, where he met other intellectual leaders of his day.  As a reaction to the common policy of protecting national markets and merchants, what came to be known as mercantilism, Smith laid the foundations of classical free market economic theory. "The Wealth of Nations" was a precursor to the modern academic discipline of economics. In this and other works, he developed the concept of division of labour and expounded upon how rational self-interest and competition can lead to economic prosperity. Smith was controversial in his own day and his general approach and writing style were often satirised by writers such as Horace Walpole.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP]  Tat wrote The New Boy, a fictitious account of a troubled rugby player in Washington state, when it was released it ranked #1 in Rugby for both paperback and kindle editions.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP]  Every Day has received many positive reviews like one from Kirkus Reviews which claimed, "Levithan's self-conscious, analytical style marries perfectly with the plot. His musings on love, longing and human nature knit seamlessly with A's journey. Readers will devour his trademark poetic wordplay and cadences that feel as fresh as they were when he wrote Boy Meets Boy (2003)." Susan Carpenter of the Los Angeles Times wrote, "It's the rare book that challenges gender presumptions in a way that's as entertaining as it is unexpected and, perhaps most important, that's relatable to teens who may not think they need sensitivity training when it comes to sexual orientation and the nature of true love. Every Day is precisely such a book ... A story that is always alluring, oftentimes humorous and much like love itself—splendorous." Frank Bruni of The New York Times
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP]  Shapiro is a former senior editor at SPIN magazine, a founding editor and senior writer of Icon Magazine, and he is a contributor to The New York Times Magazine and other publications. His debut novel, The Every Boy (published by Houghton Mifflin), is a New York Times Editors' Choice and a 2005 Book Sense Notable Book that he adapted into a Black List script. His second book, "You Can Be Right (or You Can Be Married): Looking for Love in the Age of Divorce" was released on September 4, 2012, is non-fiction about divorce, was featured on The Today Show, and optioned by CBS. He was the 2007 Artist-in-Residence at Bucknell University in Lewisburg, Pennsylvania.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP]  Every Boy’s Book of Outer Space Stories is a 1960 anthology of science fiction short stories edited by T. E. Dikty and published by Fredrick Fell. Most of the stories had originally appeared in the magazines Astounding, Thrilling Wonder Stories and Galaxy Science Fiction.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP]  The Every Boy's Library: Boy Scout Edition refers to a collection of 73 books that were published under the backing of the Boy Scouts of America. Every title was selected by the Scouts Library Commission, and were branded towards Scouts and included themes that would be of interest to young boys in the Scouting movement. These re-released many classic novels as well as newer works by those associated with the Scouting movement, include Ernest Thompson Seton and Daniel Carter Beard. This series of reprints was published by Grosset & Dunlap from 1911 with reprints and editions lasting until the mid-1930s. Each edition includes a letter "To The Public" by then Chief Scout Executive James E. West. 30 original works
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP] To All the Boys I've Loved Before  To All the Boys I've Loved Before is a 2014 young adult romance novel by American author Jenny Han, first published by Simon & Schuster and released on April 15, 2014. Han was inspired to write the book based on her own habit of writing love letters to boys she had crushes on as a teenager. The novel was followed by two sequels, "P.S. I Still Love You", released on May 26, 2015, and "Always and Forever, Lara Jean", released on May 2, 2017.  A film adaptation of the book was released on Netflix in 2018. Its plot is similar to the original book with a few changes.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP] About a Boy (novel)  About a Boy is a 1998 coming of age novel written by British writer Nick Hornby, which has sold over a million copies. The novel was later adapted into a feature film in 2002 and a television series in 2014.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP] A Suitable Boy  A Suitable Boy is a novel by Vikram Seth, published in 1993. With 1,349 pages (1,488 pages in paperback), the English-language book is one of the longest novels published in a single volume.  "A Suitable Boy" is set in a newly post-independence, post-partition India. The novel follows four families during 18 months, and centres on Mrs. Rupa Mehra's efforts to arrange the marriage of her younger daughter, Lata, to a "suitable boy". Lata is a 19-year-old university student who refuses to be influenced by her domineering mother or opinionated brother, Arun. Her story revolves around the choice she is forced to make between her suitors Kabir, Haresh, and Amit.  It begins in the fictional town of Brahmpur, located along the Ganges. Patna, Brahmpur, along with Calcutta, Delhi, Lucknow and other Indian cities, forms a colourful backdrop for the emerging stories.  The novel alternately offers satirical and earnest examinations of national political issues in the period leading up to the first post-Independence national election of 1952, including Hindu–Muslim strife, the status of lower caste peoples such as the jatav, land reforms and the eclipse of the feudal princes and landlords, academic affairs, abolition of the Zamindari system, family relations and a range of further issues of importance to the characters.  The novel is divided into 19 parts, with each generally focusing on a different subplot. Each part is described in rhyming couplet form on the contents page.
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP] The Every Boy  The Every Boy is the debut novel by American author and filmmaker Dana Adam Shapiro.  The author Dana Adam Shapiro produced and co-directed Murderball, the Academy Award nominated documentary about quadriplegic rugby players. He is a former senior editor at Spin and a contributor to The New York Times Magazine and other publications. With Plan B Entertainment, he is set to write and direct a movie based on "The Every Boy".
Who is the author of The Every Boy? [SEP] A Boy and His Dog  A Boy and His Dog is a cycle of narratives by author Harlan Ellison. The cycle tells the story of an amoral boy (Vic) and his telepathic dog (Blood), who work together as a team to survive in the post-apocalyptic world after a nuclear war. The original 1969 novella was adapted into the 1975 film "A Boy and His Dog" directed by L.Q. Jones. Both the story and the film were well-received by critics and science fiction fans, but the film was not successful commercially. The original novella was followed by short stories and a graphic novel.  The film adaptation was an influence on "Love and Monsters" (2020) by Michael Matthews. The story and its film adaptation have also been mentioned to be influential in the creation of the "Fallout" video game series by Black Isle Studios.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP]  The Middle Years is an incomplete book of autobiography by Henry James, posthumously published in 1917. The book covers the early years of James' residence in Europe and his meetings with writers such as George Eliot, Alfred Tennyson, and James Russell Lowell.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP]  "The Middle Years" is a short story by Henry James, first published in Scribner's Magazine in 1893. The novelist in the tale speculates that he has spent his whole life learning how to write, so a second life would make sense, "to apply the lesson." Second lives aren't usually available, so the novelist says of himself and his fellow artists: "We work in the dark—we do what we can—we give what we have. Our doubt is our passion and our passion is our task. The rest is the madness of art."
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP]  Philip Roth in his 1979 work The Ghost Writer references and quotes from "The Middle Years" extensively with long sections being quoted verbatim. A part of the theme of The Ghost Writer can be seen as a homage to "The Middle Years" with Nathan Zuckerman and E.I Lonoff representing Dr. Hugh and Dencombe respectively.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP]  The book was named a Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) 2012 Top Ten Quick Picks for Reluctant Young Readers award. Based on Middle School’s success James Patterson was nominated for the Children's Book Council's Author of the Year award.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP]  Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life is a realistic fiction novel by James Patterson that serves as the beginning of Patterson's Middle School series. Published in the United States by Little, Brown and Company on June 27, 2011, the book follows sixth grader Rafe Khatchadorian as he begins middle school and "copes with the awkwardness of adolescence: crushes, bullying, family issues" as he attempts to break every school rule in the code of conduct. The book received critical acclaim from many reviewers and went on to spawn a sequel, Middle School: Get Me Out of Here!.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP] The Middle Years  "The Middle Years" is a short story by Henry James, first published in "Scribner's Magazine" in 1893. The novelist in the tale speculates that he has spent his whole life learning how to write, so a second life would make sense, "to apply the lesson." Second lives aren't usually available, so the novelist says of himself and his fellow artists: "We work in the dark—we do what we can—we give what we have. Our doubt is our passion and our passion is our task. The rest is the madness of art."
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP] Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life  Middle School: The Worst Years of My Life is a realistic fiction novel by James Patterson that serves as the beginning of Patterson's "Middle School" series. as he attempts to break every school rule in the code of conduct. The book received critical acclaim from many reviewers and went on to spawn a sequel, "Middle School: Get Me Out of Here!".
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP] Harper Lee  Nelle Harper Lee (April 28, 1926February 19, 2016) was an American novelist best known for her 1960 novel "To Kill a Mockingbird". It won the 1961 Pulitzer Prize and has become a classic of modern American literature. Lee has received numerous accolades and honorary degrees, including the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2007 which was awarded for her contribution to literature. She assisted her close friend Truman Capote in his research for the book "In Cold Blood" (1966). Capote was the basis for the character Dill Harris in "To Kill a Mockingbird".  The plot and characters of "To Kill a Mockingbird" are loosely based on Lee's observations of her family and neighbors, as well as an event that occurred near her hometown in 1936 when she was 10. The novel deals with the irrationality of adult attitudes towards race and class in the Deep South of the 1930s, as depicted through the eyes of two children. It was inspired by racist attitudes in her hometown of Monroeville, Alabama. "Go Set a Watchman", written in the mid 1950s, was published in July 2015 as a sequel to "Mockingbird" but was later confirmed to be an earlier draft of "Mockingbird".
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP] Charles Dickens  Charles John Huffam Dickens (; 7 February 1812 – 9 June 1870) was an English writer and social critic. He created some of the world's best-known fictional characters and is regarded by many as the greatest novelist of the Victorian era. His works enjoyed unprecedented popularity during his lifetime and, by the 20th century, critics and scholars had recognised him as a literary genius. His novels and short stories are widely read today.  Born in Portsmouth, Dickens left school at the age of 12 to work in a boot-blacking factory when his father was incarcerated in a debtors' prison. After three years he returned to school, before he began his literary career as a journalist. Dickens edited a weekly journal for 20 years, wrote 15 novels, five novellas, hundreds of short stories and non-fiction articles, lectured and performed readings extensively, was an indefatigable letter writer, and campaigned vigorously for children's rights, for education, and for other social reforms.  Dickens's literary success began with the 1836 serial publication of "The Pickwick Papers", a publishing phenomenon—thanks largely to the introduction of the character Sam Weller in the fourth episode—that sparked "Pickwick" merchandise and spin-offs. Within a few years Dickens had become an international literary celebrity, famous for his humour, satire and keen observation of character and society. His novels, most of them published in monthly or weekly installments, pioneered the serial publication of narrative fiction, which became the dominant Victorian mode for novel publication. Cliffhanger endings in his serial publications kept readers in suspense. The instalment format allowed Dickens to evaluate his audience's reaction, and he often modified his plot and character development based on such feedback. His plots were carefully constructed and he often wove elements from topical events into his narratives. Masses of the illiterate poor would individually pay a halfpenny to have each new monthly episode read to them, opening up and inspiring a new class of readers.  His 1843 novella "A Christmas Carol" remains especially popular and continues to inspire adaptations in every artistic genre. "Oliver Twist" and "Great Expectations" are also frequently adapted and, like many of his novels, evoke images of early Victorian London. His 1859 novel "A Tale of Two Cities" (set in London and Paris) is his best-known work of historical fiction. The most famous celebrity of his era, he undertook, in response to public demand, a series of public reading tours in the later part of his career.
Who is the author of The Middle Years? [SEP] Alan Watts  Alan Wilson Watts (6 January 1915 – 16 November 1973) was an English writer, speaker and self-styled "philosophical entertainer", known for interpreting and popularising Japanese, Chinese and Indian traditions of Buddhist, Taoist, and Hindu philosophy for a Western audience. Born in Chislehurst, England, he moved to the United States in 1938 and began Zen training in New York. He received a master's degree in theology from Seabury-Western Theological Seminary and became an Episcopal priest in 1945. He left the ministry in 1950 and moved to California, where he joined the faculty of the American Academy of Asian Studies.  Watts gained a following while working as a volunteer programmer at the KPFA radio station in Berkeley. He wrote more than 25 books and articles on religion and philosophy, introducing the emerging hippie counterculture to "The Way of Zen" (1957), one of the first bestselling books on Buddhism. In "Psychotherapy East and West" (1961), he argued that Buddhism could be thought of as a form of psychotherapy. He considered "Nature, Man and Woman" (1958) to be, "from a literary point of view—the best book I have ever written". He also explored human consciousness and psychedelics in works such as "The New Alchemy" (1958) and "The Joyous Cosmology" (1962).  After Watts's death, his lectures found posthumous popularity through regular broadcasts on public radio, especially in California and New York, and more recently on the internet, on sites and apps such as YouTube and Spotify. The bulk of his recorded audio talks were recorded during the 1960s and early 1970s.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]  Chaotic, part of the Women of the Otherworld series, is a novella written by Kelley Armstrong. It was published in an anthology of supernatural-themed novellas, called "Dates From Hell." This novella takes place between Haunted and Broken in the Women of the Otherworld series.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]  The Patterns of Chaos is a 1972 science fiction novel by British writer Colin Kapp. It originally appeared in If magazine, serialized in three parts. It combines grand space operatic themes of battle between space empires and intergalactic alien invasion with philosophical themes of predestination and destiny, and detailed character development of a tight set of central characters. Earth's Stellar Commando has placed their secret agent Commander Bron on a planet where they hope he will be able to find out the coordinates of a rival space empire, the Destroyers. Bron is there to impersonate a famous scientist of interest to the Destroyers, and has
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]  Together with Kathleen T. Alligood and Tim D. Sauer, he was the author of the book Chaos: An Introduction to Dynamical Systems.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]  Plan for Chaos is a science fiction novel by British writer John Wyndham, first published in 2009. Wyndham was working on it about the same time as The Day of the Triffids, but it was rejected by publishers on both sides of the Atlantic and never published in his lifetime. Wyndham himself abandoned it, telling Frederik Pohl in 1951: "I've messed about with the thing so much that I've lost all perspective". It was eventually re-discovered after the John Wyndham Archive was acquired by the University of Liverpool in the UK and was published on the fortieth anniversary of the author's death, under the planned US title Plan for Chaos; the planned UK title had been Fury of Creation.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]  Initially composed of four contributors from Canada and the USA in 1995, the staff eventually reached a stable set of nine writers in 1997, including the first European contributor. Near the year 2000, the European contingent was expanded by three new writers, with representatives from the Asian and African continents joining shortly after. This led to a core staff of twelve writers in 2002. In this period, founder Filicetti retired from his role as contributor, while co-founder Bromley moved on to form his own print publication, Unrestrained!, with fellow CoC contributor Adam Wasylyk. Meanwhile, various other writers departed or became part-time contributors due to other engagements. Some of Chronicles of Chaos' writing staff became contributors to magazines like Metal Hammer, Terrorizer, Unrestrained! and more. As a result, the e-mail issues became less regular, with as much as three month gaps. Between October 2002 and March 2003 the publication went on an unofficial hiatus for the only time in its history. Until 2003, the Chronicles of Chaos website served only as a static repository of plain text back issues, with the latest digest available for hypertext navigation.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP] Chaos theory  Chaos theory is an interdisciplinary area of scientific study and branch of mathematics focused on underlying patterns and deterministic laws of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions, and were once thought to have completely random states of disorder and irregularities. Chaos theory states that within the apparent randomness of chaotic complex systems, there are underlying patterns, interconnection, constant feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, and self-organization. The butterfly effect, an underlying principle of chaos, describes how a small change in one state of a deterministic nonlinear system can result in large differences in a later state (meaning that there is sensitive dependence on initial conditions). A metaphor for this behavior is that a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil can cause a tornado in Texas.  Small differences in initial conditions, such as those due to errors in measurements or due to rounding errors in numerical computation, can yield widely diverging outcomes for such dynamical systems, rendering long-term prediction of their behavior impossible in general. This can happen even though these systems are deterministic, meaning that their future behavior follows a unique evolution and is fully determined by their initial conditions, with no random elements involved. In other words, the deterministic nature of these systems does not make them predictable. This behavior is known as deterministic chaos, or simply chaos. The theory was summarized by Edward Lorenz as:  Chaotic behavior exists in many natural systems, including fluid flow, heartbeat irregularities, weather, and climate. sociology, environmental science, computer science, engineering, economics, ecology, and pandemic crisis management. The theory formed the basis for such fields of study as complex dynamical systems, edge of chaos theory, and self-assembly processes.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP]
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP] The Chaos  "The Chaos" is a poem demonstrating the irregularity of English spelling and pronunciation. Written by Dutch writer, traveller, and teacher Gerard Nolst Trenité (1870–1946) under the pseudonym of Charivarius, it includes about 800 examples of irregular spelling. The first version of 146 lines of text appeared in an appendix to the author's 1920 textbook "Drop Your Foreign Accent: engelsche uitspraakoefeningen", but "the most complete and authoritative version ever likely to emerge", published by the Spelling Society in 1993–94, has 274 lines.  To demonstrate the theme of the poem, the opening lines are:  Dearest "creature" in "Creation", Studying English pronunciation, and the closing lines are: "Hiccough" has the sound of "cup"... My advice is—give it up!  These lines are set out as in the author's version, with alternate couplets indented and the problematic words italicised.<ref name=spellsoc />
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP] Chaos Monkeys  Chaos Monkeys: Obscene Fortune and Random Failure in Silicon Valley is an autobiography written by American tech entrepreneur Antonio García Martínez. The book compares Silicon Valley to the "chaos monkeys" of society. In the book, the author details his career experiences with launching a tech startup, selling it to Twitter, and working at Facebook from its pre-IPO stage.
Who is the author of Chaotic? [SEP] Chaotic (novella)  Chaotic, part of the Women of the Otherworld series, is a novella written by Kelley Armstrong. It was published in an anthology of supernatural-themed novellas, called "Dates From Hell." This novella takes place between Haunted and Broken in the Women of the Otherworld series.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] The Book of Embraces (1991) by Eduardo Galeano ; Outside the Dog Museum (1992) by Jonathan Carroll ; Coelestis [vt Celestis](1996) by Paul Park
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP]  on Truth and Reconciliation, he used his podium as keynote speaker to discuss his history in the South African military and his campus spy status. In 2000, Behr's second novel, Embrace, was published. Its mixed reviews may reflect enduring anxieties regarding Behr's student political activities. Praised by Felice Picano in the Gay and Lesbian Review Worldwide for its epic quality, universal reach and insistence on complexity it was reviled in The Sunday Times by Tim Trengrove Jones as a "baggy monster of overstated anxiety." Embrace was short-listed for The Sunday Times Award in South Africa and the Encore Award in the United Kingdom. At the end of 2009 Behr published his third novel Kings of the Water. Kate Saunders in The Times
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Works cited
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] In Embrace: Bonfire Of Love Letters (2021, paperback)
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP]  Jessica Shirvington, née Pagent, (born in Sydney on 15 April 1979) is an Australian author known for a book series called either Embrace, for the first book, or The Violet Eden Chapters for the character. Shirvington and her husband, Australian athlete and television presenter Matt Shirvington, live in They have two daughters and a son.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Embrace (novel)  Embrace is a 2001 novel by South African author Mark Behr.  "Embrace" is the story of the sexual awakening of Karl De Man, a 13-year-old pupil at the Berg, an exclusive boys' school in South Africa in the 1970s. Karl's time at school is interwoven with descriptions of his time at home with his loving, but traditional, family.  Karl is punished after joining in casual sexual games in the dormitory, Karl falls in love. He simultaneously has an affair with his best friend, Dominic, whose liberal parents know he is gay, and his choirmaster, Jacques Cilliers.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Embrace of the Serpent  Embrace of the Serpent () is a 2015 Colombian internationally co-produced adventure drama film directed by Ciro Guerra, and written by Guerra and Jacques Toulemonde Vidal. Shot almost entirely in black and white, the film follows two journeys made thirty years apart by the indigenous shaman Karamakate in the Colombian Amazonian jungle, one with Theo, a German ethnographer, and the other with Evan, an American botanist, both of whom are searching for the rare plant "yakruna". It was inspired by the travel diaries of Theodor Koch-Grünberg and Richard Evans Schultes, and dedicated to lost Amazonian cultures.  "Embrace of the Serpent" was premiered on 15 May 2015 during the Directors' Fortnight section at the 2015 Cannes Film Festival, where it won the Art Cinema Award. The film was released in Colombia on 21 May 2015, and worldwide over the course of the following twelve months. It has received universal acclaim from critics, who praised the cinematography and the story's theme, the destruction of the Amazon rainforest and way of life by white colonialism. It has won numerous awards, including the Alfred P. Sloan Prize at the 2016 Sundance Film Festival, the Grand Jury Prize for Best Picture at the 2017 Riviera International Film Festival, and seven awards at the 3rd Platino Awards to recognise the best Ibero-American films of 2015, including the Platino Award for Best Ibero-American Film. In 2016 the film was submitted as Colombia's entry for the category of Best Foreign Language Film at the 88th Academy Awards and was included among the final five nominees, becoming the first Colombian film ever to receive a nomination for an Academy Award.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Moon Embracing the Sun  Moon Embracing the Sun (, also known as The Moon that Embraces the Sun or The Sun and the Moon) is a 2012 South Korean television drama series, starring Kim Soo-hyun, Han Ga-in, Jung Il-woo, and Kim Min-seo. It aired on MBC from January 4 to March 15, 2012, on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 21:55 for 20 episodes.  The historical-fantasy drama is adapted from the novel of the same name written by Jung Eun-gwol. It tells of a poignant love story between a fictional king of the Joseon Dynasty and a female shaman and the conflicts and conspiracy of vying political powers.  The series reached a peak rating of 42.2%. It won the Best Drama and Best Actor awards in the television category at the 48th Baeksang Arts Awards, and multiple awards at 2012 MBC Drama Awards, including Drama of the Year.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Steins;Gate: My Darling's Embrace  Steins;Gate: My Darling's Embrace is a visual novel video game developed by 5pb., originally released for the Xbox 360 in 2011. It has since been ported to several other platforms, and was released by Spike Chunsoft in English for the Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Microsoft Windows in 2019. It is part of the "Science Adventure" series, and a spin-off from the 2009 game "Steins;Gate". The game is a romantic comedy set in a different world from the one in the original "Steins;Gate", where the player builds romantic relationships with "Steins;Gate" characters. By making certain choices and interacting with the player character's cell phone, the player can affect the direction of the plot.  The game was produced by Naotaka Hayashi, and featured scenario supervision by Tatsuya Matsubara, as opposed to the original "Steins;Gate", where 5pb.'s Chiyomaru Shikura planned the story on his own; after having worked on the anime adaptation of "Steins;Gate", he realized that, with the game world being fully established, he could let other writers work on it and bring in new ideas. The Xbox 360 release sold well, helping the sales of the Xbox 360 console in Japan. Critics enjoyed the game's writing and art, but criticized the opening theme.
Who is the author of Embrace? [SEP] Edith Eger  Edith Eva Eger (born September 29, 1927) is a Slovakian-born American psychologist. Born to Hungarian Jewish parents, she is a Holocaust survivor and a specialist in the treatment of post-traumatic stress disorder. Her memoirs entitled "The Choice - Embrace the Possible", published in 2017, became an international bestseller. Her second book, titled "The Gift - 12 Lessons to Save Your Life" was published in September 2020.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]  Marjane Satrapi (born in 1969) is an Iranian-born writer known for her graphic memoir Persepolis (2000) and subsequent film adaptation by the same name in 2007. The graphic novel describes Satrapi’s childhood experiences as a rebellious, punk-rock teenager growing up in Tehran during the Iranian Revolution.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]  Where We Go from Here: Two Years in the Resistance is a book by U.S. Senator from Vermont Bernie Sanders, published by Thomas Dunne Books on November 27, 2018. The book chronicles the senator's actions from June 2016 to August 2018. It also elaborates on Sanders' political ideology. It is one of three books written by Sanders.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]  The Resistance is a children's novel by Gemma Malley, published in 2008. It is a sequel to the book The Declaration, which is set in the year 2140. It is followed by The Legacy, published in 2010.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]  James Baldwin (1924-1987) was an American writer and activist whose body of work includes If Beale Street Could Talk (1974), Sonny’s Blues (1954), and Notes of a Native Son (1954). Through his plays, essays, short stories, and novels, Baldwin remains highly influential as his work often addressed race, sexuality, and morality. Baldwin was active in American movements for civil rights and gay liberation, and his legacy can be traced in contemporary writers and activists.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]  Prior to the events of this novel, the world had become overpopulated due invention of a drug that lets people live forever. A "Declaration" is created which people who take the drug, named Longevity, must sign. By signing they give up the right to have children, though some powerful people are given exceptions. Those who take the drug and still have children are called the "Surplus". The book opens as Peter is pretending to live life as a legal by working for his grandfather, Richard Pincent, at Pincent Pharma. In reality he is attempting to help the underground, coordinating with Pip, the
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP]
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP] Civil Disobedience (Thoreau)  Resistance to Civil Government, also called On the Duty of Civil Disobedience or Civil Disobedience for short, is an essay by American transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau that was first published in 1849. In it, Thoreau argues that individuals should not permit governments to overrule or atrophy their consciences, and that they have a duty to avoid allowing such acquiescence to enable the government to make them the agents of injustice. Thoreau was motivated in part by his disgust with slavery and the Mexican–American War (1846–1848).
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP] Resistance literature  Resistance literature includes but is not limited to fiction, cinema, drama, poetry, visual art, and song, reflecting the many forms of political resistance throughout history. Resistance literature and media actively resist oppression or oppressive systems in a creative manner. Resistance literature is one of the frameworks of art that allows movements to communicate and preserve stories of resistance.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP] French Resistance  The French Resistance () was a collection of organisations that fought the Nazi occupation of France and the collaborationist Vichy régime during the Second World War. Resistance cells were small groups of armed men and women (called the Maquis in rural areas) who, in addition to their guerrilla warfare activities, were also publishers of underground newspapers, providers of first-hand intelligence information, and maintainers of escape networks that helped Allied soldiers and airmen trapped behind enemy lines. The Resistance's men and women came from all economic levels and political leanings of French society, including émigrés, academics, students, aristocrats, conservative Roman Catholics (including priests and nuns), Protestants, Jews, Muslims, liberals, anarchists and communists.  The French Resistance played a significant role in facilitating the Allies' rapid advance through France following the invasion of Normandy on 6 June 1944. Members provided military intelligence on the German defenses known as the Atlantic Wall, and on Wehrmacht deployments and orders of battle for the invasion of Provence on 15 August. The Resistance also planned, coordinated, and executed sabotage acts on the Nazi electrical power grid, transport facilities, and telecommunications networks. The Resistance's work was politically and morally important to France both during the German occupation and decades that followed. The actions of the Resistance stood in marked contrast to the collaborationism of the Vichy régime.  After the Allied landings in Normandy and Provence, the paramilitary components of the Resistance were organized more formally, into a hierarchy of operational units known, collectively, as the French Forces of the Interior (FFI). Estimated at 100,000 fighters in June 1944, the FFI grew rapidly and reached approximately 400,000 by October. Although the amalgamation of the FFI was, in some cases, fraught with political difficulties, it was ultimately successful, and it allowed France to rebuild the fourth-largest army in the European theatre (1.2 million men) by VE Day in May 1945.
Who is the author of Resistance? [SEP] The Melancholy of Resistance  The Melancholy of Resistance () is a 1989 novel by the Hungarian writer László Krasznahorkai. The narrative is set in a restless town where a mysterious circus, which exhibits a whale and nothing else, contributes to an apocalyptic atmosphere. Krasznahorkai adapted the novel into a screenplay for the 2000 film "Werckmeister Harmonies", directed by Béla Tarr.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP]  Hegland's first novel, Into the Forest, was first published as a paperback by the nonprofit press CALYX and later as a hardbound from Bantam Books, which purchased the rights from CALYX. Into the Forest is a coming-of-age story about the relationship between two sisters as the technologically dependent society they were born into disintegrates and they attempt to survive alone in the redwood forest of northern California. Into the Forest was a New York Times Independent Bookstore bestseller, and has been translated into eleven languages. A new French translation was issued by Gallmeister in 2017 to much acclaim. A feature film adaptation of Into the Forest starring Elliot Page and Evan Rachel Wood premiered at the Toronto International Film Festival in 2015. Hegland's second novel, Windfalls (Atria/Simon & Schuster, 2004, Washington Square Press 2005) explores the value of work, art and family ties, as well as the  bond between women and their children. Hegland's most recent novel, Still Time, is about a Shakespearean scholar who falls victim to Alzheimer's and struggles to come to terms with his estranged daughter, using the only tools that remain within his reach—his understanding of and love for Shakespeare's late plays.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP]  Into the Woods is a 2014 American musical fantasy film directed by Rob Marshall, and adapted to the screen by James Lapine from his and Stephen Sondheim's 1986 Broadway musical of the same name. Produced by Walt Disney Pictures, it features an ensemble cast that includes Meryl Streep, Emily Blunt, James Corden, Anna Kendrick, Chris Pine, Tracey Ullman, Christine Baranski, Lilla Crawford, Daniel Huttlestone, MacKenzie Mauzy, Billy Magnussen, and Johnny Depp. Inspired by the Grimm Brothers' fairy tales of "Little Red Riding Hood", "Cinderella", "Jack and the Beanstalk", and "Rapunzel", the film is centered on a childless couple who set out to
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP]  Early attempts of adapting Into the Woods to film occurred in the early 1990s, with a script written by Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel. A reading was held with a cast that included Robin Williams as the Baker, Goldie Hawn as the Baker's Wife, Cher as the Witch, Danny DeVito as the Giant, Steve Martin as the Wolf, and Roseanne as Jack's Mother. By 1991, Columbia Pictures and Jim Henson Productions were also developing a film adaptation with Craig Zadan as producer and Rob Minkoff as director. In 1997, Columbia put the film into turnaround, with Minkoff still attached as director, and Billy Crystal, Meg Ryan, and Susan Sarandon reportedly in talks to star. After the report by Variety, a film adaptation of Into the Woods remained inactive for 15 years.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] 1992, London: Macmillan ISBN: 0-333-58373-6, pub. date 9 October 1992, hardback
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP]  Into the Woods is a musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim, and a book by James Lapine. The musical intertwines the plots of several Brothers Grimm fairy tales, exploring the consequences of the characters' wishes and quests. The main characters are taken from "Little Red Riding Hood" (spelled "ridinghood" in the script), "Jack and the Beanstalk", "Rapunzel", and "Cinderella", as well as several others. The musical is tied together by a story involving a childless baker and his wife and their quest to begin a family (the original beginning of the Grimm Brothers' "Rapunzel"), their interaction with a witch who has placed a curse on them, and their interaction with other storybook characters during their journey. The musical debuted in San Diego
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] Into the Woods  Into the Woods is a 1987 musical with music and lyrics by Stephen Sondheim and book by James Lapine.  The musical intertwines the plots of several Brothers Grimm fairy tales, exploring the consequences of the characters' wishes and quests. The main characters are taken from "Little Red Riding Hood" (spelled "Ridinghood" in the published vocal score), "Jack and the Beanstalk", "Rapunzel", and "Cinderella", as well as several others. The musical is tied together by a story involving a childless baker and his wife and their quest to begin a family (the original beginning of the Grimm Brothers' "Rapunzel"), their interaction with a witch who has placed a curse on them, and their interaction with other storybook characters during their journey.  The musical debuted in San Diego at the Old Globe Theatre in 1986 and premiered on Broadway on November 5, 1987, where it won three major Tony Awards (Best Score, Best Book, and Best Actress in a Musical for Joanna Gleason), in a year dominated by "The Phantom of the Opera" (1988). The musical has since been produced many times, with a 1988 US national tour, a 1990 West End production, a 1997 tenth anniversary concert, a 2002 Broadway revival, a 2010 London revival, and in 2012 as part of New York City's outdoor Shakespeare in the Park series.  A Disney film adaptation, directed by Rob Marshall, was released in 2014. The film grossed over $213 million worldwide, and received three nominations at both the Academy Awards and the Golden Globe Awards.  A second Broadway revival began performances on June 28, 2022 at the St. James Theatre. The same production will start touring the US in February 2023.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] Into the Woods (film)  Into the Woods is a 2014 American musical fantasy film directed by Rob Marshall, and adapted to the screen by James Lapine from his and Stephen Sondheim's 1986 Broadway musical of the same name. Produced by Walt Disney Pictures, it features an ensemble cast that includes Meryl Streep, Emily Blunt, James Corden, Anna Kendrick, Chris Pine, Tracey Ullman, Christine Baranski, Lilla Crawford, Daniel Huttlestone, MacKenzie Mauzy, Billy Magnussen, and Johnny Depp. Inspired by the Grimm Brothers' fairy tales of "Little Red Riding Hood", "Cinderella", "Jack and the Beanstalk", and "Rapunzel", the film is centered on a childless couple who set out to end a curse placed on them by a vengeful witch. Ultimately, the characters are forced to experience the unintended consequences of their actions.  After several unsuccessful attempts by other studios and producers to adapt the musical to film, Disney announced in 2012 that it was producing an adaptation, with Marshall directing and John DeLuca serving as producer. Principal photography commenced in September 2013, and took place entirely in the United Kingdom, including at Shepperton Studios in London.  "Into the Woods" had its world premiere at the Ziegfeld Theatre in New York City on December 8, 2014, and was released theatrically in the United States on December 25, 2014. It was commercially successful and received generally positive reviews, receiving praise for its acting performances (particularly Streep's), visual style, production merits, and musical numbers, and criticism for its lighter tone compared to the source material, and the changes made for the film adaptation. It grossed $213 million worldwide. "Into the Woods" was named one of the top 11 best films of 2014 by the American Film Institute; the film received three Academy Award nominations, including a Best Supporting Actress nomination for Streep, and three Golden Globe Award nominations, including Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] Walden  Walden (; first published in 1854 as Walden; or, Life in the Woods) is a book by American transcendentalist writer Henry David Thoreau. The text is a reflection upon the author's simple living in natural surroundings. The work is part personal declaration of independence, social experiment, voyage of spiritual discovery, satire, and—to some degree—a manual for self-reliance.  "Walden" details Thoreau's experiences over the course of two years, two months, and two days in a cabin he built near Walden Pond amidst woodland owned by his friend and mentor Ralph Waldo Emerson, near Concord, Massachusetts.  Thoreau makes precise scientific observations of nature as well as metaphorical and poetic uses of natural phenomena. He identifies many plants and animals by both their popular and scientific names, records in detail the color and clarity of different bodies of water, precisely dates and describes the freezing and thawing of the pond, and recounts his experiments to measure the depth and shape of the bottom of the supposedly "bottomless" Walden Pond.
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] Into the Woods (disambiguation)  Into the Woods is a musical production written by Stephen Sondheim and James Lapine.  Into the Woods may also refer to:
Who is the author of Into the Woods? [SEP] A Walk in the Woods (book)  A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail is a 1998 travel book by the writer Bill Bryson, chronicling his attempt to thru-hike the Appalachian Trail during the spring and summer of 1996. For much of his journey, Bryson was accompanied by his friend Matt Angerer (pseudonymously called ‘Stephen Katz’ in the book), who had previously appeared in Bryson's 1991 book .  Written in a comic style, the book mixes accounts of Bryson's walk with broader discussions about the Trail's history, and the sociology, ecology, conservation status and people of the places Bryson walked through.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP]  Nancy Pearl (born January 12, 1945) is an American librarian, best-selling author, literary critic and the former Executive Director of the Washington Center for the Book at Seattle Public Library. Her prolific reading and her knowledge of books and literature first made her locally famous in Seattle, Washington, where she regularly appears on public radio recommending books. She achieved broader fame with Book Lust, her 2003 guide to good reading. Pearl was named 2011 Librarian of the Year by Library Journal. She is also the author of a novel and a memoir.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP]  Pearl achieved broader fame with Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment and Reason (2003), her readers' advisory guide to good reading. More Book Lust (2005), with the same subtitle, received much acclaim ("a sprightly follow-up") and was chosen by the Today Show as one of its book-club selections. In March 2007, Pearl released a book of recommendations for children and teens titled Book Crush. Pearl is also the author of George & Lizzie: A Novel and the memoir Girl Discovers Reading, Then Discovers Life.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP]  City of Pearl is a science fiction novel by British writer Karen Traviss. Published in March, 2004, it is the first book of the Wess'Har Series. Among the main characters are Shan Frankland, the hardened cop and forceful commander; Josh Garrod, the devout Christian and gentle leader; Aras, the lonely Wess'har, outcast by his horrible disease; and Lindsay Neville, the Marines Commander dealing with an unplanned pregnancy. City of Pearl is a book that deals with morals, especially concerning environmentalism, and keeps action sequences to a minimum.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP]  In addition to her research and writing on faces, Pearl writes regularly on Judaism, social justice, community life, and religious observance, including essays in Kveller, Lilith Magazine, Tablet Magazine,  The Revealer, and elsewhere.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP]  Pearl was founded by Joan Jobe Smith in 1974. The first issue appeared in May 1974. It was edited by Joan Jobe Smith, Marilyn Johnson, and Barbara Hauk. Pearl was based in Long Beach. It released an annual fiction issue and an annual poetry issue as well as hosting an annual poetry prize. After several issues published Pearl went defunct until 1986 when Joan Jobe Smith and Marilyn Johnson relaunched it. The magazine ceased publication in 2014.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP] Pearl S. Buck  Pearl Sydenstricker Buck (June 26, 1892 – March 6, 1973) was an American writer and novelist. She is best known for "The Good Earth" a bestselling novel in the United States in 1931 and 1932 and won the Pulitzer Prize in 1932. In 1938, Buck won the Nobel Prize in Literature "for her rich and truly epic descriptions of peasant life in China" and for her "masterpieces", two memoir-biographies of her missionary parents. She was the first American woman to win that prize.  Buck was born in West Virginia, but in October 1892, her parents took their 4-month-old baby to China. As the daughter of missionaries and later as a missionary herself, Buck spent most of her life before 1934 in Zhenjiang, with her parents, and in Nanjing, with her first husband. She and her parents spent their summers in a villa in Kuling, Mountain Lu, Jiujiang, and it was during this annual pilgrimage that the young girl decided to become a writer. She graduated from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Virginia, then returned to China. From 1914 to 1932, after marrying John Lossing Buck, she served as a Presbyterian missionary, but she came to doubt the need for foreign missions. Her views became controversial during the Fundamentalist–Modernist controversy, leading to her resignation. After returning to the United States in 1935, she married the publisher Richard J. Walsh and continued writing prolifically. She became an activist and prominent advocate of the rights of women and racial equality, and wrote widely on Chinese and Asian cultures, becoming particularly well known for her efforts on behalf of Asian and mixed-race adoption.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP] The Pearl (novella)  The Pearl is a novella by the American author John Steinbeck. The story, first published in 1947, follows a pearl diver, Kino, and explores man’s purpose as well as greed, defiance of societal norms, and evil. Steinbeck's inspiration was a Mexican folk tale from La Paz, Baja California Sur, Mexico, which he had heard in a visit to the formerly pearl-rich region in 1940.  The book was adapted as a Mexican film named "La Perla" (1947) and as a cult Kannada movie "Ondu Muttina Kathe" (1987). The story is one of Steinbeck's most popular books and has been widely used in middle and high school classes. "The Pearl" is sometimes considered a parable.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP] Pearl (poem)  Pearl () is a late 14th-century Middle English poem that is considered one of the most important surviving Middle English works. With elements of medieval allegory and dream vision genre, the poem is written in a North-West Midlands variety of Middle English and highly—though not consistently—alliterative; there is a complex system of stanza linking and other stylistic features.  A father, mourning the loss of his (pearl), falls asleep in a garden; in his dream, he encounters the 'Pearl-maiden'—a beautiful and heavenly woman—standing across a stream in a strange landscape. In response to his questioning and attempts to obtain her, she answers with Christian doctrine. Eventually she shows him an image of the Heavenly City, and herself as part of the retinue of Christ the Lamb. However, when the Dreamer attempts to cross the stream, he awakens suddenly from his dream and reflects on its significance.  The poem survives in a single manuscript, London, British Library MS Cotton Nero A.x, which includes two other religious narrative poems: "Patience", and "Cleanness", and the romance "Sir Gawain and the Green Knight". All are thought to be by the same author, dubbed the "Pearl poet" or "Gawain poet", on the evidence of stylistic and thematic similarities.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP] To Train Up a Child  To Train Up a Child is a 1994 book written by Michael and Debi Pearl, published through their non-profit organization No Greater Joy ministries. The book gives introspective detail as how to raise up a child in 'love and reverence towards one-another'; and how to 'properly instill discipline and training'.
Who is the author of Pearl? [SEP] Matthew Pearl  Matthew Pearl (born October 2, 1975) is an American novelist and educator. His novels include "The Dante Club", "The Poe Shadow", "The Last Dickens", "The Technologists", and "The Last Bookaneer".
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  A Matter of Time is a 1996 novel by Shashi Deshpande. Unusually in Deshpande's fiction the focus is on the impact of the actions of a male character, Gopal, who leaves his family.
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  Just a Couple of Days is the debut novel by author Tony Vigorito. Initially published by a small press in 2001, it has since achieved significant underground success and won Independent Publisher's Best Visionary Fiction Award. It was re-released by Harcourt / Harvest Books in April 2007, and has since been translated into seven languages. Satirical and philosophical in tone, its tag line is "You are invited to the party at the end of time."
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  "It's Just a Matter of Time" is a popular song written by Brook Benton, Clyde Otis, and Belford Hendricks. The original recording by Benton topped the Billboard Hot R&B Sides chart in 1959 and peaked at No. 3 on the Hot 100 pop chart, the first in a string of hits for Benton that ran through 1970. The song later found a second life as a country song, with major hit recordings by three different country music performers during the 1970s and 1980s, two of which hit number one.
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  "A Matter of Time" is a song co-written and recorded by American country music artist Jason Sellers. It was released in July 1999 as the first single and title track from the album A Matter of Time. The song reached #33 on the Billboard Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart. The song was written by Sellers, Annie Roboff and Craig Wiseman.
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP]  Just a Matter of Time is the fifth album released by the Randy Rogers Band, an American country music group. Their first album for a major label, it includes two songs which as singles charted on the Billboard Hot Country Songs charts: "Kiss Me in the Dark" at number 43 and "One More Goodbye" at number 53. It was produced by Radney Foster. The former Sons of the Desert lead singer Drew Womack co-wrote the track "If Anyone Asks".
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] It's Just a Matter of Time (song)  "It's Just a Matter of Time" is a popular song written by Brook Benton, Clyde Otis, and Belford Hendricks. The original recording by Benton topped the "Billboard" Hot R&B Sides chart in 1959 and peaked at No. 3 on the Hot 100 pop chart, the first in a string of hits for Benton that ran through 1970.  The song later found a second life as a country song, with major hit recordings by three different country music performers during the 1970s and 1980s, two of which hit number one.
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] It's a Matter of Time  "It's a Matter of Time'" is a song written by Clive Westlake and recorded in 1972 by Elvis Presley.  It was recorded by him during the March 27–29, 1972 recording session at the RCA Studios in Nashville.  The song was first released in August 1972 as a B-side to "Burning Love"
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] A Matter of Trust  "A Matter of Trust" is a song by Billy Joel, released in 1986 as the second single from his album "The Bridge".  The song was the second top 10 single from the album, after "Modern Woman". The song gained major traction in the Soviet Union as part of a state-sponsored television promotion of Joel's songs in preparation for his 1987 USSR concerts, recorded on "Kontsert".
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] A Matter of Time (Cook novel)  A Matter of Time is a novel by Glen Cook, combining elements of science fiction (specifically, time travel), crime fiction and spy thriller. In regard to the last, the novel in particular takes up and expands the theme of American prisoners of war being brainwashed in Communist China and their loyalties reversed – a theme made famous through the novel "The Manchurian Candidate" and film made on its basis.  The book was re-published in 2011, along with other earlier works of Glen Cook.
Who is the author of Just a Matter of Time? [SEP] A Matter of Life and Death (film)  A Matter of Life and Death is a 1946 British fantasy-romance film set in England during World War II.  Written, produced and directed by Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger, the film stars David Niven, Roger Livesey, Raymond Massey, Kim Hunter and Marius Goring. The film was originally released in the United States under the title Stairway to Heaven, which derived from the film's most prominent special effect: a broad escalator linking Earth to the afterlife.  In 1999, "A Matter of Life and Death" placed 20th on the British Film Institute's list of Best 100 British films. It ranked 90th in The Sight and Sound Greatest Films of All Time 2012 poll, regarded by some as the most authoritative in the world, and 78th in 2022.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP]  Fruits: A Caribbean Counting Poem (ISBN: 0805051716) is a children's picture book written by Valerie Bloom and illustrated by David Axtell. In 1997 it won the Nestlé Smarties Book Prize Bronze Award.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP]  Brian Francis (born 1971) is a Canadian writer. His 2004 novel Fruit was selected for inclusion in the 2009 edition of Canada Reads, where it was championed by novelist and CBC Radio One personality Jen Sookfong Lee. It finished the competition as the runner-up, making the last vote against the eventual winner, Lawrence Hill's The Book of Negroes. Published in Canada by ECW Press and released on May 4, 2004, Fruit is the story of Peter Paddington, a teenager living in Sarnia. Overweight, gay and a social outsider, Paddington regularly retreats into an active fantasy life which includes his own nipples talking to him, and the
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP]  Summer Fruit is a 1929 omnibus volume by the English author Dornford Yates (Cecil William Mercer) containing the two novels Anthony Lyveden (1921) and Valerie French (1923). It was published by Minton, Balch & Company of New York. No similar omnibus volume was published in the UK.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP]  On June 1, 1963, Alfred Chester of The New York Review of Books gave an extremely unfavorable review of gay author John Rechy's first novel City Of Night under the disparaging title "Fruit Salad" including speculation that Rechy was a pseudonym. The story is of a male hustler seeking love while working the streets of New York City, Los Angeles, and New Orleans. It was later revealed that the book was at least partly autobiographical. The protagonist has sex with "men for money but with women to prove his masculinity intact" with the book exploring seedy gay sex and those who deal with the criminal aspects of it. Over three decades later Rechy complained noting "I'm no longer young, I understand the attack, and I protest the abuse and its recent extension" referring to the reprint of the review in a 1988 collection of
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP]  Dortort published two books, Burial of the Fruit in 1947 and The Post of Honor in 1949.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP] Natsuki Takaya  Takaya was born and raised in Tokyo, where she made her debut as a manga artist in 1992. Takaya is left handed and had wanted to be a manga artist since first grade, when her sister started drawing.  Her manga series "Fruits Basket", which debuted in 1998, became one of the best selling manga in North America. "Fruits Basket" has also been adapted into an anime series twice; the first, which premiered in 2001, aired as one season of twenty six episodes. The second, which premiered in 2019, consists of two seasons of twenty five episodes and the third season comprised 13 episodes and concluded in 2021.  In 2001, Takaya received the Kodansha Manga Award for manga for "Fruits Basket". As revealed in a sidebar of "Fruits Basket", Takaya broke her drawing arm (her left arm) after "Fruits Basket" volume six was published. She had to go into surgery, and as a result, had put "Fruits Basket" on a brief hiatus. Takaya made a full recovery, but complained that her handwriting had gotten uglier due to the surgery.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP] Strange Fruit  "Strange Fruit" is a song written and composed by Abel Meeropol (under his pseudonym Lewis Allan) and recorded by Billie Holiday in 1939. The lyrics were drawn from a poem by Meeropol published in 1937. The song protests the lynching of Black Americans with lyrics that compare the victims to the fruit of trees. Such lynchings had reached a peak in the Southern United States at the turn of the 20th century and the great majority of victims were black. The song has been called "a declaration" and "the beginning of the civil rights movement".  Meeropol set his lyrics to music with his wife and the singer Laura Duncan and performed it as a protest song in New York City venues in the late 1930s, including Madison Square Garden. Holiday's version was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1978. It was also included in the "Songs of the Century" list of the Recording Industry of America and the National Endowment for the Arts.  In 2002, "Strange Fruit" was selected for preservation in the National Recording Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically or aesthetically significant".
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP] Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit  Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit is a novel by Jeanette Winterson published in 1985 by Pandora Press. It is a coming-of-age story about a lesbian girl who grows up in an English Pentecostal community. Key themes of the book include transition from youth to adulthood, complex family relationships, same-sex relationships, organised religion and the concept of faith.  It has been included on both GCSE and A-Level reading lists for education in England and Wales, and was adapted by Winterson into a BAFTA-winning 1990 BBC television drama serial of the same name.
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP] The Fruit of Evolution
Who is the author of Fruits? [SEP] Strange Fruit (novel)  Strange Fruit is a 1944 bestselling debut novel by American author Lillian Smith that deals with the then-forbidden and controversial theme of interracial romance. Its working title was "Jordan is so Chilly", but Smith retitle it "Strange Fruit" prior to publication. In her 1956 autobiography, singer Billie Holiday wrote that Smith named the book after her 1939 song "Strange Fruit", which was about lynching and racism against African Americans. Smith maintained the book's title referred to the "damaged, twisted people (both black and white) who are the products or results of our racist culture."  After the book's release, it was banned in Boston and Detroit for "lewdness" and crude language. "Strange Fruit" was also banned from being mailed through the U.S. Postal Service until President Franklin D. Roosevelt interceded at his wife Eleanor's request.
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP]  Shift is a 2010 alternative history book by Tim Kring and Dale Peck and is the first book in the Gates of Orpheus trilogy, originally titled as the Flag of Orpheus trilogy. The book was released on August 10, 2010 in the United States by Crown Publishing and centers around a series of secretive government experiments with LSD and its repercussions. Kring has stated that he first began work on the novel after the 2007–2008 Writers Guild of America strike and intended to make use of multiple forms of media to promote the novel and further its storyline.
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] Great Shift: The Co-Creating a New World for 2012 and Beyond (with Tom Kenyon, Patricia Cori, and Martine Vallée) (2009) Weiser Books. ISBN: 978-1-57863-457-6
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP]  Critical reception for Shift has been mixed with Booklist praising the book while Publishers Weekly panned it. The A.V. Club gave the book a C-, calling it a "bumpy ride".
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP]  Houle started his writing career in 2006 by launching his futurist blog "evolutionshift.com" with the tag line A Future Look at Today. In late 2007, his first book The Shift Age was published; according to WorldCat, it is now in 71 libraries. In February 2010, he became a featured contributor on Oprah.com. He also has articles featured on Shelly Palmer's website. Houle's second book, co-authored with Jeff Cobb, titled Shift Ed: A Call to Action for Transforming K-12, was published in March 2011 and is in 123 libraries. His third book, co-authored with Jonathan Fleece, The New Health Age: The Future of Health Care in America, was published in December 2011. Houle's Entering the Shift Age was published by Sourcebooks in 2012. His latest books include Is Privacy Dead: The Future of Privacy in the Digital Age and Brand Shift: The Future of Brands and Marketing which were published in 2013 and 2014, respectively.
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] Brand Shift was named one of the top five marketing books published in the world in 2014 by M&SB (see Marketwatch Article) ; Houle was profiled in the coffee table book Connected Worlds published by BTGroup PLC 2014 ISBN: 9780993019609
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] Paradigm shift  A paradigm shift, a concept brought into the common lexicon by the American physicist and philosopher Thomas Kuhn, is a fundamental change in the basic concepts and experimental practices of a . Even though Kuhn restricted the use of the term to the natural sciences, the concept of a paradigm shift has also been used in numerous non-scientific contexts to describe a profound change in a fundamental model or perception of events.  Kuhn presented his notion of a paradigm shift in his influential book "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" (1962).  Kuhn contrasts paradigm shifts, which characterize a Scientific Revolution, to the activity of normal science, which he describes as scientific work done within a prevailing framework or paradigm. Paradigm shifts arise when the dominant paradigm under which normal science operates is rendered incompatible with new phenomena, facilitating the adoption of a new theory or paradigm.  As one commentator summarizes:
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] The Structure of Scientific Revolutions  The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (1962; second edition 1970; third edition 1996; fourth edition 2012) is a book about the history of science by philosopher Thomas S. Kuhn. Its publication was a landmark event in the history, philosophy, and sociology of science. Kuhn challenged the then prevailing view of progress in science in which scientific progress was viewed as "development-by-accumulation" of accepted facts and theories. Kuhn argued for an episodic model in which periods of conceptual continuity where there is cumulative progress, which Kuhn referred to as periods of "normal science", were interrupted by periods of revolutionary science. The discovery of "anomalies" during revolutions in science leads to new paradigms. New paradigms then ask new questions of old data, move beyond the mere "puzzle-solving" of the previous paradigm, change the rules of the game and the "map" directing new research.  For example, Kuhn's analysis of the Copernican Revolution emphasized that, in its beginning, it did not offer more accurate predictions of celestial events, such as planetary positions, than the Ptolemaic system, but instead appealed to some practitioners based on a promise of better, simpler solutions that might be developed at some point in the future. Kuhn called the core concepts of an ascendant revolution its "paradigms" and thereby launched this word into widespread analogical use in the second half of the 20th century. Kuhn's insistence that a paradigm shift was a mélange of sociology, enthusiasm and scientific promise, but not a logically determinate procedure, caused an uproar in reaction to his work. Kuhn addressed concerns in the 1969 postscript to the second edition. For some commentators "The Structure of Scientific Revolutions" introduced a realistic humanism into the core of science, while for others the nobility of science was tarnished by Kuhn's introduction of an irrational element into the heart of its greatest achievements.
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] Silo (series)  Silo is a series of post-apocalyptic science fiction books by American writer Hugh Howey. The series started in 2011 with the short story "Wool", which was later published together with four sequel novellas as a novel with the same name. Along with "Wool", the series consists of "Shift", "Dust", three short stories and "Wool: The Graphic Novel".
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] The Late Shift (book)  The Late Shift: Letterman, Leno, and the Network Battle for the Night is a 1994 non-fiction book written by "The New York Times" media reporter Bill Carter. It chronicles the early 1990s conflict surrounding the American late-night talk show "The Tonight Show". The book was later made into a film of the same name by HBO.
Who is the author of Shift? [SEP] The Second Shift  The Second Shift: Working Parents and the Revolution at Home is a book by Arlie Russell Hochschild with Anne Machung, first published in 1989. It was reissued in 2012 with updated data. In the text, Hochschild investigates and portrays the double burden experienced by late-20th-century employed mothers.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP]  their Federation says. Take Jerome Davis, who apologizes for Russia every day and has backed many organizations which have been named as Communist fronts. His book Behind Soviet Power is one of the most outspoken apologies for Russia yet published. It was sent free of charge to more than 23,000 Methodist clergymen. With it went a letter stating that it was a gift from the Methodist Federation and adding that every clergyman must read it. There are some queer things in that book, as odd as some statements that Davis made when he spoke to the National Convention of the Methodists. Read them and wonder! Soviet concentration
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP]  Star Trek: The Worlds of the Federation is a 1989 Star Trek reference manual written and illustrated by Lora Johnson, known at the time as Shane Johnson. The book is a manual of the worlds of the United Federation of Planets and their respective inhabitants and covers not only the stories from the original Star Trek but also from Star Trek: The Next Generation and Star Trek: The Animated Series.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP]  Star Trek: Federation: The First 150 Years (2012) is a limited edition fictional reference written by David A. Goodman. Editions from 47North and becker&mayer! included an audio introduction by George Takei, and a custom display case. Titan Books published a reprint in 2013 which included some formatting and text changes.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] Director: Ian Munro ; Producer: Anna Grieve ; Writer: Sue Castrique ; Editor: Stewart Young ; Narrator: John Doyle ; Director of Photography: Kim Batterham ; Composer: Martin Friedel ; Archival Researcher: Jeannine Baker ; Historical Consultant: Helen Irving ; Voices (part 1 - The Land): Leo McKern, Kirk Alexander, Peter Browne, Leslie Dayman, Gary Files, Cornelia Frances, Chris Haywood, Geoff Kelso, Deborah Kennedy, Shane McNamara, Peter O'Brien, Kelton Pell, Duncan Piney, Ken Radley, Doug Scroope, Rob Steele, Alan Tobin, William Zappa. ; Commentary (part 1): Greg Craven, John Bannon, Helen Irving (political historian), John Hirst, Mick Dodson, Ann Curthoys, Peter Love (labour historian), plus an Echuca local historian, a grandson of Fred T. Derham and granddaughters of Henry Parkes and Alfred Deakin (Judith Harley), ; Voices (part 2 - The People): Leo McKern, Mary Acres, Kirk Alexander, Peter Browne, Brad Byquar, Max Cullen, Leslie Dayman, Gary Files,
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP]  Federation and Empire itself was originally published in 1986 by Task Force Games (TFG). The rulebook has been revised five times since then. All editions come with 'fleet charts' (sheets of off-map holding areas for excess counters), 'capital charts' (to detail the contents of the capital systems of the various empires), and the main map. The original set included 10 numbered sheets of double-sided counters for ships as well as two sheets of single-sided counters for markers and the like. TFG's first strategic level game for the Star Fleet Universe was Federation Space, released in 1981. It was derived from the current working draft of what became Federation and
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] Federation (novel)  Federation (1994) is a science fiction novel written by Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens. It is a tie-together chronicle that brings the original "Enterprise" adventures of James T. Kirk close to an encounter with the "Enterprise-D" adventures of Jean-Luc Picard.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] Copyright law of the Russian Federation  The current Copyright law of the Russian Federation is codified in part IV of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation. It entered in force on January 1, 2008.  The first post-Soviet copyright law of the Russian Federation became effective on August 3, 1993. It completely replaced the older Soviet legislation that had been in effect until then. The new Copyright law of 1993 was based upon WIPO model laws and followed the continental European tradition: it clearly separated economic and moral rights, and it included detailed provisions for neighbouring rights.  The Copyright law of 1993 had specified a general duration of copyrights of 50 years beyond an author's death, or 50 years since the publication of an anonymous work. The implementation act for the law made the new law apply retroactively, restoring copyrights (and neighbouring rights) on works on which the shorter copyright terms from the Soviet-era had already expired or which had not been copyrighted at all under Soviet law. In 2004, this copyright term was extended to 70 years for all works still copyrighted.  In 2006, completely rewritten intellectual property laws were included in part IV of a new Civil Code of the Russian Federation. These new laws entered into force on January 1, 2008, replacing all previous intellectual property legislation, including the separate copyright law from 1993. The copyright term has been extended to 70 years for works published by Russian authors and copyright protection has been retroactively granted to works which had their 50-year protection term expire in 1993–2003, bringing many notable works out of public domain. For works that have been created or published in other countries, the law now implements the rule of the shorter term, matching Russian copyright term with those existing in the country of origin.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] The Federalist Papers  The Federalist Papers is a collection of 85 articles and essays written by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay under the collective pseudonym "Publius" to promote the ratification of the Constitution of the United States. The collection was commonly known as The Federalist until the name "The Federalist Papers" emerged in the 20th century.  The first 77 of these essays were published serially in the "Independent Journal", the "New York Packet", and "The Daily Advertiser" between October 1787 and April 1788. The last eight papers (Nos. 78–85) were republished in the New York newspapers between June 14 and August 16, 1788.  The authors of "The Federalist" intended to influence the voters to ratify the Constitution. In Federalist No. 1, they explicitly set that debate in broad political terms:It has been frequently remarked, that it seems to have been reserved to the people of this country, by their conduct and example, to decide the important question, whether societies of men are really capable or not, of establishing good government from reflection and choice, or whether they are forever destined to depend, for their political constitutions, on accident and force.  In Federalist No. 10, Madison discusses the means of preventing rule by majority faction and advocates a large, commercial republic. This is complemented by Federalist No. 14, in which Madison takes the measure of the United States, declares it appropriate for an extended republic, and concludes with a memorable defense of the constitutional and political creativity of the Federal Convention.   In Federalist No. 84, Hamilton makes the case that there is no need to amend the Constitution by adding a Bill of Rights, insisting that the various provisions in the proposed Constitution protecting liberty amount to a "bill of rights." Federalist No. 78, also written by Hamilton, lays the groundwork for the doctrine of judicial review by federal courts of federal legislation or executive acts. Federalist No. 70 presents Hamilton's case for a one-man chief executive. In Federalist No. 39, Madison presents the clearest exposition of what has come to be called "Federalism". In Federalist No. 51, Madison distills arguments for checks and balances in an essay often quoted for its justification of government as "the greatest of all reflections on human nature." According to historian Richard B. Morris, the essays that make up "The Federalist Papers" are an "incomparable exposition of the Constitution, a classic in political science unsurpassed in both breadth and depth by the product of any later American writer."  On June 21, 1788, the proposed Constitution was ratified by the minimum of nine states required under Article VII. Towards the end of July 1788, with eleven states having ratified the new Constitution, the process of organizing the new government began.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] Federal Farmer  The Federal Farmer was the pseudonym used by an Anti-Federalist who wrote a methodical assessment of the proposed United States Constitution that was among the more important documents of the ratification debate. The assessment appeared in the form of two pamphlets, the first published in November 1787 and the second in December 1787.   The letters, which were addressed to "The Republican," were signed only with the pseudonym "the Federal Farmer." The identity of the author is unknown. Scholars have suggested Richard Henry Lee and Melancton Smith as possibilities, though recent evidence suggests Smith is the most likely author. "The Republican" was most likely New York state governor George Clinton.  The Federal Farmer made typical Anti-Federalist arguments, claiming that the Constitution would tear down the sovereign states in favor of a consolidated government, and that this end of the federal system would be destructive of American liberties. The letters were praised at the time for their thoughtfulness, composition, and persuasiveness, and today are among the most widely read works in the Anti-Federalist canon.
Who is the author of Federation? [SEP] Constitution of the United States  The Constitution of the United States is the supreme law of the United States of America. It superseded the Articles of Confederation, the nation's first constitution, in 1789. Originally comprising seven articles, it delineates the national frame of government. Its first three articles embody the doctrine of the separation of powers, whereby the federal government is divided into three branches: the legislative, consisting of the bicameral Congress (Article I); the executive, consisting of the president and subordinate officers (Article II); and the judicial, consisting of the Supreme Court and other federal courts (Article III). Article IV, Article V, and Article VI embody concepts of federalism, describing the rights and responsibilities of state governments, the states in relationship to the federal government, and the shared process of constitutional amendment. Article VII establishes the procedure subsequently used by the 13 states to ratify it. It is regarded as the oldest written and codified national constitution in force.  Since the constitution came into force in 1789, it has been amended 27 times, including one amendment that repealed a previous one, in order to meet the needs of a nation that has profoundly changed since the 18th century. In general, the first ten amendments, known collectively as the Bill of Rights, offer specific protections of individual liberty and justice and place restrictions on the powers of government within the U.S. states. The majority of the 17 later amendments expand individual civil rights protections. Others address issues related to federal authority or modify government processes and procedures. Amendments to the United States Constitution, unlike ones made to many constitutions worldwide, are appended to the document. The original U.S. Constitution was written on five pages of parchment.  According to the United States Senate: "The Constitution's first three words—"We the People"—affirm that the government of the United States exists to serve its citizens. For over two centuries the Constitution has remained in force because its framers wisely separated and balanced governmental powers to safeguard the interests of majority rule and minority rights, of liberty and equality, and of the federal and state governments."<ref name=senategov/> The first permanent constitution, it is interpreted, supplemented, and implemented by a large body of federal constitutional law, and has influenced the constitutions of other nations.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP]  Therapy is a psychological thriller and the debut novel by novelist Sebastian Fitzek published in 2006. The novel has already sold eight million copies worldwide. In addition, the novel held the number one spot on the German magazine Spiegel's bestseller list for several weeks.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP]  Therapy (1995) is a novel by British author David Lodge. The story concerns a successful sitcom writer, Laurence Passmore, plagued by middle-age neuroses and a failed marriage. His only problem seems to be an "internal derangement of the knee" but a mid-life crisis has struck and he is discovering angst. His familiar doses of cognitive therapy, aromatherapy, and acupuncture all offer no help, and he becomes obsessed with the philosophy of Kierkegaard. Moreover, Tubby, as Passmore is nicknamed, and referred to by several characters in the novel, undertakes a pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela in order to find his first love.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP]  According to his own statements, Fitzek got the idea for the plot of his novel while staying in the waiting room of a doctor's office His girlfriend did not appear from the consulting room even after half an hour and Fitzek asked himself the question what would happen if she did not appear at all and the doctor, as well as the consulting room assistants and the other patients claimed that she had not been here at all. After one year of brainstorming, this core question became the exposé for the story. The characters of his stories have a defined psyche, origin and past from the outset, but not yet a finished biography, which only takes shape as the story progresses. The first draft was edited seven times before it was sent to the editorial office.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP]  Brian Lester Bohrer (born August 15, 1960) is a pastor and author. He is best known for his book called, “Word Therapy” a teaching on the creative power of your words.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] 1983. Aesthetics of Change. New York: The Guilford Press. ; 1983. Diagnosis and Assessment in Family Therapy (Editor). Rockville, Maryland: Aspen Systems. ; 1985. Mind in Therapy: Constructing Systemic Family Therapies. With J. Ross. New York: Basic Books. ; 1986. The Therapeutic Voice of Olga Silverstein. With O. Silverstein. New York: The Guilford Press. ; 1987. Constructing Therapeutic Realities. Dortmund, Germany: Verlag fur Modernes Lernen. ; 1988. Kultur und Spiel, With Gregory Bateson. Suhrkamp, Ffm. ; 1990. The Systemic Therapist, Volume I (Editor), St. Paul: Systemic Therapy Press. ; 1990. The Systemic Therapist, Volume II (Editor), St. Paul: Systemic Therapy Press. ; 1991. Improvisational Therapy: A Practical Guide for Creative Clinical Strategies, New York: The Guilford Press. ; 1993. Resource Focused Therapy. With W. Ray.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] Virginia Satir  Virginia Satir (26 June 1916 – 10 September 1988) was an American author and psychotherapist, recognized for her approach to family therapy. Her pioneering work in the field of family reconstruction therapy honored her with the title Her most well-known books are "Conjoint Family Therapy", 1964, "Peoplemaking", 1972, and "The New Peoplemaking", 1988.  She is also known for creating the Virginia Satir Change Process Model, a psychological model developed through clinical studies. Change management and organizational gurus of the 1990s and 2000s embrace this model to define how change impacts organizations.<ref>The Satir Model: Yesterday and Today, Contemporary Family Therapy Volume 24, Number 1, 7–22</ref>
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] Narrative therapy  Narrative therapy (or Narrative Practice) is a form of psychotherapy that seeks to help patients identify their values and the skills associated with them. It provides the patient with knowledge of their ability to live these values so they can effectively confront current and future problems. The therapist seeks to help the patient co-author a new narrative about themselves by investigating the history of those values. Narrative therapy claims to be a social justice approach to therapeutic conversations, seeking to challenge dominant discourses that it claims shape people's lives in destructive ways. While narrative work is typically located within the field of family therapy, many authors and practitioners report using these ideas and practices in community work, schools and higher education. Narrative therapy has come to be associated with collaborative as well as person-centered therapy.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] Music therapy  Music therapy, an allied health profession, "is the clinical and evidence-based use of music interventions to accomplish individualized goals within a therapeutic relationship by a credentialed professional who has completed an approved music therapy program."<ref name="About Music Therapy & AMTA" />  Music therapy is a broad field. Music therapists use music-based experiences to address client needs in one or more domains of human functioning: cognitive, academic, emotional/psychological; behavioral; communication; social; physiological (sensory, motor, pain, neurological and other physical systems), spiritual, aesthetics. Music experiences are strategically designed to utilize the elements of music for therapeutic effects, including melody, harmony, key, mode, meter, rhythm, pitch/range, duration, timbre, form, texture, and instrumentation.  Some common music therapy practices include developmental work (communication, motor skills, etc.) with individuals with special needs, songwriting and listening in reminiscence, orientation work with the elderly, processing and relaxation work, and rhythmic entrainment for physical rehabilitation in stroke survivors. Music therapy is used in medical hospitals, cancer centers, schools, alcohol and drug recovery programs, psychiatric hospitals, nursing homes, and correctional facilities.  There is a broad qualitative and quantitative research literature base for music therapy.<ref name="About Music Therapy & AMTA" /> Music therapy is distinctive from Musopathy, which relies on a more generic and non-cultural approach based on neural, physical, and other responses to the fundamental aspects of sound.   Evidence suggests that music therapy is beneficial for all individuals, both physically and mentally. Benefits of music therapy include improved heart rate, reduced anxiety, stimulation of the brain, and improved learning. Music therapists use their techniques to help their patients in many areas, ranging from stress relief before and after surgeries to neuropathologies such as Alzheimer's disease. One study found that children who listened to music while having an IV inserted into their arms showed less distress and felt less pain than the children who did not listen to music while having an IV inserted. Studies on patients diagnosed with mental health disorders such as anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia have shown a visible improvement in their mental health after music therapy. The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) have claimed that music therapy is an effective method in helping individuals experiencing mental health issues, and more should be done to offer those in need this type of help.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] Therapy (Lodge novel)  Therapy (1995) is a novel by British author David Lodge.  The story concerns a successful sitcom writer, Laurence Passmore, plagued by middle-age neuroses and a failed marriage. His only problem seems to be an "internal derangement of the knee" but a mid-life crisis has struck and he is discovering angst. His familiar doses of cognitive therapy, aromatherapy, and acupuncture all offer no help, and he becomes obsessed with the philosophy of Kierkegaard. Moreover, Tubby, as Passmore is nicknamed, and referred to by several characters in the novel, undertakes a pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela in order to find his first love.
Who is the author of Therapy? [SEP] David D. Burns  David D. Burns (born September 19, 1942) is an American psychiatrist and adjunct professor emeritus in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences at the Stanford University School of Medicine and the author of bestselling books such as "", "The Feeling Good Handbook" and "Feeling Great: The Revolutionary New Treatment for Depression and Anxiety". Burns popularized Albert Ellis's and Aaron T. Beck's cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) when his books became bestsellers during the 1980s. In a January 2021 interview, Burns attributed his rise in popularity and much of his success to an appearance in 1988 on the well-known television talk show The Phil Donahue Show, to which he was invited by the producer after helping her teenage son with depression.
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP]  Gowie Corby Plays Chicken (ISBN: 9780571114054) is a children's novel by Gene Kemp, set at the fictional Cricklepit Combined primary school in southern England. It was published in 1979.
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP]  The central character is Gowie Corby, a young boy with an absent father, an alcoholic mother and an obsession with horror films. He is highly intelligent but shows little interest in school and exhibits a range of anti-social behaviour. His life changes when an African-American girl, Rosie Lee, comes to live next door and provides him with a positive role-model. He begins to take interest in school and his behaviour improves with the encouragement of a sympathetic teacher. His progress is threatened however, by the intervention of his older brother, who has a record of petty crime and displays racist attitudes towards Rosie and her family. The main plot is framed by two short chapters which present Gowie as an adult with a young family, the latter chapter providing a twist ending.
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP]  Beef, No Chicken is a two-act play by Caribbean playwright Derek Walcott, written in 1981. The play is set in the Trinidadian town of Couva. It follows restaurant owner Otto Hogan, whose refusal to accept graft delays the building of a highway through the center of the town.
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP]  The film was based on a novel by Paul Diamond, the 23-year-old son of screenwriter I.A.L. Diamond. "It's a very funny very dirty book," said Diamond senior. Film rights were sold to Paramount before publication. A screenplay was done by Ned Wynn in 1975 with Paul Monash the producer. The film was not made. However two years later Paul Diamond was working on a script for Avco Embassy. It was the first lead role for Steve Guttenberg. "Some actors get embarrassed about their early work," Guttenberg said, "but we all don't start out as 'artistes.' Nobody is going to confuse "Chicken" with 'Citizen Kane' but I learned a lot. They took a chance with me. I didn't get rich on it but it was a start."
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] The Lazy Ones (author Albert Cossery) (1952)
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] Gene Kemp  Gene Kemp née Rushton (27 December 1926 – 4 January 2015) was an English author known for children's books. Her first, "The Pride of Tamworth Pig", appeared in 1972. She won the British Carnegie Medal for her school novel "The Turbulent Term of Tyke Tiler" (1977).<ref name=medal1977/>
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] The Turbulent Term of Tyke Tiler  The Turbulent Term of Tyke Tiler (or Tyke Tiler) is a children's school adventure novel by Gene Kemp, first published by Faber and Faber in 1977 with illustrations by Carolyn Dinan. It is set at Cricklepit Combined School, a fictional primary school based on St Sidwell's School in Exeter where Kemp worked as a teacher from 1963 to 1979. The book inaugurated a series of further stories by Kemp set at the same school. "Tyke Tiler" follows the final term of Tyke, an adventurous twelve-year-old, at Cricklepit Combined School. After Tyke's best friend Danny gets into various scrapes, Tyke has to protect and stick up for him despite Danny being misunderstood by teachers and other students.   The book depicts themes which include attitudes towards disability and gender. Throughout the book, Tyke's gender is not explicitly revealed, although the character's attitudes and actions often lead readers to believe that Tyke is a boy. The story ends with the revelation that Tyke is actually a girl. "Tyke Tiler" was praised by critics and was the recipient of the Carnegie Medal for children's literature in 1977.
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] two bandits in their later enterprise. Similarly, themes essential to the play: prejudice on the basis of language, largely coming from Franco, and racial prejudice, largely directed against Lai Fook, are introduced but rapidly discarded. Beef, No Chicken Beef, No Chicken is a two-act play by Caribbean playwright Derek Walcott, written in 1981. The play is set in the Trinidadian town of Couva. It follows restaurant owner Otto Hogan, whose refusal to accept graft delays the building of a highway through the center of the town. "Beef, No Chicken" opens as Otto rushes into his roti restaurant, removing a dress
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] The Spring Chicken The Spring Chicken is an English musical comedy adapted by George Grossmith, Jr. from "Coquin de Printemps" (1897) by Jaime and Duval, with music by Ivan Caryll and Lionel Monckton and lyrics by Adrian Ross, Percy Greenbank and Grossmith, produced by George Edwardes at the Gaiety Theatre, opening on 30 May 1905. It ran for a very successful 401 performances. The London production starred Grossmith, Harry Grattan, and Gertie Millar, with Henry Lytton later joining the cast. "The Spring Chicken" had a Broadway run in 1906 and toured in Britain and America. ACT I - Office of
Who is the author of Gowie Corby Plays Chicken? [SEP] Jim Broadbent. They also contributed to the screenplay of the Aardman film "Chicken Run". It was announced in April 2018 that John O'Farrell was co-writing a sequel to Chicken Run. O’Farrell co-wrote the book for the original stage musical "Something Rotten!", which opened on Broadway in April 2015, and for which he was nominated for a Tony Award for Best Book of a Musical with Karey Kirkpatrick as well as a Drama Desk Award and an Outer Circle Critics Award. The show ran for nearly two years on Broadway before going on tour across the United States. It was announced
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]  Opus is a 2006 play written by Michael Hollinger.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]  Opus 100 is a collection by American writer and scientist Isaac Asimov. It was published by Houghton Mifflin on 16 October 1969. Asimov chose to celebrate the publication of his hundredth book by writing about his previous 99 books, including excerpts from short stories and novels, as well as nonfiction articles and books. Opus 100 also includes five complete science fiction stories and one complete science essay.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]  Opus was an American magazine that featured critical reviews of classical music recordings. Based in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, the magazine ran from November/December 1984 to March/April 1988, publishing 21 issues. James R. Oestreich was its editor-in-chief. Historical Times, Inc., of Harrisburg was its owner. Warren Bertram Syer (1923–2007), who had published High Fidelity for 30 years, was then the president of Historical Times.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]  Opus is a Japanese seinen manga series written and illustrated by Satoshi Kon. The story is about a manga artist who is pulled into the world of the manga he is concluding and forced to confront his characters. The manga was serialized in the manga magazine Comic Guys from October 1995 until the magazine's cancellation in June 1996. It was collected into two volumes by Tokuma Shoten on December 13, 2010 and included a missing ending found after Kon's death. Dark Horse Comics licensed the manga in North America and released it in an omnibus edition on December 9, 2014. The French edition of the manga won the 2013 Asia Critics Prize from the Association des Critiques et des journalistes de Bande Dessinée and was nominated for the Sélection Officiele at the 2014 Angoulême International Comics Festival. Opus was Kon's final manga before he debuted in the anime industry with Perfect Blue.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]  The play made its New York debut at the 59E59 Theaters as part of the Primary Stages season on October 7, 2007, with David Beach, Mahira Kakkar, Michael Laurence, Douglas Rees and Richard Topol. It was adapted as a radio drama performed in May 2012 by L.A. Theatre Works with Kevin Chamberlin, Jere Burns, Steven Culp and Liza Weil, which was released in September 2012.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP]
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP] Opus (comic strip)  Opus was a Sunday strip drawn by Berkeley Breathed from November 23, 2003, to November 2, 2008. It was Breathed's fourth comic strip, following "The Academia Waltz", "Bloom County" and "Outland".  Set in Bloom County, the satirical strip featured Breathed's character Opus the Penguin It was launched on November 23, 2003, and was syndicated by The Washington Post Writers Group. In early October 2008 the author declared he was terminating the strip because of his expectation that the United States is going to face tough times and his desire to depart from his most famous character "on a lighter note".
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP] Masterpiece  A masterpiece, magnum opus, or chef-d’œuvre (; ; ) in modern use is a creation that has been given much critical praise, especially one that is considered the greatest work of a person's career or a work of outstanding creativity, skill, profundity, or workmanship.  Historically, a "masterpiece" was a work of a very high standard produced to obtain membership of a guild or academy in various areas of the visual arts and crafts. Section::::Etymology. The form "masterstik" is recorded in English or Scots in a set of Aberdeen guild regulations dated to 1579, whereas "masterpiece" is first found in 1605, already outside a guild context, in a Ben Jonson play. "Masterprize" was another early variant in English.  In English, the term rapidly became used in a variety of contexts for an exceptionally good piece of creative work, and was "in early use, often applied to man as the 'masterpiece' of God or Nature".
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP] Directory Opus  Directory Opus (or "DOpus" as its users tend to call it) is a file manager program, originally written for the Amiga computer system in the early to mid-1990s. Commercial development on the version for the Amiga ceased in 1997. Directory Opus is still being actively developed and sold for the Microsoft Windows operating system by GPSoftware and there are open source releases of Directory Opus 4 and 5 for Amiga.  Directory Opus was originally developed by, and is still written by, Australian Jonathan Potter. Until 1994, it was published by well-known Amiga software company Inovatronics, when Potter joined with Greg Perry and the Australian-based GPSoftware to continue its development, and has since been published by GPSoftware.
Who is the author of Opus? [SEP] Opus 300  Opus 300 is a collection by American writer and scientist Isaac Asimov. It was published by Houghton Mifflin in the United States in 1984, and by Robert Hale Ltd in the United Kingdom in 1985. Asimov chose to celebrate the publication of his three hundredth book by writing about his previous 99 books, including excerpts from short stories and novels, as well as nonfiction articles and books. "Opus 300" also includes nine complete stories, several complete science essays, and one complete essay never before published, "The Forever Generation," which is not available anywhere else.
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP]  Jääpeili is a 1928 poetry collection by Finnish poet Aaro Hellaakoski, considered by contemporary Finnish literature critics to be one of his best works.
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP]   Pentti Haanpää (October 14, 1905 – September 30, 1955) was a Finnish author. He was born in Pulkkila, and is best known for his books Vääpeli Sadon tapaus 1935 and Noitaympyrä 1931. He died in Pyhäntä, aged 49.
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP]  Tuula Kallioniemi (born 22 March 1951 in Kymi) is an author of Finnish children's literature. She was awarded the Topelius Prize in 1979, the State's Prize for Literature in 1985 and the Anni Swan Medal in 1994. She wrote the Reuhurinteen ala-aste series, the first book of which was published in 1997. The books are about lives of the pupils and teacher Aapeli Käki in a fictional elementary school in Finland. Her other works include Lätkässä (1990), Rääväsuu rakastuu (1991) and Ihmemies Topi (1998).
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP] Anti jutud, 1983 ; Kirjutab näpuga õhku, 1986 ; Kolmekordne päike, 1988 (ISBN: 9785450003634) ; Lodus tiivad, 1989 ; Isa sipelgapesa, 1990 (ISBN: 9785450012063) ; Tarzani Seiklused Tallinnas, 1991 ; Kõhklev essee heitlusest ajaga, 1992 ; Elus enesetapja, 1999 (ISBN: 9789985862728) ; Jaa, 2000 (ISBN: 9789985924525) ; Miks Kafka nuttis?, 2000 (ISBN: 9789985928493) ; Jaak Kino, Kino-Mati ja teised, 2001 (ISBN: 9789985811092) ; Saint-Prousti vastu, 2002 (ISBN: 9789985811863) ; Teie, 2003 (ISBN: 9789985790434) ; Nips, 2004 (ISBN: 9789985790809) ; Tänulikud surnud, 2005 (ISBN: 9789985791240) ; Väike äratundmiste raamat, 2006 (ISBN: 9789985791660) ; Miks ma ei taha olla kirjanik?, 2008 (ISBN: 9789985792384) Raudam was born in Paide. He won the Friedebert Tuglas Award in 1989 for Lodus tiivad. He has won or been nominated for several other awards for his books, screenplays, and radio plays. His many books include:
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP]  (2013) ; Horna ("Inferno") (2014) ; Jäätyvä Helvetti ("Freezing Hell")(2015) ; Kiirastuli ("Purgatory")(2016)'' ; Vapauden risti ("The Cross of Freedom")(2017)'' Petri Pykälä (born 13 December 1962), commonly known by his pseudonym Ilkka Remes, is a Finnish author of thrillers and young adult literature. Remes was born in Luumäki. He has stated he uses a pseudonym because he does not want to be considered only a thriller writer, and wants to be able to write other genres of books in the future. Remes lives in Belgium with his wife and two children. He was awarded the Kalevi Jäntti Literature Award in 1997, the Clue of the Year Award from the
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP]
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP] Aaro Hellaakoski  Aaro Hellaakoski (June 22, 1893 – November 23, 1952) was a Finnish poet whose work includes some of the earliest examples of modernism in Finnish literature.  Hellaakoski was born in Oulu. By profession he was a geographer conducting studies in physical geography and geomorphology and working as a school teacher of geography as well as a university teacher. As a geographer he published scientific studies on topics such as the geological history of lake Saimaa and the geological history of lake Puula and spent his summers in geomorphological fieldwork in the Finnish Lakeland for many years. He also wrote some geography textbooks for schools together with other scholars.
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP] 1928 in poetry  Nationality words link to articles with information on the nation's poetry or literature (for instance, Irish or France).
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP] Olli Jalonen Olli Jalonen (born February 21, 1954 in Helsinki, is a Finnish author. He lives in Hämeenlinna, Finland. He has studied Social Sciences (M.A. and L.Soc.Sc) and Literature (Ph.D) and has worked in journalism before becoming a full-time writer in 1981. The debut book came out in 1978 and since that he has published over 20 books (mostly novels and short story collections) and drama. Some of his novels have been translated into German, Swedish, Norwegian, Estonian and Latvian, and short stories in different languages. Olli Jalonen studied at the University of Tampere 1973-2006 and also at Trinity College
Who is the author of Jääpeili? [SEP] to the academic researcher and novelist Virpi Hämeen-Anttila. Interviews and feature articles Jaakko Hämeen-Anttila Jaakko Hämeen-Anttila (born 26 February 1963) is a Finnish academic researcher, serving as a professor of the Arabic language and Islamic studies at the University of Edinburgh. Before that he was a professor at the University of Helsinki. He is one of the leading researchers of Islam in Finland. He has written many popular books on Islamic culture, history and poetry. Hämeen-Anttila also translated the Qur'an into Finnish in the year 1995 and the "Epic of Gilgamesh" in the year 2000. He serves on the editorial
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]  Zurawik is the author of The Jews of Prime Time (2003). After that book was published, Zurawik reported that he was working on a biography of Gertrude Berg based on records stored at Syracuse University.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]  Prime Time is a BBC Books original novel written by Mike Tucker and based on the long-running British science fiction television series Doctor Who. It features the Seventh Doctor and Ace.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]  In 1979, he published, together with his wife, a book entitled Prime Time which includes many backstage stories from the author's times as a producer.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]  Detecting a mysterious sub-space signal in the Time Vortex, the Doctor and Ace land on the planet 'Blinni Gaar'. They soon discover that the native population are little more than zombies, addicted to the programmes of the dangerously powerful Channel 400. As the Doctor investigates, he finds that the television company has a sinister agenda that has nothing to do with entertainment.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]  "Prime Time TV" is a song by Polish singer Basia released in 1986 as her debut solo single. It was included on her first album Time and Tide in 1987. The track was written by Basia, Danny White, and Peter Ross of Immaculate Fools, and produced by Danny and Basia.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP]
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP] The Jews of Prime Time  The Jews of Prime Time is a 2003 book by David Zurawik.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP] The Simpsons  The Simpsons is an American animated sitcom created by Matt Groening for the Fox Broadcasting Company. The series is a satirical depiction of American life, epitomized by the Simpson family, which consists of Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie. The show is set in the fictional town of Springfield and parodies American culture and society, television, and the human condition.  The family was conceived by Groening shortly before a solicitation for a series of animated shorts with producer James L. Brooks. He created a dysfunctional family and named the characters after his own family members, substituting Bart for his own name; he thought Simpson was a funny name in that it sounded similar to "simpleton". The shorts became a part of "The Tracey Ullman Show" on April 19, 1987. After three seasons, the sketch was developed into a half-hour prime time show and became Fox's first series to land in the Top 30 ratings in a season (1989–1990).  Since its debut on December 17, 1989, episodes of the show have been broadcast. It is the longest-running American animated series, longest-running American sitcom, and the longest-running American scripted primetime television series, both in terms of seasons and number of episodes. A feature-length film, "The Simpsons Movie", was released in theaters worldwide on July 27, 2007, and grossed over $527 million, with a sequel in development as of 2018. The series has also spawned numerous comic book series, video games, books, and other related media, as well as a billion-dollar merchandising industry. "The Simpsons" is a joint production by Gracie Films and 20th Television. On March 3, 2021, the series was announced to have been renewed for seasons 33 and 34, which were later confirmed to have 22 episodes each, increasing the episode count from 706 to 750. Its thirty-third season premiered on September 26, 2021 and ended on May 22, 2022. The thirty-fourth season premiered on September 25, 2022.  "The Simpsons" received widespread acclaim throughout its early seasons in the 1990s, which are generally considered its "golden age". Since then, it has been criticized for a perceived decline in quality. "Time" named it the 20th century's best television series, and Erik Adams of "The A.V. Club" named it "television's crowning achievement regardless of format". On January 14, 2000, the Simpson family was awarded a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame. It has won dozens of awards since it debuted as a series, including 35 Primetime Emmy Awards, 34 Annie Awards, and 2 Peabody Awards. Homer's exclamatory catchphrase of "D'oh!" has been adopted into the English language, while "The Simpsons" has influenced many other later adult-oriented animated sitcom television series.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP] The Jetsons  The Jetsons is an American animated sitcom produced by Hanna-Barbera Productions. It originally aired in prime time from September 23, 1962, to March 17, 1963, on ABC, then later aired in reruns via syndication, with new episodes produced from 1985 to 1987. It was Hanna-Barbera's Space Age counterpart to "The Flintstones".  While the Flintstones lived in a world which was a comical version of the Stone Age, with machines powered by birds and dinosaurs, the Jetsons live in a comical version of a century in the future, with elaborate robotic contraptions, aliens, holograms, and whimsical inventions.  The original had 24 episodes and aired on Sunday nights on ABC beginning on September 23, 1962, with prime time reruns continuing through September 22, 1963. It debuted as the first program broadcast in color on ABC, back in the early 1960s when only a handful of ABC stations were capable of broadcasting in color. In contrast, "The Flintstones", while always produced in color, was broadcast in black-and-white for its first two seasons.  The show was originally scheduled opposite "Walt Disney's Wonderful World of Color" and "Dennis the Menace" and did not receive much attention. Due to poor ratings, it was cancelled after its first season but was then moved to Saturday mornings, where it went on to be very successful. Following its primetime run, the show aired on Saturday mornings for decades, starting on ABC for the 1963–64 season and then on CBS and NBC. New episodes were produced for syndication from 1985 to 1987. No further specials or episodes of the show were produced after 1989, as the majority of the core cast (George O'Hanlon, Mel Blanc, and Daws Butler) had died in 1988 and 1989. The 1990 film "" served as the series finale to the television show.
Who is the author of Prime Time? [SEP] Hill Street Blues  Hill Street Blues is an American serial police procedural television series that aired on NBC in prime-time from January 15, 1981, to May 12, 1987, for 146 episodes. The show chronicles the lives of the staff of a single police station located on Hill Street in an unnamed large city. The "blues" are the police officers in their blue uniforms. The show received critical acclaim, and its production innovations influenced many subsequent dramatic television series produced in the United States and Canada. In its debut season, the series won eight Emmy Awards, a debut season record later surpassed only by "The West Wing". The show won a total of 26 Emmy Awards (out of 98 Emmy Award nominations) during its run, including four consecutive wins for Outstanding Drama Series.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP]  Trust Territory is a science fiction novel by American writers Chris Morris and Janet Morris, published in 1992. It is the second book of the Threshold trilogy.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Threshold (1990) (with Janet Morris) ; Trust Territory (1992) (with Janet Morris) ; The Stalk (1994) (with Janet Morris)
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Threshold (1990) ; Trust Territory (1992) ; The Stalk (1994)
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP]  Upon taking control of the region, the United States Navy decreed the removal of Japanese immigrants. The Trust Territory was managed by the navy until 1951, at which time administration was passed to the United States Department of the Interior. The following year, the Code of the Trust Territory was introduced. It defined nationals as persons born in the territory prior to 22 December 1952 who had not acquired other nationality, or those born after that date in the territory. It also confirmed that children born abroad to parents who were nationals of the Trust Territory derived their parents' nationality until the age of twenty-one. Foreigners over the age of eighteen were allowed to naturalize in the Trust Territories. Trust Territories nationals were not
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP]  Trust: America's Best Chance is a book written by Pete Buttigieg, the former Mayor of South Bend, Indiana and former 2020 Democratic presidential candidate. The book was published by Liveright Publishing on October 6, 2020.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Trust Territory (novel)  Trust Territory is a science fiction novel by American writers Chris Morris and Janet Morris, published in 1992. It is the second book of the Threshold trilogy.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP]
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Trust Territory of Somaliland  The Trust Territory of Somaliland, officially the "Trust Territory of Somaliland under Italian administration" (), was a United Nations Trust Territory situated in present-day Somalia. Its capital was Mogadishu and was administered by Italy from 1950 to 1960, following the dissolution of the former British Military Administration.  It gained independence in 1960.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Tanganyika Territory  Tanganyika was a colonial territory in East Africa which was administered by the United Kingdom in various guises from 1916 to 1961. It was initially administered under a military occupation regime. From 20 July 1922, it was formalised into a League of Nations mandate under British rule. From 1946, it was administered by the UK as a United Nations trust territory.  Before World War I, Tanganyika formed part of the German colony of German East Africa. It was gradually occupied by forces from the British Empire and Belgian Congo during the East Africa Campaign, although German resistance continued until 1918. After this, the League of Nations formalised the UK's control of the area, who renamed it "Tanganyika". The UK held Tanganyika as a League of Nations mandate until the end of World War II after which it was held as a United Nations trust territory. In 1961, Tanganyika gained its independence from the UK as Tanganyika. It became a republic a year later. Tanganyika now forms part of the modern-day sovereign state of Tanzania.
Who is the author of Trust Territory? [SEP] Territory of Papua and New Guinea  The Territory of Papua and New Guinea, officially the Administrative Union of the Territory of Papua and the Territory of New Guinea, was established by an administrative union between the Australian-administered territories of Papua and New Guinea (the latter being a United Nations trust territory administered by Australia) in 1949. In December 1971, the name of the Territory changed to "Papua New Guinea" and in 1975 it became the Independent State of Papua New Guinea.<ref name="Act1971" />
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP]  Balance of Power is a novel by Brian Stableford published in 1979.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP]  Dave Pringle reviewed Balance of Power for Imagine magazine, and stated that "this is a fairly humdrum example of Stableford's work. There is too much jungle-adventure and piracy-on-the-high-seas stuff in this book for it to succeed as SF."
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Balance of Power (1998). ; The Price of Power (1999) ; Flash Point (2000) ; Fallout (2001) ; Shadows of Power (2002) ; Secret Justice (2003) ; Marine One (2009) ; Falcon Seven (2010) ; Blood Flag (2015)
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Review by Mary Gentle (1984) in Interzone, #8 Summer 1984
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP]  Balance of Power is a novel in which the planetfalls of the 'recontact' ship Daedalus continue.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Balance of power (international relations)  The balance of power theory in international relations suggests that states may secure their survival by preventing any one state from gaining enough military power to dominate all others. If one state becomes much stronger, the theory predicts it will take advantage of its weaker neighbors, thereby driving them to unite in a defensive coalition. Some realists maintain that a balance-of-power system is more stable than one with a dominant state, as aggression is unprofitable when there is equilibrium of power between rival coalitions.  When threatened, states may seek safety either by "balancing", allying with others against the prevailing threat; or "bandwagoning", aligning themselves with the threatening power. Other alliance tactics include "buck-passing" and "chain-ganging". Realists have long debated how the polarity of a system impacts the choice of tactics; however, it is generally agreed that in bipolar systems, each great power has no choice but to directly confront the other. Along with debates between realists about the prevalence of balancing in alliance patterns, other schools of international relations, such as constructivists, are also critical of the balance of power theory, disputing core realist assumptions regarding the international system and the behavior of states.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Separation of powers  Separation of powers refers to the division of a state's government into branches, each with separate, independent powers and responsibilities, so that the powers of one branch are not in conflict with those of the other branches. The typical division is into three branches: a legislature, an executive, and a judiciary, which is sometimes called the model. It can be contrasted with the fusion of powers in parliamentary and semi-presidential systems where there can be overlap in membership and functions between different branches, especially the executive and legislative, although in most non-authoritarian jurisdictions, the judiciary almost never overlaps with the other branches, whether powers in the jurisdiction are separated or fused.  The intention behind a system of separated powers is to prevent the concentration of power by providing for checks and balances. The separation of powers model is often imprecisely and metonymically used interchangeably with the "" principle. While the model is a common type of separation, there are governments that have more or fewer than three branches.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Balance of Power (Star Trek)  Balance of Power is a "" novel by Dafydd Ab Hugh.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] The Tragedy of Great Power Politics  The Tragedy of Great Power Politics is a book by the American scholar John Mearsheimer on the subject of international relations theory published by W.W. Norton & Company in 2001. Mearsheimer explains and argues for his theory of "offensive realism" by stating its key assumptions, evolution from early realist theory, and its predictive capability. An article adapted from the book had previously been published by "Foreign Affairs".   The five bed-rock assumptions of Mearsheimer's theory of offensive realism are:   From these assumptions, Mearsheimer argues that states will constantly seek to accumulate power, and that cooperation between states is hard. The "tragedy" of great power politics is that even security-seeking great powers will nonetheless be forced to engage in competition and conflict with one another.
Who is the author of Balance of Power? [SEP] Balancing (international relations)  The concept of balancing derives from the balance of power theory, the most influential theory from the realist school of thought, which assumes that a formation of hegemony in a multistate system is unattainable since hegemony is perceived as a threat by other states, causing them to engage in balancing against a potential hegemon.  Balancing encompasses the actions that a particular state or group of states take in order to equalise the odds against more powerful states; that is to make it more difficult and hence less likely for powerful states to exert their military advantage over the weaker ones.  According to the balance of power theory, states, motivated primarily by their desire for survival and security, will develop and implement military capabilities and hard power mechanisms in order to constrain the most powerful and rising state that can prove a potential threat. This idea illustrates the concept of internal balancing, which is opposed to external, under which states come together and form an alliance to balance and gain more leverage over a dominant or rising power. In recent years, soft-balancing has emerged as a new concept of illustrating how states balance powerful actors, which advocates the use of economic and diplomatic tools to constrain the most powerful state and inhibit their exertion of power and dominance.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP]  The book comprises a series of essays written by individuals working in related fields. These writers address the state of knowledge in the specific fields and how this conflicts with common knowledge. The contributors are Stanley Feldman, Vincent Marks, Michael Fizpatrick, Maurice Hanssen, John Henry, Mick Hume, Lakshman Karalliedde, Malcolm Kendrick, Peter Lachmann, James Le Fanu, Sandy Macnair, Sam Shuster and Dick Taverne QC.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP]  A Few Seconds of Panic is a nonfiction first-person narrative by Stefan Fatsis, published in 2008. The book chronicles Fatsis, a professional 43-year-old sportswriter working for The Wall Street Journal, and his attempt to play in the National Football League. Along the way, he relates the personal stories and struggles that professional football players face in the league. After some setbacks, Fatsis eventually finds some success as a backup placekicker for the Denver Broncos. The book's title comes from Jason Elam's description of being a kicker as "hours and hours of boredom surrounded by a few seconds of panic." A Few Seconds of Panic has been compared to George Plimpton's Paper Lion, a 1966 book wherein the author joins the Detroit Lions as a backup quarterback.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP]  His first book, Anxiety, Phobias & Panic: Taking Charge and Conquering Fear currently has over 180,000 copies in print. Originally published in 1988. A revised second edition was released by Warner Books in 1995. It was again updated and released in its third edition in 2005. It has a UK edition as well as editions in German, Spanish, and Hungarian. His second book, Overcoming Anxiety: From Short-Term Fixes to Long-Term Recovery, was released in 1997 by Henry Holt. It also has a Spanish edition and will soon be released in a German edition. His third book, Anger: Taming the Beast, was released in June 1999 by Kodansha America. It also has a Dutch edition and will soon be released in a German edition by Hans Huber. Mr. Peurifoy's fourth book, Why Did God Give Us Emotions? was released in September 2009.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP]  RTÉ.ie described the book as an "absorbing thriller" that is "a fast, furious and fun read". Oline Cogdill of the South Florida Sun-Sentinel said that Abbott takes the novel "just to the boundaries of disbelief", but still manages to make it "credible" and "still a shocker".
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP]  The Panic Zone is a thriller novel by Canadian author Rick Mofina released on June 30, 2010. It is a Globe and Mail Canadian bestseller.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP] Panic Spring  Panic Spring is a novel by Lawrence Durrell, published in 1937 by Faber and Faber in Britain and Covici-Friede in the United States under the pseudonym Charles Norden. It is set on a fictional Greek Island, Mavrodaphne, in the Ionian Sea somewhere between Patras, Kephalonia, and Ithaca. The island, however, resembles Corfu strongly, and in at least one inscribed copy of the novel, Durrell includes a map of Corfu identified as Mavrodaphne.  The novel progresses through multiple perspectives in the successive chapters, each focusing on a different character. As a whole, the novel shows Durrell's myriad influences of this period, ranging from Remy de Gourmont to Richard Aldington, D. H. Lawrence, and several Elizabethan writers.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP] Shoji Gatoh  Gatoh first met with Koichi Chigira by accident when he bumped into him in Shinjuku when he was late for work. Later on, the two were shocked to meet with one another in the Gonzo Digimation office. The two would eventually team up to create the "Full Metal Panic!" anime television series.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP] Lauren Oliver  Lauren Oliver (born Laura Suzanne Schechter; November 8, 1982) is an American author of numerous young adult novels including "Panic;" the Delirium trilogy: "Delirium", "Pandemonium," and "Requiem;" and "Before I Fall," which became a major motion picture in 2017. "Panic" was also turned into a series by Amazon studios. She served as creator, writer and showrunner on the project. Her novels have been translated into more than thirty languages internationally. Oliver is a 2012 E.B. White Read-Aloud Award nominee for her middle-grade novel "Liesl & Po", as well as author of the middle-grade fantasy novel "The Spindlers".  Oliver graduated from the University of Chicago, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and also received a Master of Fine Arts degree from New York University. In 2010, Oliver co-founded Paper Lantern Lit, a literary “incubator”/ development company now called Glasstown Entertainment with Razorbill editor and poet Lexa Hillyer.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP] Panic Room  Panic Room is a 2002 American thriller film directed by David Fincher. The film stars Jodie Foster and Kristen Stewart as a mother and daughter whose new home is invaded by burglars, played by Forest Whitaker, Jared Leto, and Dwight Yoakam. The script was written by David Koepp, whose screenplay was inspired by news coverage in 2000 about panic rooms.  The film was Fincher's fifth feature film, following "Fight Club" (1999). Fincher and Koepp brought together a crew of people with whom each had worked before. The house and its panic room were built on a Raleigh Studios lot. Nicole Kidman was originally cast as the mother, but she left after aggravating a previous injury. Her departure threatened the completion of the film, but Foster quickly replaced Kidman. The filmmakers used computer-generated imagery to create the illusion of the film camera moving through the house's rooms. Foster became pregnant during the shooting schedule, so filming was suspended until after she gave birth. The film's production cost .  The film was commercially released in the United States and Canada on , 2002. The film grossed on its opening weekend. In the United States and Canada, it grossed . In other territories, it grossed for a worldwide total of . The film was well-received by critics, who praised Foster's performance and the film's suspense. "Panic Room" has been assessed for its portrayal of childhood and feminism, the elements of video surveillance and diabetes, and its thematic approach to mortality.
Who is the author of Panic? [SEP] Full Metal Panic!  Individual chapters are published on "Monthly Dragon Magazine", followed by a paperback compilation released by Fujimi Shobo's Fujimi Fantasia Bunko. The novels are split between stories focusing on Sousuke's mission as a soldier of Mithril and comedic side stories centered on his life at Jindai High School.  The series has been adapted into different media; including four anime television series: "Full Metal Panic!" by Gonzo in 2002, "Full Metal Panic? Fumoffu" and "Full Metal Panic! The Second Raid" by Kyoto Animation in 2003 and 2005 respectively. An OVA was also released in 2006; and the newest television series, "Full Metal Panic! Invisible Victory" by Xebec, premiered in April 2018. The series also had several different manga series.  Tokyopop licensed the novels for English-language publication in North America and released parts of the series, while ADV Films licensed and dubbed the first season and the spin-off. The second season was licensed by Kadokawa Pictures USA with ADV Films producing the dub yet again. Mandalay Pictures acquired the film rights to the series in 2009. At Anime USA 2009, Funimation announced that it had acquired the rights to the first and second series of "Full Metal Panic!" and both were re-released and remastered on DVD and Blu-ray in 2010. The series began airing in North America on November 22, 2010, on the Funimation Channel. The "Fumoffu" series made its North American television debut on the Funimation Channel on November 15, 2010.  A spin-off to the light-novel series called "Full Metal Panic! Another" was serialized between 2011 and 2016. "Another" received a manga adaptation split in two series, the second of which is still being published. The light novels have sold 11 million copies making it twelfth best-selling light novel.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP]  Lying is a 2011 long-form essay book by American author and neuroscience expert Sam Harris. Harris argues that we can radically simplify our lives and improve society by merely telling the truth in situations where others often lie.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP]  935 Lies: The Future of Truth and the Decline of America's Moral Integrity is a book written by investigative journalist Charles Lewis, published by PublicAffairs in 2014, as an exploration of the many ways truth is manipulated by governments and corporations. The title is a reference to the number of times the George W. Bush and seven top officials of his administration lied to the American public about the national security threat posed by Iraq prior to the 2003 invasion.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP]  Dickinson is co-author of "Lie-by-lie," a writing on the Iraq war. This piece was a National Magazine Award finalist in 2007 for best Interactive Feature.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP]  The book collects twelve short works of fiction by the author.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP]  2001) won the 1999 Stephen Crane Literary Award. In September 2004, Viking Press published When Presidents Lie|When Presidents Lie: A History of Official Deception and its Consequences - a version of his doctoral dissertation - on lies of major consequence told by presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Ronald Reagan and George W. Bush. His seventh book, published in 2008 by Viking was called Why We're Liberals: A Political Handbook for Post-Bush America. Also in 2008, Alterman published a lengthy essay in The New Yorker on the decline of American newspapers and the future role of new media
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP] Jonas Lie (writer)  Jonas Lauritz Idemil Lie (; 6 November 1833 – 5 July 1908) was a Norwegian novelist, poet, and playwright who, together with Henrik Ibsen, Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson and Alexander Kielland, is considered to have been one of "the Four Greats" of 19th century Norwegian literature.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP] William Moulton Marston  William Moulton Marston (May 9, 1893 – May 2, 1947), also known by the pen name Charles Moulton (), was an American psychologist who, with his wife Elizabeth Holloway, invented an early prototype of the lie detector. He was also known as a self-help author and comic book writer who created the character Wonder Woman.<ref name="NYT-20141023"/>  Two women, his wife Elizabeth Holloway Marston, and their polyamorous life partner, Olive Byrne, greatly influenced Wonder Woman's creation.  He was inducted into the Comic Book Hall of Fame in 2006.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP] Lie to Me  Lie to Me (stylized as Lie to me*) is an American crime drama television series. It originally ran on the Fox network from January 21, 2009, to January 31, 2011. In the show, Dr. Cal Lightman (Tim Roth) and his colleagues in The Lightman Group accept assignments from third parties (commonly local and federal law enforcement), and assist in investigations, reaching the truth through applied psychology: interpreting microexpressions, through the Facial Action Coding System, and body language. In May 2009, the show was renewed for a second season consisting of 13 episodes; season two premiered on September 28, 2009. On November 24, 2009, Fox ordered an extra nine episodes for season two, bringing the season order to 22 episodes.  On May 12, 2010, "Entertainment Weekly" reported that "Lie to Me" received a 13-episode third season pick-up. The third season of "Lie to Me" was originally set to premiere on November 10, 2010. On September 28, 2010, the date was moved up to October 4, 2010, because of the cancellation of "Lone Star". On May 11, 2011, Fox canceled "Lie to Me" after three seasons.  The show is inspired by the work of Paul Ekman, a specialist on facial expressions and a professor emeritus of psychology at the University of California San Francisco School of Medicine. Ekman has been an advisor to police departments and anti-terrorism groups. He was a scientific consultant in the production of the series. The lead character of "Lie to Me", Cal Lightman, is based on Ekman.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP] Your Lie in April  The manga series originated from a one-shot comic that Arakawa entered in a competition; he based the series on it and drew inspiration from the existence of musical manga, such as "Beck" and "Nodame Cantabile". A-1 Pictures adapted "Your Lie in April" into an anime television series that was aired on Fuji TV's Noitamina block from October 2014 to March 2015, and an original video animation (OVA) episode was released in May 2015. A live-action film adaptation of the same name was released in September 2016.  "Your Lie in April" received mixed reviews; several critics praised its plot and characters but criticized the artwork. Critics largely acclaimed the anime adaptation for its plot, animation, and soundtrack.
Who is the author of The Lie? [SEP] A Bright Shining Lie  A Bright Shining Lie: John Paul Vann and America in Vietnam (1988) is a book by Neil Sheehan, a former "New York Times" reporter, about U.S. Army lieutenant colonel John Paul Vann (killed in action) and the United States' involvement in the Vietnam War.  Sheehan was awarded the 1988 National Book Award for Nonfiction and the 1989 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction for the book. It was adapted as a film of the same name released by HBO in 1998, starring Bill Paxton and Amy Madigan.
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP]  Stephen Skinner (born 22 March 1948) is an Australian author, editor, publisher and lecturer. He is known for authoring books on magic, feng shui, sacred geometry and alchemy. He has published more than 46 books in more than 20 languages.
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP]  Skinner is an author of books on the Western Esoteric Tradition, magic and feng shui. His first book (with co-author Nevill Drury) was Search for Abraxas published in 1972, and subsequently re-published in 2013 and 2016. With the publication of the Living Earth Manual of Feng Shui in 1976, the first book on feng shui in English written in the 20th century Skinner was "credited with bringing feng shui to the West". In 2006, he published The Complete Magician's Tables which contains tables on Magic, Kabbalah, Angels, Astrology, Alchemy, Demons, Geomancy, Grimoires, Gematria, I Ching, Tarot, Pagan pantheons, Plants, Perfumes and Character correspondences in more than 800 Tables, four times as
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP]  Between 1961 and 1970, Skinner published four novels as Rohan O'Grady. Her fifth and final work, The May Spoon, was released in 1981 and credited to A. Carleon (Ann Carleon is the name of Skinner's great-grandmother). Her third book, Let's Kill Uncle, was her most successful and was made into a movie Let's Kill Uncle by the legendary horror-film producer William Castle in 1966, starring Nigel Green, Mary Badham, Pat Cardi and Robert Pickering. First editions of Skinner's second book, Pippin's Journal, are prized by collectors for their illustrations by Edward Gorey. After nearly three decades of relative obscurity, Skinner returned to public attention as the subject of a January 2009 feature in The
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP]  Burrhus Frederic Skinner (March 20, 1904 – August 18, 1990) was an American psychologist, behaviorist, author, inventor, and social philosopher. He was a professor of psychology at Harvard University from 1958 until his retirement in 1974. Considering free will to be an illusion, Skinner saw human action as dependent on consequences of previous actions, a theory he would articulate as the principle of reinforcement: If the consequences to an action are bad, there is a high chance the action will not be repeated; if the consequences are good, the probability of the action being repeated becomes stronger. Skinner developed behavior analysis, especially the philosophy of radical behaviorism, and founded the experimental analysis of behavior, a school of experimental research psychology. He also used operant conditioning to strengthen behavior, considering the rate
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP]  of a decentralized, localized society, which applies a practical, scientific approach and behavioral expertise to deal peacefully with social problems. (For example, his views led him to oppose corporal punishment in schools, and he wrote a letter to the California Senate that helped lead it to a ban on spanking. ) Skinner's utopia is both a thought experiment and a rhetorical piece. In Walden Two, Skinner answers the problem that exists in many utopian novels – "What is the Good Life?" The book's answer is a life of friendship, health, art, a healthy balance between work and leisure, a minimum of unpleasantness, and a feeling that one has made
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP] Walden Two  Walden Two is a utopian novel written by behavioral psychologist B. F. Skinner, first published in 1948. In its time, it could have been considered science fiction, since science-based methods for altering people's behavior did not yet exist. Such methods are now known as applied behavior analysis.  "Walden Two" is controversial because its characters speak of a rejection of free will, including a rejection of the proposition that human behavior is controlled by a non-corporeal entity, such as a spirit or a soul. "Walden Two" embraces the proposition that the behavior of organisms, including humans, is determined by environmental variables, and that systematically altering environmental variables can generate a sociocultural system that very closely approximates utopia.
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP] Quintin Jardine  Quintin Jardine (born 1945) is a Scottish author of three series of crime novels, featuring the fictional characters Bob Skinner, Oz Blackstone, and Primavera Blackstone.
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP] B. F. Skinner  Burrhus Frederic Skinner (March 20, 1904 – August 18, 1990) was an American psychologist, behaviorist, author, inventor, and social philosopher. He was a professor of psychology at Harvard University from 1958 until his retirement in 1974.  Considering free will to be an illusion, Skinner saw human action as dependent on consequences of previous actions, a theory he would articulate as the "principle of reinforcement": If the consequences to an action are bad, there is a high chance the action will not be repeated; if the consequences are good, the probability of the action being repeated becomes stronger.  Skinner developed behavior analysis, especially the philosophy of "radical behaviorism", and founded the experimental analysis of behavior, a school of experimental research psychology. He also used operant conditioning to strengthen behavior, considering the rate of response to be the most effective measure of response strength. To study operant conditioning, he invented the operant conditioning chamber (aka the Skinner box),  Skinner was a prolific author, publishing 21 books and 180 articles. He imagined the application of his ideas to the design of a human community in his 1948 utopian novel, "Walden Two",  Skinner, John B. Watson and Ivan Pavlov, are considered to be the pioneers of modern behaviorism. Accordingly, a June 2002 survey listed Skinner as the most influential psychologist of the 20th century.
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP] Verbal Behavior  Verbal Behavior is a 1957 book by psychologist B. F. Skinner, in which he describes what he calls verbal behavior, or what was traditionally called linguistics. Skinner's work describes the controlling elements of verbal behavior with terminology invented for the analysis - "echoics, mands, tacts, autoclitics" and others - as well as carefully defined uses of ordinary terms such as "audience".
Who is the author of Skinner's Rules? [SEP] Leonard Skinner  Forby Leonard Skinner (January 11, 1933 – September 20, 2010) was an American high school gym teacher, basketball coach, and businessman from Jacksonville, Florida. He is known in popular culture as the eponym of the rock band Lynyrd Skynyrd; Skinner was the band members' teacher.
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]  Epstein is the author of two novels, En trollkarl vittnar inte (1992) and Sju dagar i augusti (1994) both released by the publisher Brombergs.
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]  Mats Wahl (born May 10, 1945 in Malmö, Sweden) is a Swedish author. He has published 43 books but also written several plays for the theatre, TV programs, novels and movies. Vinterviken (in English: the Winter bay) is one of his most famous books, which is also a film.
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]  Folke Lars-Olov Strömstedt, (23 May 1935, Gävle - 4 July 2009), better known as Lasse Strömstedt, was a Swedish writer who wrote of and about his own life in prison and drug abuse. Strömstedt was born in Gävle in 1935. He was a casual laborer whose working life was frequently disrupted by imprisonment. After 1971 he changed his life and became a writer, debater and actor. In 1974, Strömsted published his first novel, Grundbulten (The Cornerstone), written together with reporter Christer Dahl under the pseudonym Kenneth Ahl. Strömstedt was married to Swedish singer and writer Ann-Christine Bärnsten. He died aged 74 of natural causes in Gränna on 4 July 2009.
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP] Jag har fått en klocka! 1991 ; Sakboken 1995 ; Djurboken 1995 ; Liten och stor 1995 ; Tussas Kalas 1996 (author Martin Vårdstedt and Anna Hörling) ; Siffror och Nuffror 1997 (author Anna Hörling) ; Hedvig! (author Frida Nilsson) ; Hedvig och sommaren med steken (author Frida Nilsson) ; Hedvig och Hardemos prinsessa (author Frida Nilsson) ; Hallå därinne! 2010 (author Ulf Stark) ; En stjärna vid namn Ajax (author Ulf Stark) ; Systern från havet (author Ulf Stark) ; Full cirkus på Sockerbullen 2012 (together with Carin Wirsén) ; Jag 2012 ; Liten - a book about children’s vulnerability and the responsibility of the grownups. Commissioned by the Swedish Crime Victim Compensation and Support Authority (Brottsoffermyndigheten) 2015 (Author Stina Wirsén unless otherwise stated)
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]  Erik Martin Österdahl (born 12 October 1973) is a Swedish author and television producer. From 2008 to 2014 he worked on broadcasts of Mästarnas mästare, Allt för Sverige and Skavlan for SVT. His first book, Be inte om nåd ("Don't beg for mercy"), was published in 2016. He is currently the European Broadcasting Union's Executive Supervisor of the Eurovision Song Contest.
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP]
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP] Louise Epstein Dina "Louise" Epstein, (born 16 July 1965 in Malmö) is a Swedish journalist and author. Louise Epstein has studied literary science and history of ideas at Lunds university. She also studied to become a radio producer at Dramatiska Institutet. Epstein is the author of two novels, "En trollkarl vittnar inte" (1992) and "Sju dagar i augusti" (1994) both released by the publisher Brombergs. She works at Sveriges Radios culture department and is every year one of the first to comment the announcement of that years Nobel prize winner in Literature. Since Januari 2011 and along with Thomas Nordegren,
Who is the author of Visst katten har djuren själ!? [SEP] strong violence. The book was published through the major publisher Norstedts förlag and created a scandal. Due to the advanced use of language, several critics were convinced that the book was written by an established novelist from Västerbotten, and people such as Stig Larsson, Per Olov Enquist and Torgny Lindgren were mentioned as suspects. Eventually a journalist was able to identify the real author, which was followed by further rumours and speculation about Teratologen's interests and personality. The book eventually received cult status and had become a commercial success by the mid 2000s. It was published in English in 2012
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP]  "Let's Not" is a science fiction short story by American writer Isaac Asimov. It was first published in Boston University Graduate Journal in December 1954. It was written for no payment as a favor to the journal, and later appeared in the 1975 collection Buy Jupiter and Other Stories.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] 2009 Norma Farber First Book Award, Let's Not Call It Consequence ; 2012 John P. Birkelund Berlin Prize in the Humanities and Fellow at the American Academy in Berlin for Spring 2012 ; 2017 Writer-in-Residence, Gloucester Writers Center.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] The Economist ; MAD, magazine ; The Marriage Plot (2011), novel
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP]  The book reached number six on The New York Times Hardcover Nonfiction best-sellers list.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP]  There have been references (in a non-review/article context) to Let's Go in:
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight  Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight, a memoir of life with Alexandra Fuller and her family on a farm in Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe.) After the Rhodesian Bush War ended in 1980, the Fullers moved to Malawi, and then to Zambia. "Don't Let's Go to the Dogs Tonight" won the Winifred Holtby Memorial Prize in 2002, was a "New York Times" Notable Book for 2002 and a finalist for "The Guardian"s First Book Award, an award given to the best regional novel of the year.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] Let's Not Meet: A True Horror Podcast  Let's Not Meet: A True Horror Podcast is a true horror podcast hosted by Andrew Tate and produced by "Cryptic County". Each episode consists of Andrew Tate narrating a number of true short stories.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood  "Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood" is a song written by Bennie Benjamin, Horace Ott and Sol Marcus for the American singer-songwriter and pianist Nina Simone, who recorded the first version in 1964. "Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood" has been covered by many artists. Two of the covers were transatlantic hits, the first in 1965 by The Animals, which was a blues rock version; and a 1977 by the disco group Santa Esmeralda, which was a four-on-the-floor rearrangement. A 1986 cover by new wave musician Elvis Costello found success in Britain and Ireland.
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP] Let's Not Fall in Love  "Let's Not Fall in Love" () is a song recorded by South Korean boy band Big Bang. It was released through YG Entertainment on August 5, 2015, alongside the single "Zutter"; both tracks make up the single album "E" as part of the group's "Made" series. The recording was written and produced by long-time group collaborator Teddy Park and band member G-Dragon. Musically, the pop-rock infused dance track features a variety of vocal samplings, acoustic melodies, and hazy synths, while the lyrical content explores the subtle insecurities that come along with teenage love.  Following the release of "Let's Not Fall in Love", it was met with positive reviews from music critics, many of whom highlighted the track's unique and sentimental composition, and further praised the band's versatility with emotional and complex themes that are seldom seen in K-pop. A commercial success, the track topped both the Gaon Digital Chart as well as the US World Digital Songs and garnered nearly 1,400,000 downloads in South Korea by the end of 2016. The song's pastel-colored music video was released simultaneously with the release of "E" and depicts the band members in a hazily-lit school courtyard, each taking on the role of a boyfriend. Promotions for the single featured Big Bang performing the song live on the music program "Inkigayo" along with their ongoing Made World Tour (2015–16).
Who is the author of Let's Not? [SEP]
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP]  Pursuit (2003) is a science fiction novel by authors Andy Mangels and Michael A. Martin which conclude the events of the television series Roswell. The series had ended in somewhat of a cliffhanger, with the main characters on the run from an evil subunit of the FBI. Pursuit and Turnabout conclude this story arc, although there are other plot elements that remain a possibility for future narratives.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP]  The book's title refers to a textbook by Dr Sydney Louth, under whom Frensic read English Literature at Oxford. This is a thinly disguised reference to real life critic F. R. Leavis, author of The Great Tradition and The Common Pursuit.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP]  This Long Pursuit is an autobiographical book written by biographer Richard Holmes and published by Harper Collins in 2016. It covers his methods, techniques, and memoirs.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP]  The story is a farce about greed in the publishing world, and the struggle between literature as a high art and the commercial imperative to reduce it to its lowest common denominator. The action takes place in London, New York City, the Deep South and the Maine coast.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP]  Pursuit of Honor is a novel by Vince Flynn and the tenth novel in the Mitch Rapp series. It was published on December 1, 2009.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP] The Pursuit of Happyness  The Pursuit of Happyness is a 2006 American biographical drama film directed by Gabriele Muccino and starring Will Smith as Chris Gardner, a homeless salesman. Smith's son Jaden Smith co-stars, making his film debut as Gardner's son, Christopher Jr. The screenplay by Steven Conrad is based on the best-selling 2006 memoir of the same name written by Gardner with Quincy Troupe. It is based on Gardner's nearly one-year struggle being homeless. The unusual spelling of the film's title comes from a mural that Gardner sees on the wall outside the daycare facility his son attended. The movie is set in San Francisco in 1981.  The film was released on December 15, 2006, by Columbia Pictures, and received moderately positive reviews, with Smith’s performance and the emotional weight of the story garnering universal acclaim. Smith was nominated for an Oscar and a Golden Globe for Best Actor.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP] The Pursuit of Love  The Pursuit of Love is a novel by Nancy Mitford, first published in 1945. It is the first in a trilogy about an upper-class English family in the interwar period focusing on the romantic life of Linda Radlett, as narrated by her cousin, Fanny Logan. Although a comedy, the story has tragic overtones.  The book was an immediate best-seller and sold 200,000 copies within a year of publication.  Mitford wrote two sequels to the novel, "Love in a Cold Climate" (1949) and "Don't Tell Alfred" (1960). Her penultimate novel, "The Blessing" (1951), also makes references to "The Pursuit of Love" and characters from "The Blessing" later appear in "Don't Tell Alfred".
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP] A. W. Tozer  Aiden Wilson Tozer (April 21, 1897 – May 12, 1963) was an American Christian pastor, author, magazine editor, and spiritual mentor. For his accomplishments, he received honorary doctorates from Wheaton and Houghton colleges.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP] The Pursuit of the House-Boat  The Pursuit of the House-Boat is an 1897 novel by John Kendrick Bangs, and the second one to feature his Associated Shades take on the afterlife.  The original full title was "The Pursuit of the House-Boat: Being Some Further Account of the Divers Doings of the Associated Shades, Under the Leadership of Sherlock Holmes, Esq." and it has also been titled "In Pursuit of the House-Boat" and "Pursuit of the House-Boat".  There are 12 chapters in the book. They were first published as a serial, under the full-title and including the Newell illustrations, in "Harper's Weekly" from February 6 to April 24, 1897.
Who is the author of Pursuit? [SEP] The Great Pursuit  The Great Pursuit is a 1977 comic novel by Tom Sharpe. It is a satire encompassing commercialism in publishing and literary criticism.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]  Incoming is a 3D shooter video game developed by Rage Software and published by Interplay. The game was first released for Microsoft Windows in late 1998, and was followed by a Sega Dreamcast version, which was released in Japan on December 17, 1998, in Europe on October 14, 1999, and in North America on September 15, 1999. Set in the near-future of 2009, the game primarily revolves around controlling vehicles and turrets to fight alien invaders of Earth in one of the campaign modes, the arcade mode, and with or against another player. Some levels include brief real-time strategy segments. Praised for its then-advanced graphics and sound, the game was generally well-received on the PC, though the critical response was less positive for the Dreamcast version. A sequel entitled Incoming Forces was released in 2002 exclusively for the PC. An arcade version of the game, utilising a unique hardware interface, was released in 2003.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]  After college he worked on the Desert Dispatch in Barstow, California before relocating to San Francisco where he worked for the Associated Press news wire service and collaborated with his former Reed classmate Jon Appleton writing musical comedies. In March 1967 his novel Informed Sources: Day East Received, a satirical allegory of the assassination of John F. Kennedy in the form of fictional news wire bulletins, was distributed in an edition of about 500 mimeographed copies by Chester Anderson and Claude Hayward's hippie news bureau, the Communications Company, which distributed daily (and sometimes hourly) broadsides on the streets of the Haight-Ashbury district during the Summer of Love. Informed Sources was reissued by Doubleday in 1969, and in England by Faber in 1970 (ISBN: 9780571092345). The book was critically well-received. Lawrence Lipton in the Los Angeles Free Press wrote: "The author, whoever he is, is the master arsonist of ideas, a light-bringer as well as a fire-bringer. This book may turn out to be the first major work of the hip era in writing." He opened a bookstore called Paper Ships in Corte Madera, California in 1970.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]  Incoming is the debut album by the British synthpop band Blue October.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]  The Arrival is the 38th book in the Animorphs series, written by K.A. Applegate. It has been ghostwritten by Kim Morris. It is narrated by Ax.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP] Barney Miller: Vocals ; Glen Wisbey: Keyboards & Programming ; Matthew Davies: Guitars ; Emma Spiers: Backing Vocals on Safe
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP] William J. Birnes  William J. "Bill" Birnes (born November 7, 1944) is an American author, the incoming auditor for Solebury Township, Pennsylvania, the chairman of the board at Sunrise Community Counseling Center, and ufologist.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP]
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP] Carrie (novel)  Carrie is a 1974 horror novel by American author Stephen King. Taking place in Chamberlain, Maine, it revolves around Carrie White, a friendless, bullied high-school girl from an abusive religious household who discovers that she has telekinetic powers. Feeling guilt toward harassing Carrie, Sue Snell invites Carrie to the prom with Tommy Ross, but a humiliating prank during the prom by Chris Hargensen leads to Carrie destroying the town with her powers. The narrative contains fictional documents in approximately chronological order that present multiple perspectives on the prom incident and its perpetrator. "Carrie" deals with themes of ostracism and revenge, with the opening shower scene and the destruction of Chamberlain being pivotal scenes.  King started writing "Carrie", intended to be a short story for the men's magazine "Cavalier", after a friend's suggestion about writing a story of a female character. Though King initially gave up writing "Carrie" due to discomfort and apathy, his wife Tabitha convinced King to continue writing the story, though King felt that it would never be successful. King wrote the character of Carrie based on two girls he knew in high school and enjoyed fabricating the documents for the narrative. After Doubleday accepted "Carrie" to be published, King worked with editor Bill Thompson to revise the novel.   "Carrie" was published on April 5, 1974, with a print run of 30,000 copies, and a paperback edition was published by New American Library in April 1975. The paperback edition became a bestseller, particularly after the release of the 1976 film adaptation, reaching four million sales. "Carrie" received generally positive reviews, both contemporaneously and retrospectively. Being a debut novel, "Carrie" launched King's career and helped achieve him mainstream success. It has also been credited for reviving mainstream interest in horror fiction and being influential among contemporary horror writers. Four film adaptations have been released, with one getting a sequel, and a musical adaptation was released in 1988.
Who is the author of Incoming? [SEP] Message submission agent  A message submission agent (MSA), or mail submission agent, is a computer program or software agent that receives electronic mail messages from a mail user agent (MUA) and cooperates with a mail transfer agent (MTA) for delivery of the mail. It uses ESMTP, a variant of the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP), as specified in RFC 6409.<ref name="rfc6409"/>  Many MTAs perform the function of an MSA as well, but there are also programs that are specially designed as MSAs without full MTA functionality. Historically, in Internet mail, both MTA and MSA functions use port number 25, but the official port for MSAs is 587.<ref name="rfc6409"> </ref> The MTA accepts a user's incoming mail, while the MSA accepts a user's outgoing mail.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP]  Conan, Lord of the Black River is a fantasy novel by American writer Leonard Carpenter, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Tor Books in April 1996.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP]  "Beyond the Black River" is one of the original short stories about Conan the Cimmerian, written by American author Robert E. Howard and first published in Weird Tales magazine, v. 25, nos. 5-6, May-June 1935. The story was republished in the collections King Conan (Gnome Press, 1953) and Conan the Warrior (Lancer Books, 1967). It has more recently been published in the anthology The Mighty Swordsmen (Lancer Books, 1970), and the collections The Conan Chronicles Volume 2: The Hour of the Dragon (Gollancz, 2001) and Conan of Cimmeria: Volume Three (1935-1936) (Del Rey, 2005). It's set in the pseudo-historical Hyborian Age and concerns Conan's battle against a savage tribe of Picts in the unsettled lands beyond the infamous Black River.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] The story was adapted by Roy Thomas, John Buscema and Tony de Zuniga in Savage Sword of Conan #26 and #27. ; The story was also the basis for the GURPS: Conan adventure module "Beyond Thunder River". ; The Sword, on their album Gods of the Earth, based the song "The Black River" on this story.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP]  "Queen of the Black Coast" is one of the original short stories about Conan the Cimmerian, written by American author Robert E. Howard and first published in Weird Tales magazine c. May 1934. During the pseudo-historical Hyborian Age, Conan becomes a notorious pirate plundering the coastal villages of Kush alongside Bêlit, a head-strong femme fatale. Due to its epic scope and atypical romance, the story is an undisputed classic of Conan lore and is often cited by Howard scholars as one of his most famous tales. Howard earned $115 selling this story to Weird Tales, and it is now in the public domain.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP]  After successfully fulfilling his commission to overthrow a tyrannical baron in Koth, Conan travels into Baalur, a city-state in Shem. The queen of Baalur, Rufia, needs his aid. Baalur is suffering from a plague cast upon it by Zeriti, an old enemy of his previously believed dead. Zeriti seeks to settle a score dating from Conan's previous encounter with the two women, told in the story "Hawks Over Shem", and her curse is transforming Rufia's subjects into hideous zombies. With an army of Baalurian soldiers, Conan begins his journey to retrieve a white lotus, the primary antidote for removing Zeriti's cruse, said to only bloom near the source of the Styx, the infamous black river. His army marches across the city-state
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] Conan, Lord of the Black River  Conan, Lord of the Black River is a fantasy novel by American writer Leonard Carpenter, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in paperback by Tor Books in April 1996.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] Conan chronologies  This article covers some of the major Conan chronologies that have been advanced over the years. From the 1930s onward a number of fans and scholars have analyzed the numerous Conan the Barbarian stories by Robert E. Howard and later writers, and attempted to organize them into a chronological timeline.  Going beyond a simple fan activity, these efforts have had a significant impact on the development of the popular conception of the character of Conan as well as economic consequences on the Conan franchise. As Paolo Bertetti observes, the focus on the creation of a character chronology outside the work of the original author begins a "process that tends to transform the character into a social object of inter-individual construction and public debate, rendering it independent of texts in which it was born," and in the case of Conan, this has led to the exploitation of the character for commercial reasons and perhaps encouraged and justified the proliferation of pastiche stories and novels over the years.  A number of factors have prevented the establishment of a consensus on order of the Conan stories, most notably the fact that Howard himself apparently had little more than a general idea of the character's career path and intentionally wrote the stories out of chronological sequence.   Clearly, the stories where Conan is a thief are at the early part of his career and those of King Conan – at the later part. But the middle part – the various tales of his being a pirate, brigand, and mercenary at various locations around the world – are more difficult to arrange in a neat order. While the earliest (Miller/Clark) timeline had at least partial endorsement from Howard, the addition of stories discovered and published after Howard's death in 1936 are more difficult to place. Fragments and synopses that were never completed are even more problematic and some contain what appear to be internal inconsistencies.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] Conan the Rogue  Conan the Rogue is a fantasy novel by American writer John Maddox Roberts, featuring Robert E. Howard's sword and sorcery hero Conan the Barbarian. It was first published in trade paperback by Tor Books in November 1991; a regular paperback edition followed from the same publisher in August 1992, and was reprinted in January 1999.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] Leonard Carpenter  Leonard Paul Carpenter (born February 6, 1948) is an American writer of fantasy and science fiction. He writes as Leonard Carpenter and Leonard P. Carpenter.
Who is the author of Conan, Lord of the Black River? [SEP] Robert E. Howard  Robert Ervin Howard (January 22, 1906June 11, 1936) was an American writer. He wrote pulp fiction in a diverse range of genres. He is well known for his character Conan the Barbarian and is regarded as the father of the sword and sorcery subgenre.  Howard was born and raised in Texas. He spent most of his life in the town of Cross Plains, with some time spent in nearby Brownwood. A bookish and intellectual child, he was also a fan of boxing and spent some time in his late teens bodybuilding, eventually taking up amateur boxing. From the age of nine he dreamed of becoming a writer of adventure fiction but did not have real success until he was 23. Thereafter, until his death by suicide at age 30, Howard's writings were published in a wide selection of magazines, journals, and newspapers, and he became proficient in several subgenres. His greatest success occurred after his death.  Although a Conan novel was nearly published in 1934, Howard's stories were never collected during his lifetime. The main outlet for his stories was "Weird Tales", where Howard created Conan the Barbarian. With Conan and his other heroes, Howard helped fashion the genre now known as sword and sorcery, spawning many imitators and giving him a large influence in the fantasy field. Howard remains a highly read author, with his best works still reprinted, and is one of the best-selling fantasy writers of all time.  Howard's suicide and the circumstances surrounding it have led to speculation about his mental health. His mother had been ill with tuberculosis her entire life, and upon learning she had entered a coma from which she was not expected to wake, he walked out to his car and shot himself in the head.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP]  Robert Lester Stallman was an American literary critic, English professor and science fiction writer, author of the Book of the Beast trilogy. He wrote under the name of Robert L. Stallman in his academic writings, and Robert Stallman for his fiction.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP]  In September 2009, The Daily Beast launched a publishing initiative entitled "Beast Books" that will produce books by Beast writers on an accelerated publishing schedule. The first book published by Beast Books was John Avlon's Wingnuts: How the Lunatic Fringe is Hijacking America. In January 2011, they published Stephen L. Carter's The Violence of Peace: America's Wars in the Age of Obama. Also in 2011, Beast Books published Nobel Peace Prize winner Leymah Gbowee's memoir, Mighty Be Our Powers.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP]  Stallman's literary reputation is founded on his Book of the Beast trilogy, written late in life and published in part posthumously. According to Peter Nicholls the work is "an engrossing series" of "complex, sensitively written Fabulations, fitting between the generic borders of sf and Horror, and update the myth of the Werewolf with [an] sf premise." He finds the final volume "awkwardly structured," however, judging it "needed a auctorial revision which it could not be given" due to Stallman's premature death.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP]  Beast is a 1991 novel by Peter Benchley, the author of Jaws.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP]  Alexander Starritt (born 1985) is a Scottish-German novelist, journalist and entrepreneur. Starritt was educated at Somerville College, Oxford. He came to public attention in 2017 with the release of his novel The Beast. He was also one of the founding team on the policy platform Apolitical, which in 2018 was listed by US business magazine Fast Company as one of the World's Most Innovative Companies. Starritt has published several translations from German, including works by Stefan Zweig and Arthur Schnitzler.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP] Beast (Benchley novel)  Beast is a 1991 novel by Peter Benchley, the author of "Jaws".
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP] Beauty and the Beast  Beauty and the Beast () is a fairy tale written by French novelist Gabrielle-Suzanne Barbot de Villeneuve and published in 1740 in "La Jeune Américaine et les contes marins" ("The Young American and Marine Tales"). Her lengthy version was abridged, rewritten, and published by French novelist Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont in 1756 in "Magasin des enfants" ("Children's Collection") to produce the version most commonly retold. Later, Andrew Lang retold the story in "Blue Fairy Book", a part of the "Fairy Book" series, in 1889. The fairy tale was influenced by Ancient Greek stories such as "Cupid and Psyche" from "The Golden Ass", written by Lucius Apuleius Madaurensis in the second century AD, and "The Pig King", an Italian fairytale published by Giovanni Francesco Straparola in "The Facetious Nights of Straparola" around 1550.  Variants of the tale are known across Europe. In France, for example, "Zémire and Azor" is an operatic version of the story, written by Marmontel and composed by Grétry in 1771, which had enormous success into the 19th century. "Zémire and Azor" is based on the second version of the tale. "Amour pour amour" ("Love for love"), by Pierre-Claude Nivelle de La Chaussée, is a 1742 play based on de Villeneuve's version. According to researchers at universities in Durham and Lisbon, the story originated about 4,000 years ago.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP] Beast Quest  Beast Quest is a best-selling series of children's fantasy/adventure novels produced by Working Partners Ltd and written by several authors all using the house name Adam Blade. An editorial team at Working Partners first creates the storyline for each book and "then approach[es] a number of writers whose experience and style we think might suit the project and ask them to write a sample – usually the first three chapters of the book...” The editorial team picks the sample with the voice that we think works best for the project." The main series had achieved 140 books published by mid-2022. 20 million copies of the books have been sold to date.  The series is published by Orchard Books in the UK and by Scholastic Corporation in the US and is aimed largely at boys aged 7 and over. The novels have been described as "clearly and simply written, [striking] the right balance between adventure and story telling" and a "great series to get kiddies, who normally wouldn't be, interested in reading." The books take place in a world called Avantia, and focus on a young boy named Tom and his friend Elenna as they attempt to restore peace to the land by stopping beasts from causing destruction. Kathryn Flett, writing in London's "The Observer", has called the books "almost certainly a work of publishing (if not quite literary) genius... "Narnia" meets Pokémon via "Potter"." The books are among the most-borrowed from UK lending libraries. There is also a companion science fiction series called "Sea Quest".  There is also a 2015 mobile video game based on the book, and a 2018 version for Xbox One, Nintendo Switch and PS4 (Maximum Games). A new mobile version was released in May 2020 by Animoca.
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP] The Daily Beast  The Daily Beast is an American news website focused on politics, media, and pop culture. It was founded in 2008.  It has been characterized as a "high-end tabloid" by Noah Shachtman, the site's editor-in-chief from 2018 to 2021. In a 2015 interview, former editor-in-chief John Avlon described the "Beast"s editorial approach: "We seek out scoops, scandals, and stories about secret worlds; we love confronting bullies, bigots, and hypocrites." In 2018, Avlon described the "Beast"s "strike zone" as "politics, pop culture, and power".
Who is the author of Beast? [SEP] Beauty and the Beast (2017 film)  Beauty and the Beast is a 2017 American musical romantic fantasy film directed by Bill Condon from a screenplay by Stephen Chbosky and Evan Spiliotopoulos. Co-produced by Walt Disney Pictures and Mandeville Films, the film is a live action adaptation of Disney's 1991 animated film of the same name, itself an adaptation of Jeanne-Marie Leprince de Beaumont's 1756 version of the fairy tale. Led by Emma Watson and Dan Stevens as the eponymous Belle and the Beast, the film features an ensemble and choir cast including Luke Evans, Kevin Kline, Josh Gad, Ewan McGregor, Stanley Tucci, Audra McDonald, Gugu Mbatha-Raw, Ian McKellen, and Emma Thompson.  A live-action "Beauty and the Beast" remake was first announced in April 2014, with Condon hired to direct it; Watson, Stevens, Evans, and the rest of the cast signed on between January and April 2015. Filming took place primarily at Shepperton Studios in England from May to August 2015. With an estimated budget of around $255million, it is one of the most expensive films ever made.  "Beauty and the Beast" premiered at Spencer House in London on February 23, 2017, and was theatrically released in the United States in standard, Disney Digital 3-D, RealD 3D, IMAX, and IMAX 3D formats, along with Dolby Cinema on March 17, 2017. The film received generally positive reviews from critics, with many praising its faithfulness to the original animated film, as well as elements from the Broadway musical, performances of the cast (particularly Watson and Stevens), visual style, musical score, songs, costume design, and production values, though there was criticism for some of the character designs and its excessive similarity to the original.<ref name="BeautyandtheBeastReview" /><ref name="BeautyandtheBeastCriticReview" /> It grossed over $1.2billion worldwide, becoming the highest-grossing live-action musical film, making it the second-highest-grossing film of 2017 (after ""), and the tenth-highest-grossing film of all time. The film received several accolades, including two nominations at the 90th Academy Awards, four nominations at the 23rd Critics' Choice Awards, and two nominations at the 71st British Academy Film Awards. A spin-off television series, "Little Town", was in development, but has been postponed indefinitely.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]  The Corridor is a chamber opera composed by Harrison Birtwistle to an English language libretto by David Harsent. It premiered at the Aldeburgh Festival on 12 June 2009. The title refers to the corridor through which Orpheus and Eurydice passed as he was leading her from the underworld.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]  Science fiction author Joe Haldeman, who teaches writing at MIT, discusses the Infinite Corridor in his 2007 novel The Accidental Time Machine.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]  The Black Corridor is a science fiction novel by Michael Moorcock. It was published in 1969, first by Ace Books in the US, as part of their Ace Science Fiction Specials series, and later by Mayflower Books in the UK. It is essentially a novel about the decay of society and the deep personal and social isolation this has caused, and tells of a man fleeing through interstellar space from Earth, where civilisation is collapsing into anarchy and wars. The author uses techniques ranging from straight narrative to entries in the spaceship's log, dream sequences and sixties-style computer printouts.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]  Corridor is an Indian graphic novel, written and illustrated by Sarnath Banerjee, set in contemporary Delhi. A shop owner by the name of Jehangir Rangoonwalla interacts with other residents of Delhi that all visit his shop.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]  Rose founded Corridor Title in October 2010.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP] Corridors of Power (novel)  Corridors of Power is the ninth book in C. P. Snow's "Strangers and Brothers" series. Its title had become a household phrase referring to the centres of government and power after Snow coined it in his earlier novel, "Homecomings". (A slightly rueful Foreword to "Corridors of Power" expresses the hope that he is at least entitled to use his own cliché.)
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP] Corridor Digital  Corridor Digital is an American production studio based in Los Angeles, known for creating pop-culture-related viral online short-form videos since 2010, as well as producing and directing the "Battlefield"-inspired web series "Rush" and the YouTube Premium series "Lifeline". It has also created television commercials for various companies, including Machine Zone and Google.  Corridor Digital has nine full-time employees (January 2019), including founders Sam Gorski and Niko Pueringer. As of September 2022, the channel has 9.67 million subscribers and has won awards at several Streamys, including the "Visual and Special Effects Award" in 2017. Its second channel, Corridor Crew, consists of behind-the-scenes content, including the popular series "VFX Artists React" and "VFX Artist Reveals", the latter of which is hosted by Wren Weichman. The channel has 5.84 million subscribers as of September 2022.  On August 11, 2022, the channel was hacked by a crypto scam, and terminated by YouTube. However, the channel and its content were later restored.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP] The Black Corridor  The Black Corridor is a science fiction novel by Michael Moorcock. It was published in 1969, first by Ace Books in the US, as part of their Ace Science Fiction Specials series, and later by Mayflower Books in the UK.  It is essentially a novel about the decay of society and the deep personal and social isolation this has caused, and tells of a man fleeing through interstellar space from Earth, where civilisation is collapsing into anarchy and wars. The author uses techniques ranging from straight narrative to entries in the spaceship's log, dream sequences and sixties-style computer printouts.
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP]
Who is the author of Corridor? [SEP] The Corridors of Time  The Corridors of Time is a science fiction novel by the American writer Poul Anderson that was first published in 1965 as a serial in "Amazing Stories" May–June 1965 and as a book by Doubleday.
Who is the author of Non? [SEP] Fiction ; Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction Non-fiction
Who is the author of Non? [SEP]  as Müntzer and certain mystics who skirted heresy. When all is said and done, is non-philosophy anything other than the chance for an effective utopia?" Numbered amongst the early members or sympathizers of sans-philosophie ("without philosophy") are those included in a collection published in 2005 by L’Harmattan: François Laruelle, Jason Barker, Ray Brassier, Laurent Carraz, Hugues Choplin, Jacques Colette, Nathalie Depraz, Oliver Feltham, Gilles Grelet, Jean-Pierre Faye, Gilbert Hottois, Jean-Luc Rannou, Pierre A. Riffard, Sandrine Roux and Jordanco Sekulovski. Since then, a slew of translations and new introductions have appeared from John Ó Maoilearca (Mullarkey), Anthony Paul Smith, Rocco Gangle, Katerina Kolozova, and Alexander Galloway.
Who is the author of Non? [SEP]  Nonconformity: Writing on Writing is a book-length essay by Nelson Algren, intended for publication in 1953 but released posthumously in 1996 by Seven Stories Press. Kurt Vonnegut called it, "A handbook for tough, truth-telling outsiders who are proud, as was Algren, to damn well stay that way."
Who is the author of Non? [SEP]  Hyeonjeong non (English: Exposition of the Correct) was an essay written at the beginning of the Joseon period, defending Buddhism against the attacks of a rising antagonistic Neo-Confucian movement. It was written in a single fascicle, by the Korean Buddhist monk Gihwa (1376-1433).
Who is the author of Non? [SEP]  Darwish denies that she is the author of an essay entitled "Joys of Muslim Women" attributed to her in a chain email which began to circulate on the internet in 2009.
Who is the author of Non? [SEP]
Who is the author of Non? [SEP] List of non-fiction writers  The term non-fiction writer covers vast fields. This list includes those with a Wikipedia page who had non-fiction works published.
Who is the author of Non? [SEP] The Death of the Author  "The Death of the Author" (French: "La mort de l'auteur") is a 1967 essay by the French literary critic and theorist Roland Barthes (1915–1980). Barthes's essay argues against traditional literary criticism's practice of relying on the intentions and biography of an author to definitively explain the "ultimate meaning" of a text. Instead, the essay emphasizes the primacy of each individual reader's interpretation of the work over any "definitive" meaning intended by the author, a process in which subtle or unnoticed characteristics may be drawn out for new insight. The essay's first English-language publication was in the American journal "Aspen", no. 5–6 in 1967; the French debut was in the magazine "Manteia", no. 5 (1968). The essay later appeared in an anthology of Barthes's essays, "Image-Music-Text" (1977), a book that also included his "From Work to Text".
Who is the author of Non? [SEP] Non Sequitur (comic strip)  Non Sequitur is a comic strip created by Wiley Miller (credited mononymously as Wiley) starting February 16, 1992 and syndicated by Andrews McMeel Syndication to over 700 newspapers. It is also published on gocomics.com and distributed via email.  Translated from Latin as "it does not follow", "Non Sequitur" is often political and satirical, though other times, purely comedic.  The strip has undergone many changes through its history. Originally, the comic was a single panel gag cartoon, similar to Gary Larson's "The Far Side". It grew more political (from a moderately liberal perspective) in tone during the 1990s, to the point where it often became a borderline editorial cartoon. Today, the comic has become more traditional, sometimes using a multi-panel format and recurring characters. The horizontal daily strip is sometimes used as a single panel. The Sunday strip is vertical.  "Non Sequitur" has been honored with four National Cartoonists Society Awards, including the Newspaper Panel Cartoon Award for 1995, 1996 and 1998, and the Newspaper Panels Award for 2002. It is the only comic strip to win in its first year of syndication and the only title to ever win both the best comic strip and best comic panel categories.
Who is the author of Non? [SEP] List of non-binary writers  This is a list of notable non-binary writers, or writers who are genderqueer, agender, bigender, genderfluid, non-binary gender or third gender.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP]  The Book of Everything (Dutch: Het boek van alle dingen) is a children's novel by Dutch author Guus Kuijer, published in 2004 by Querido. The book was awarded the Gouden Griffel literary award in 2005. The English translation was published in 2006.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP]  Everything, Everything is the debut young adult novel by Jamaican-American author Nicola Yoon, first published by Delacorte Books for Young Readers in 2015. The novel centers on 18-year-old Madeline Whittier, who is being treated for severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), also known as "bubble baby disease". Due to this, Madeline is kept inside her house in Los Angeles, where she lives with her mother, a doctor.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP]  Is This Anything? is a 2020 book written by Jerry Seinfeld. The book is a collection of Seinfeld's comedic writings over the span of his 45-year career and compiles some of his best jokes. The title is based on the main question a comedian asks when they are testing out new material. The book scored a spot on the New York Times Best Seller list.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Everything (Live) (1996)
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP]  The book won the 2013 Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Everything, Everything (novel)  Everything, Everything is the debut young adult novel by Jamaican-American author Nicola Yoon, first published by Delacorte Books for Young Readers in 2015. The novel centers on 18-year-old Madeline Whittier, who is being treated for severe combined immunodeficiency (SCID), also known as "bubble baby disease". Due to this, Madeline is kept inside her house in Los Angeles, where she lives with her mother, a doctor.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Jonathan Safran Foer  Jonathan Safran Foer (; born February 21, 1977) is an American novelist. He is known for his novels "Everything Is Illuminated" (2002), "Extremely Loud & Incredibly Close" (2005), "Here I Am" (2016), and for his non-fiction works "Eating Animals" (2009) and "We Are the Weather: Saving the Planet Begins at Breakfast" (2019). He teaches creative writing at New York University.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Everything Is Illuminated  Everything Is Illuminated is the first novel by the American writer Jonathan Safran Foer, published in 2002. It was adapted into a film of the same name starring Elijah Wood and Eugene Hütz in 2005.  The book's writing and structure received critical acclaim for the manner in which it switches between two stories, both of which are autobiographical. One of them is the fictionalized history of the eradicated town of Trochenbrod (Trachimbrod), a real exclusively Jewish shtetl in Poland before the Holocaust where the author's grandfather was born; while the second narrative encompasses Foer's trip to Ukraine in search of the remnants and memories of Trachimbrod as well as the author's writing-in-progress.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Emile, or On Education  Emile, or On Education () is a treatise on the nature of education and on the nature of man written by Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who considered it to be the "best and most important" of all his writings. Due to a section of the book entitled "Profession of Faith of the Savoyard Vicar", "Emile" was banned in Paris and Geneva and was publicly burned in 1762, the year of its first publication. During the French Revolution, "Emile" served as the inspiration for what became a new national system of education.
Who is the author of Everything? [SEP] Everything Everywhere All at Once  Everything Everywhere All at Once is a 2022 American absurdist comedy-drama film written and directed by Daniel Kwan and Daniel Scheinert (collectively known as "Daniels"), who produced it with Anthony and Joe Russo. The plot centers on a Chinese-American immigrant (played by Michelle Yeoh) who, while being audited by the IRS, discovers that she must connect with parallel universe versions of herself to prevent a powerful being from destroying the multiverse. Stephanie Hsu, Ke Huy Quan, Jenny Slate, Harry Shum Jr., James Hong, and Jamie Lee Curtis appear in supporting roles. "The New York Times" called the film a "swirl of genre anarchy" with elements of surreal comedy, science fiction, fantasy, martial arts films, and animation.  Kwan and Scheinert had researched the concept of the multiverse as far back as 2010, and began penning the screenplay by 2016. Originally written for Jackie Chan, the lead role was later reworked and offered to Yeoh.<ref name="NYT Sway 2022" /><ref name="Bergeson 2022" /> Principal photography ran from January to March 2020. The film's soundtrack features music composed by Son Lux, including collaborations with musicians Mitski, David Byrne, André 3000, and Randy Newman.  "Everything Everywhere All at Once" premiered at South by Southwest on March 11, 2022, and began a limited theatrical release in the United States on March 25, 2022, before a wide release by A24 on April 8, 2022. It grossed over $103 million worldwide, becoming A24's first film to cross the $100 million mark and surpassing "Hereditary" (2018) as its highest-grossing film.  Considered by many to be the best movie of 2022, the film has received near-universal acclaim for its imagination, visual effects, costume design, humor, direction, editing, and handling of themes such as existentialism, generational trauma, nihilism, absurdism, and Asian-American identity. The performances of Yeoh, Quan, Hsu, and Curtis have also been universally lauded, with many critics and fans alike calling them among the best of the year. The National Board of Review and the American Film Institute named it one of the top ten films of 2022. The film received six nominations at the 80th Golden Globe Awards, including Best Motion Picture - Musical or Comedy and Best Director, and a leading 14 nominations at the 28th Critics' Choice Awards, including Best Picture.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]  Find Me is a 2019 novel by writer André Aciman. The novel follows the lives of Samuel "Sami" Perlman, his son Elio Perlman, and Oliver, characters established in Aciman's 2007 novel Call Me By Your Name.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]  Find Me was met with mixed reviews from literary critics, with review aggregator Book Marks reporting five negative and six mixed reviews among 26 total.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]  Hillary Carlip (born October 20, 1956) is an American author and visual artist, whose work has been featured in a museum show alongside Andy Warhol and Damien Hirst. Her latest release, Find Me I’m Yours, is an interactive, multi-platform entertainment experience conceived, designed and written by Carlip, and co-created, directed, and produced by Maxine Lapiduss.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]  ME: A Novel of Self-Discovery is a novel written by science fiction author Thomas Thurston Thomas. It was published in 1991 by Baen Books. It details the creation and development of ME (Multiple Entity), an Artificial Intelligence developed by Pinocchio Inc., an Artificial Intelligence design firm in San Francisco. ME is a more complex AI than previous types as it has autonomy and skepticism. It has been created to steal data from other computers and systems (without their owners finding out). The book is a First-person narrative concerning ME's development and its view of the world from its unique perspective.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]  Lapiduss is the co-founder and CEO of Storyverse Studios, an entertainment company founded in Los Angeles in 2014. Storyverse develops and produces story-driven properties within a multi-platform universe of entertainment. Their first property, Find Me I'm Yours, launched on November 3, 2014, and begins as a media rich ebook, written and designed by writer/artist/web innovator, Hillary Carlip, and published by Rosetta Books. The romantic comedy novel is filled with hand-written lists, Instagram-style photos, videos and links to its 33 original websites, and five web series all created as part of this Click Lit experience.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP] Find Me (novel)  Find Me is a 2019 novel by writer André Aciman. The novel follows the lives of Samuel "Sami" Perlman, his son Elio Perlman, and Oliver, characters established in Aciman's 2007 novel "Call Me By Your Name".
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP] Stand by Me (film)  Stand by Me is a 1986 American coming-of-age drama film directed by Rob Reiner. It is based on Stephen King's 1982 novella "The Body", and the title derives from the song by Ben E. King. Wil Wheaton, River Phoenix, Corey Feldman, and Jerry O'Connell star as four boys who, in 1959, go on a hike to find the dead body of a missing boy.  "Stand by Me" was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Adapted Screenplay and for two Golden Globe Awards: one for Best Drama Motion Picture and one for Best Director.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP]
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP] Call Me by Your Name (novel)  Call Me by Your Name is a 2007 coming-of-age novel by American writer André Aciman that centers on a blossoming romantic relationship between an intellectually precocious, curious, and pretentious 17-year-old American-Italian Jewish boy named Elio Perlman and a visiting 24-year-old American Jewish scholar named Oliver in 1980s Italy. The novel chronicles their summer romance and the 20 years that follow. A sequel to the novel, "Find Me", was released in October 2019.
Who is the author of Find Me? [SEP] Tahereh Mafi  Tahereh Mafi (November 9, 1988) is an American author based in Santa Monica, California. She is known for writing young adult fiction.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP]  The Partner (1997) is a legal/thriller novel by American author John Grisham. It was Grisham's eighth novel.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP]  Rosenberg is co-editor with Laura Feder of the addiction textbook, Behavioral Addictions (2014), and he is the author of two trade books, Infidelity (2018) and Bedlam (2019), which was written with Jessica DuLong.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP]  The Tennis Partner is the second of Abraham Verghese's books. Published in 1999, when he was a physician practicing internal medicine in El Paso, Texas, this is an autobiographical memoir, and Abraham Verghese writes of his experience moving to El Paso in the midst of an unraveling marriage. Once there, he meets and eventually becomes a mentor to David Smith, a medical resident at the hospital where Verghese worked and a brilliant tennis player recovering from drug addiction. Because of his own love for the game and as part of his effort to reach out to the troubled resident, Verghese begins to play singles tennis regularly during their free time outside
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP]  Couples is a 1968 novel by American author John Updike.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] Editor Author Co-author
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] Elizabeth Gilbert  Elizabeth Gilbert (born July 18, 1969) is an American journalist and author. She is best known for her 2006 memoir, "Eat, Pray, Love", which has sold over 12 million copies and has been translated into over 30 languages. The book was also made into a film of the same name in 2010.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] The Partner (Grisham novel)  The Partner (1997) is a legal/thriller novel by American author John Grisham. It was Grisham's eighth novel.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] Helen Wan  Helen Catherine Wan (born January 29, 1973) is a Taiwanese-American novelist and lawyer. She is the author of the 2013 novel "The Partner Track", the story of a young Chinese-American woman poised to become the first minority female partner at a powerful, prestigious corporate law firm and the basis for the 2022 series "Partner Track".
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] Jack Dunphy  John Paul Dunphy (August 22, 1914 – April 26, 1992) was an American novelist and playwright, and partner of American author Truman Capote.
Who is the author of Partner? [SEP] Tove Jansson  Tove Marika Jansson (; 9 August 1914 – 27 June 2001) was a Swedish-speaking Finnish author, novelist, painter, illustrator and comic strip author. Brought up by artistic parents, Jansson studied art from 1930 to 1938 in Stockholm, Helsinki and Paris. Her first solo art exhibition was in 1943. At the same time, she was writing short stories and articles for publication, as well as creating the graphics for book covers and other purposes. She continued to work as an artist and a writer for the rest of her life.  Jansson wrote the "Moomin" books for children, starting in 1945 with "The Moomins and the Great Flood". The next two books, "Comet in Moominland" and "Finn Family Moomintroll", published in 1946 and 1948 respectively, were highly successful in sales, adding to sales of the first book. For her work as a children's writer she received the Hans Christian Andersen Medal in 1966.<ref name=andersen/><ref name=ibby-jansson/> The Moomins also spun off to a comic strip, initially created by Jansson herself, and in 2016 Jansson was included in The Will Eisner Award Hall of Fame.  Starting with the semi-autobiographical ("Sculptor's Daughter") in 1968, Jansson wrote six novels, including the admired ("The Summer Book"), and five books of short stories for adults.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP]  Balls! is a humorous factbook about the history of "a host of spheroids (and one notable ellipse) that make the sporting world go round" (Bulletin of the Center for Children’s Books, qtd. in ). Balls! has been positively reviewed by the National Center for the Study of Children's Literature, the Midwest Book Review, and several other sources. It has also been named a Junior Library Guild Premier Selection.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP]  A Dream of John Ball (1888) is a novel by English author William Morris about the Great Revolt of 1381, conventionally called "the Peasants' Revolt". It features the rebel priest John Ball, who was accused of being a Lollard. He is famed for his question "When Adam delved and Eve span, who was then the gentleman?"
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP]  Ball Four is a book written by former Major League Baseball pitcher Jim Bouton (1939-2019) in 1970. The book is a diary of Bouton's 1969 season, spent with the Seattle Pilots and then the Houston Astros following a late-season trade. In it, Bouton also recounts much of his baseball career, spent mainly with the New York Yankees. Despite its controversy at the time, with baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn's attempts to discredit it and label it as detrimental to the sport, it is considered to be one of the most important sports books ever written and the only sports-themed book to make the New York Public Library's 1996 list of Books of the Century. It also is listed in Time magazine's 100 greatest non-fiction books of all time.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP]  The Ball of Fortune is a 1925 sports mystery novel by the British writer Sydney Horler, a prolific author. As with many other of his novels during the decade it was serialised by the News of the World.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] Catherine Ball, known as the Baroness de Calabrella (c. 1788–1856), British writer and newspaper owner ; Clifford Ball, author ; David W. Ball (born 1949), American novelist ; Donna Ball (born 1951), writer ; Edward Ball (American author) (born 1959) ; Franklin R. Ball (born 1931), American author and adventurer ; Hugo Ball (1886–1927), German author and poet ; Isabel Worrell Ball (1855–1931), American journalist and editor ; John Ball (Puritan) (1585–1640), English author and scholar ; John Ball (pioneer) (1794–1884), American explorer ; John Ball (novelist) (1911–1988), American novelist ; Phil Ball (writer) (born 1957), British writer based in Spain ; Philip Ball (born 1962), English science writer ; Samuel Ball (educator) (1935–2009), Australian education researcher
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] Edward Ball (American author)  Edward Ball is an American author who has written multiple works on topics such as history and biography. He is best known for works that explore the complex past of his family, these family members were major rice planters and slaveholders in South Carolina for nearly 300 years. One of his more well known works is based around an African-American family, descended from one member of this family and an enslaved woman, whose members became successful artists and musicians in the Jazz Age.  The Ball Family Slaveholder Index (BFSI) reports that between 1698 and 1865, six generations of the Ball family "owned more than twenty rice plantations in Lowcountry South Carolina and enslaved nearly 4,000 Africans and African Americans."  His books include "Slaves in the Family" (1998), which won a National Book Award. In "Slaves in the Family", he described his great-great grandfather, Isaac Ball (1785-1825), a fifth generation member of the Ball family of slaveholders, who inherited the Comingtee plantation, near Charleston and owned 571 enslaved people.  He was also recognized for his "Life of a Klansman: A Family History in White Supremacy" (2020). In the "Life of a Klansman: A Family History in White Supremacy", he told about his maternal great-great-grandfather, Constant Lecorgne (1832 -n.d. ). At one time, he was officially classified as "colored", which denoted that he was a mulatto or a mixed race person at the time. Having European ancestors, he changed his name and passed as white. He became an "embittered racist."
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] Margaret Ball (writer)  Margaret Elizabeth Ball (born November 7, 1947) is an American author of science fiction, fantasy, and historical novels. Under the pseudonym of Catherine Lyndell, she has also written romance. Ball has a B.A. in mathematics and a Ph.D. in linguistics from the University of Texas. A former Fulbright scholar and UCLA professor, she devotes her time to fabric arts and embeadery. Married with two children, she lives in Austin, Texas.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] Brian N. Ball  Brian N. Ball (19 June 1932 - 23 July 2020) was an English author of speculative fiction, known mainly for his three series "Timepiece", "Probability Man", and "Jackson", as well as numerous standalone novels. In all, he authored some 90 novels.   Ball attended Chester College from 1953 to 1955, received a BA from London University in 1960, and then an MA from Sheffield University in 1968. His degree was in theology, though he was an atheist.  Ball became a senior lecturer at Dorchester College of Education in 1965, and was a visiting member of the University of British Columbia. His death, in July 2020, was after a long illness.<ref name=":0" />
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] John Ball (novelist)  John Dudley Ball Jr. (July 8, 1911 – October 15, 1988) was an American writer best known for mystery novels involving the African-American police detective Virgil Tibbs. Tibbs was introduced in the 1965 novel "In the Heat of the Night", which won the Edgar Award for Best First Novel from the Mystery Writers of America and was made into an Oscar-winning film of the same name, starring Sidney Poitier and Rod Steiger.
Who is the author of The Ball? [SEP] Ball Four  Ball Four is a book written by former Major League Baseball pitcher Jim Bouton (1939-2019) in 1970. The book is a diary of Bouton's 1969 season, spent with the Seattle Pilots and then the Houston Astros following a late-season trade. In it, Bouton also recounts much of his baseball career, spent mainly with the New York Yankees.  Despite its controversy at the time, with baseball commissioner Bowie Kuhn's attempts to discredit it and label it as detrimental to the sport, it is considered to be one of the most important sports books ever written<ref name="lithub"/> and the only sports-themed book to make the New York Public Library's 1996 list of "Books of the Century". It also is listed in "Time" magazine's 100 greatest non-fiction books of all time.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP]  On Suicide: With Particular Reference to Suicide Among Young Students is a 1967 English translation and editing by the psychanalyst and suicidologist Paul Friedman of the original "Über den Selbstmord insbesondere den Schüler-Selbstmord" by the Vienna Psychoanalytic Society. The original piece was published in 1910 in German and includes psychoanalytic discussions from eight members of the society about the causes and explanations for the suicide of students. The eight members are Sigmund Freud, Alfred Adler, Josef Karl Friedjung, Carl Furtmüller (pseudonym: Karl Monitor), David Ernst Oppenheim, Rudolf Reitler, J. Isidor Sadger and Wilhelm Stekel. The translation by Friedman was a project of the Library Committee of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute to give non-German speakers access to the historical document.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP]  due to its unconventional format; at 1,905 pages, spanning topics concerning (and not limited to) human nature, society, religion, technology, and science, the suicide "note" was more akin to a grand philosophical tome. Heisman published his book, Suicide Note, online for free download within a day of finally shooting himself on the Harvard University campus. ; Rudolf Hess—Nazi war criminal who committed suicide in Spandau Prison. "Thanks to the directors for addressing this message to my home. Written several minutes before my death." ; Abbie Hoffman—American political activist (de facto leader of the 1960s counter-culture) and author of Steal This Book, who
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP]  Suicide is a short novel by Édouard Levé noted for its precise language and seemingly random structure meant to imitate human memory. An excerpt of Suicide titled Life in Three Houses appeared in the April 2011 issue of Harper's.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP]  Brunstrin Klomek is assistant editor of the Archives of Suicide Research, as well as on the editorial boards of the Journal of Youth and Adolescence and Lancet Psychiatry.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP]  In the foreword written by Paul Friedman, the author stresses the historical significance of the document as it was one of the last meetings of the society. Giving an illustration of the Zeitgeist of 1910 he describes an "epidemic" of suicides among young students, partly due to the book The Sorrows of Young Werther written by Goethe. Furthermore, the author displays the time before 1900 as a deterministic philosophy where human behavior was attributed to outer abiding causes and was rationalized. According to Friedman, in the realm of psychiatry suicide was associated with mental disorders, caused by predisposing factors such as heredity. The
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP] Suicide (Durkheim book)  Suicide: A Study in Sociology () is an 1897 book written by French sociologist Émile Durkheim. It was the first methodological study of a social fact in the context of society. It is ostensibly a case study of suicide, a publication unique for its time that provided an example of what the sociological monograph should look like.  According to Durkheim,
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP] Suicide (novel)  Suicide is a short novel by Édouard Levé noted for its precise language and seemingly random structure meant to imitate human memory.   An excerpt of "Suicide" titled "Life in Three Houses" appeared in the April 2011 issue of "Harper's". Section::::Plot. The work's prose is a second person narration detailing disconnected episodes about "you", the narrator's friend that committed suicide some twenty years before. The descriptions are never more than a few paragraphs long. They culminate and characterize "you".  After the main body of the work (the prose), there are pages of verse that "your wife" found in "your desk drawer". They are written in first person with the word "me" ending almost every line of each tercet in the English translation.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP] Sylvia Plath  Sylvia Plath (; October 27, 1932 – February 11, 1963) was an American poet, novelist, and short story writer. She is credited with advancing the genre of confessional poetry and is best known for two of her published collections, "The Colossus and Other Poems" (1960) and "Ariel" (1965), as well as "The Bell Jar", a semi-autobiographical novel published shortly before her death in 1963. "The Collected Poems" was published in 1981, which included previously unpublished works. For this collection Plath was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in Poetry in 1982, making her the fourth to receive this honour posthumously.  Born in Boston, Massachusetts, Plath graduated from Smith College in Massachusetts and the University of Cambridge, England, where she was a student at Newnham College. She married fellow poet Ted Hughes in 1956, and they lived together in the United States and then in England. Their relationship was tumultuous and, in her letters, Plath alleges abuse at his hands. They had two children before separating in 1962.  Plath was clinically depressed for most of her adult life, and was treated multiple times with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT). She killed herself in 1963.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP] Yukio Mishima  , born , was a Japanese author, poet, playwright, actor, model, Shintoist, nationalist, and founder of the , an unarmed civilian militia. Mishima is considered one of the most important Japanese authors of the 20th century. He was considered for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1968, but the award went to his countryman and benefactor Yasunari Kawabata. His works include the novels and , and the autobiographical essay . Mishima's work is characterized by "its luxurious vocabulary and decadent metaphors, its fusion of traditional Japanese and modern Western literary styles, and its obsessive assertions of the unity of beauty, eroticism and death", according to author Andrew Rankin.   Mishima's political activities made him a controversial figure, which he remains in modern Japan. From his mid-30s, Mishima's right-wing ideology was increasingly revealed. He was proud of the traditional culture and spirit of Japan, and opposed what he saw as western-style materialism, along with , globalism, and communism, worrying that by embracing these ideas the Japanese people would lose their "national essence" ("kokutai") and their distinctive cultural heritage (Shinto and Yamato-damashii) to become a "rootless" people. Mishima formed the Tatenokai for the avowed purpose of restoring sacredness and dignity to the Emperor of Japan.<ref name="nibun" /><ref name="eiyo" /><ref name="waga"/> On 25 November 1970, Mishima and four members of his militia entered a military base in central Tokyo, took its commandant hostage, and unsuccessfully tried to inspire the Japan Self-Defense Forces to rise up and overthrow Japan's 1947 Constitution (which he called "a constitution of defeat").<ref name="waga"/><ref name="mondai" /> After his speech and screaming of "Long live the Emperor!", he committed seppuku.
Who is the author of Suicide? [SEP] Iris Chang  Iris Shun-Ru Chang (March 28, 1968November 9, 2004) was a Chinese American journalist, author of historical books and political activist. She is best known for her best-selling 1997 account of the Nanking Massacre, "The Rape of Nanking", and in 2003, "The Chinese in America: A Narrative History". Chang is the subject of the 2007 biography "Finding Iris Chang", and the 2007 documentary film "Iris Chang: The Rape of Nanking" starring Olivia Cheng as Iris Chang. The independent 2007 documentary film "Nanking" was based on her work and dedicated to her memory.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP]  Wittus Witt (born 1949) is a German magician, author and publisher.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP]  John Fabian Witt is Allen H. Duffy Class of 1960 Professor of Law at Yale Law School. He is the author of Lincoln’s Code: The Laws of War in American History, which won the 2013 Bancroft Prize in history of the Americas and, in 2020, American Contagions: Epidemics and the Law from Smallpox to COVID-19.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP]  Treasury under presidents James Garfield, Chester Arthur and Benjamin Harrison; the actor William Windom's character of "Glen Morley" in The Farmer's Daughter television series (1963) was also a congressman from Minnesota ; Gregg L. Witt, is an American author, youth brand strategist, speaker, and former professional skateboarder. Witt is known for his youth marketing strategies, keynote talks, seminars, and business book, The Gen Z Frequency published by Kogan Page. In 2016 he was named a top 5 youth marketer to follow by Inc. Magazine and in 2017 he made the Forbes list of leading Generation Z experts. ; Cat Zingano, mixed martial artist ; Eugenia Wheeler Goff (1844-1922), historian, cartographer, educator, and author
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP]  Otto Witt (1875–1923) was a Swedish author. He was one of the prominent figures in early Swedish science fiction. He did, among other things, publish Hugin, a science magazine which was filled "with speculativearticles and fiction". Hugin was one of the first magazines to regularly carry science fiction in the world, although it appears to have had little influence outside Sweden.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP]  Gregg L. Witt (born Gregg Lee Witt; March 6, 1974) is an American author, youth brand strategist, speaker, and entrepreneur. Witt is known for his youth marketing strategies, keynote talks, seminars, and co-authored the youth marketing book, The Gen Z Frequency published by Kogan Page with Derek E. Baird. In 2016 he was named a top 5 youth marketer to follow by Inc. Magazine and in 2017 he made the Forbes list of leading Generation Z experts.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP] Emily Witt  Emily Witt is an American investigative journalist based in Brooklyn with a particular focus on modern dating from the feminine perspective.<ref name="twsNYT1"/>
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP] Carolinda Witt  Carolinda Witt (born 1955 in Kenya) is an author, former commercial hot-air balloon pilot and competitor. She is also a teacher and expert on The Five Tibetans, an ancient yoga methodology originally described by Peter Kelder in his book "The Eye Of Revelation." Her step-by-step method of learning the Rites has made these five ancient movements more accessible to a broader range of practitioners.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP] Shirley Hill Witt  Shirley Hill Witt (born April 17, 1934) She obtained her Ph.D. in evolutionary anthropology from the University of New Mexico in 1969. Witt has published extensively on Native Americans in addition to being a poet and fiction writer. She was a founding member of the National Indian Youth Council.<ref name=":0" />
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP] John Witt  John Witt (born August 25, 1969 in Elmhurst, Illinois) is an American baseball collector. He claims to have caught over 5,000 baseballs at professional baseball games over the past 40 years. Witt is also an author, baseball columnist and actor.
Who is the author of Witt? [SEP] Henriette Guizot de Witt  Henriette Guizot de Witt (August 6, 1829 in Paris – 1908 in Paris) was a French writer who wrote under the name Mme de Witt, née Guizot.
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP]  On the Road is a 1957 novel by American writer Jack Kerouac, based on the travels of Kerouac and his friends across the United States. It is considered a defining work of the postwar Beat and Counterculture generations, with its protagonists living life against a backdrop of jazz, poetry, and drug use. The novel is a roman à clef, with many key figures of the Beat movement, such as William S. Burroughs (Old Bull Lee), Allen Ginsberg (Carlo Marx), and Neal Cassady (Dean Moriarty) represented by characters in the book, including Kerouac himself as the narrator Sal Paradise. The idea for On the Road, Kerouac's second novel, was formed during the
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP]  original manuscript titled On the Road: The Original Scroll (August 16, 2007), corresponding with the 50th anniversary of original publication. This version has been transcribed and edited by English academic and novelist Dr. Howard Cunnell. As well as containing material that was excised from the original draft due to its explicit nature, the scroll version also uses the real names of the protagonists, so Dean Moriarty becomes Neal Cassady and Carlo Marx becomes Allen Ginsberg, etc. In 2007, Gabriel Anctil, a journalist of Montreal daily Le Devoir, discovered in Kerouac's personal archives in New York almost 200 pages of his writings entirely
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP]  Thomas Pynchon describes On the Road as "one of the great American novels". On the Road has been the object of critical study since its publication. David Brooks of The New York Times compiled several opinions and summarized them in an Op-Ed from October 2, 2007. Whereas Millstein saw it as a story in which the heroes took pleasure in everything, George Mouratidis, an editor of a new edition, claimed "above all else, the story is about loss." "It's a book about death and the search for something meaningful to hold on to—the famous search for 'IT,' a truth larger than the self, which, of
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP]  out on an American road trip in the 1970s with Kerouac's book as a guide. It would be hard to imagine Hunter S. Thompson's road novel Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas had On the Road not laid down the template; likewise, films such as Easy Rider, Paris, Texas, and even Thelma and Louise." In his book Light My Fire: My Life with The Doors, Ray Manzarek (keyboard player of The Doors) wrote "I suppose if Jack Kerouac had never written On the Road, The Doors would never have existed." On the Road influenced an entire generation of musicians, poets, and writers including Allen Ginsberg.
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP]  The Road is a 2006 post-apocalyptic novel by American writer Cormac McCarthy. The book details the grueling journey of a father and his young son over a period of several months across a landscape blasted by an unspecified cataclysm that has destroyed industrial civilization and almost all life. The novel was awarded the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Fiction in 2006. The book was adapted into a film of the same name in 2009, directed by John Hillcoat.
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP] The Road  The Road is a 2006 post-apocalyptic novel by American writer Cormac McCarthy. The book details the grueling journey of a father and his young son over a period of several months across a landscape blasted by an unspecified cataclysm that has destroyed industrial civilization and almost all life. The novel was awarded the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Fiction in 2006. The book was adapted into a film of the same name in 2009, directed by John Hillcoat.
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP] On the Road  On the Road is a 1957 novel by American writer Jack Kerouac, based on the travels of Kerouac and his friends across the United States. It is considered a defining work of the postwar Beat and Counterculture generations, with its protagonists living life against a backdrop of jazz, poetry, and drug use. The novel is a roman à clef, with many key figures of the Beat movement, such as William S. Burroughs (Old Bull Lee), Allen Ginsberg (Carlo Marx), and Neal Cassady (Dean Moriarty) represented by characters in the book, including Kerouac himself as the narrator Sal Paradise.  The idea for "On the Road", Kerouac's second novel, was formed during the late 1940s in a series of notebooks, and then typed out on a continuous reel of paper during three weeks in April 1951. It was published by Viking Press in 1957.  "The New York Times" hailed the book's appearance as "the most beautifully executed, the clearest and the most important utterance yet made by the generation Kerouac himself named years ago as 'beat,' and whose principal avatar he is."
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP] Cormac McCarthy  Cormac McCarthy (born Charles Joseph McCarthy Jr., July 20, 1933) is an American writer who has written twelve novels, two plays, five screenplays and three short stories, spanning the Western and post-apocalyptic genres. He is known for his graphic depictions of violence and his unique writing style, recognizable by a sparse use of punctuation and attribution. McCarthy is widely regarded as one of the greatest contemporary American writers.  McCarthy was born in Providence, Rhode Island, although he was raised primarily in Tennessee. In 1951, he enrolled in the University of Tennessee, but dropped out to join the US Air Force. His debut novel, "The Orchard Keeper", was published in 1965. Awarded literary grants, McCarthy was able to travel to southern Europe, where he wrote his second novel, "Outer Dark" (1968). "Suttree" (1979), like his other early novels, received generally positive reviews, but was not a commercial success. A MacArthur Fellowship enabled him to travel to the American Southwest, where he researched and wrote his fifth novel, "Blood Meridian" (1985). Although it garnered a lukewarm critical and commercial reception, it has since been regarded as his magnum opus, with some labeling it the Great American Novel.  McCarthy first experienced widespread success with "All the Pretty Horses" (1992), for which he received both the National Book Award and the National Book Critics Circle Award. It was followed by "The Crossing" (1994) and "Cities of the Plain" (1998), completing the Border Trilogy. His 2005 novel "No Country for Old Men" received mixed reviews. His 2006 novel "The Road" won the 2007 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for Fiction. Many of McCarthy's works have been adapted into film. "No Country for Old Men" was adapted into a 2007 film, winning four Academy Awards, including Best Picture. "All the Pretty Horses", "The Road", and "Child of God" have also been adapted into films, while "Outer Dark" was turned into a 15-minute short. McCarthy had a play adapted into a 2011 film, "The Sunset Limited".  McCarthy works with the Santa Fe Institute (SFI), a multidisciplinary research center. At the SFI, he published the essay "The Kekulé Problem" (2017), which explores the human unconscious and the origin of language. He was elected to the American Philosophical Society in 2012. His most recent novels, "The Passenger" and "Stella Maris", were published on October 25, 2022, and December 6, 2022, respectively.
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP] The Road Ahead (Gates book)  The Road Ahead is a book written by Bill Gates, co-founder and previous chairman and CEO of Microsoft software company, together with Microsoft executive Nathan Myhrvold and former Microsoft vice president and Pulitzer Prize winner Peter Rinearson. Published in November 1995, then substantially revised about a year later, "The Road Ahead" summarized the implications of the personal computing revolution and described a future profoundly changed by the arrival of a global information superhighway.  Gates received a $2.5-million advance for his book and money from subsidiary rights sales;
Who is the author of On the Road? [SEP] The Silk Roads  The Silk Roads: A New History of the World is a 2015 non-fiction book written by Peter Frankopan, a historian at the University of Oxford. An illustrated abridged edition was illustrated by Neil Packer. The full text is divided into 25 chapters. The author combines the development of the world with the Silk Road, describing religion, war, wealth, and peace on the Silk Road.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]  Outing (sometimes titled The Outing Magazine) was a late 19th- and early 20th-century American magazine covering a variety of sporting activities. It began publication in 1882 as the Wheelman "an illustrated magazine of cycling literature and news" and had four title changes before ceasing publication in 1923. It was based in Boston. Samuel McClure edited the Wheelman for Colonel Albert Pope, Pope Manufacturing Company for bicycles for two years. Bicycling was the first outdoor sport to seize the Americans. Suddenly bicycling was all the rage. In 1884 it was called Outing and the Wheelman: An Illustrated Monthly Magazine of Recreation. Thomas Stevens (cyclist) became a "special correspondent" that year. The magazine first published Jack London's novel White Fang in serial form. Frederic Remington submitted commissioned drawings of the Old West. Outing Publishing Company published Westerns, romances, and outdoor books. It was active in book publishing from 1905 to 1918, when the book list was sold to Macmillan.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]  The Outing is a 1987 American supernatural slasher film directed by Tom Daley, and starring Deborah Winters, James Huston, Andra St. Ivanyi, Scott Bankston, and Red Mitchell. It follows a group of teenagers spending the night in a natural history museum who are stalked by the spirit of a malevolent jinn released from an ancient lamp. The film was originally released in the United Kingdom as The Lamp on April 28, 1987, though it was released as The Outing for in the United States on September 11 of the same year with about 2 minutes of cuts, along with a different opening score. The film was shot on location in Houston and Galveston, Texas, as well as Los Angeles.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]  Excursions is an 1863 anthology of several essays by American transcendentalist Henry David Thoreau. The anthology contains an introduction entitled "Biographical Sketch" in which fellow transcendentalist Ralph Waldo Emerson provides a description of Thoreau. The book, other than R. W. Emerson's biography of Thoreau, contains nine of Thoreau's essays: Natural History of Massachusetts, A Walk to Wachusett, The Landlord, A Winter Walk, The Succession of Forest Trees, Walking, Autumnal Tints, Wild Apples, and Night and Moonlight.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]  Signorile has been considered a pioneer of outing (though he believes the discussion has often been distorted by the media, and he opposes using a violent, active verb to define the phenomenon). Signorile has argued in favor of outing from a journalistic perspective, calling for the "equalization" of reporting on gay and straight public figures. He has argued that the homosexuality of public figures—and only public figures—should be reported on when relevant. Signorile was a co-founding editor of the gay magazine OutWeek, which launched in June 1989, and which was quickly at the center of heated debates inside and outside the gay community, including controversies over outing. Signorile became the features
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]  expedition. The Lure of the Labrador Wild was a best seller, and The Long Labrador Trail did well too, and so Wallace began a new career as a professional writer. He joined the staff of Outing magazine, which sent him on other expeditions around the world. Over the next 30 years he published 26 more books, fiction and non-fiction, and wrote many articles for Outing, National Sportsman, American Boy and other magazines. His books included biographies, references, boys fiction, novels and travel accounts. In 1913, Wallace mounted a third Labrador expedition with the primary purpose of installing a memorial tablet at Leonidas Hubbard's place
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP] The Bottle Factory Outing  The Bottle Factory Outing is a 1974 novel by English writer Beryl Bainbridge. It was shortlisted for the Booker Prize that year, won the Guardian Fiction Prize and is regarded as one of her best. It is also listed as one of the 100 greatest novels of all time by Robert McCrum of "The Observer". The book was inspired by Beryl Bainbridge's own experiences working as a cellar girl in a bottling factory after her divorce in 1959.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP] The Outing  "The Outing" is the 57th episode of the sitcom "Seinfeld". First aired on February 11, 1993, it is the 17th episode of the fourth season. In this episode, a reporter publicly "outs" Jerry and George as a homosexual couple, and they struggle to convince the rest of the world of their heterosexuality. The line "... not that there's anything wrong with that"—as a reference to homosexuality—has become a popular catchphrase among fans.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP] Family Outing  Family Outing (; also known as Family Outing Season 1) was a South Korean comedy-variety show; part of SBS's "Good Sunday" lineup, along with "Gold Miss is Coming" (골드미스가 간다). It first aired on June 15, 2008, and was one of the top rated programs on Sunday Korean television. Each week, the cast members referred to as "Family" travelled to different locations in South Korea to stay for a single night. During their stay the Family would play games and complete tasks set by the owners of the home, while the owners are out on vacation.  The game-variety show format of Family Outing has widely been considered to be influenced by its predecessor, X-Man with both programs sharing key production and cast members, the most notable of which being Main Producer Jang Hyuk-jae, MC Yoo Jae-suk and cast member Kim Jong-kook. Trademarks of the production included sound effects, pop-up text and background music in accordance with the on-screen narrative. Music included personal theme songs for various cast members, frequently coordinated with moments of lament or foolishness for comedic effect, or schadenfreude.  The first season ended on February 14, 2010, and a 17 episode second season featuring a brand new cast and production team aired from 21 February 2010 to July 11, 2010.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP] Michelangelo Signorile  Michelangelo Signorile (; born December 19, 1960) is an American journalist, author and talk radio host. His radio program is aired each weekday across the United States and Canada on Sirius XM Radio and globally online. Signorile was editor-at-large for HuffPost from 2011 until 2019. Signorile is a political liberal, and covers a wide variety of political and cultural issues.  Signorile is noted for his various books and articles on gay and lesbian politics, and is an outspoken supporter of gay rights. Signorile's seminal 1993 book "Queer in America: Sex, The Media, and the Closets of Power" explored the negative effects of the LGBT closet, and provided one of the first intellectual justifications for the practice of outing public officials, influencing the debate and treatment of the issue among journalists from that point on. In 1992 "Newsweek" listed him as one of America's "100 Cultural Elite," and he is included as #100 in the 2002 book, "The Gay 100: A Ranking of the Most Influential Gay Men and Lesbians, Past and Present".  In August 2011, Signorile was inducted into the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association LGBT Journalist Hall of Fame. In November 2012, Signorile was included in the "Out" magazine annual Out 100. In April 2015, Signorile's fifth book, "It's Not Over: Getting Beyond Tolerance, Defeating Homophobia and Winning True Equality", was published.
Who is the author of The Outing? [SEP]
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]  him, took care of him, dressed him, comforted him, and scolded him. Many times, more than Marie Antoinette, she was a true mother for him'." Some have suggested that Axel von Fersen, who was romantically linked with Marie Antoinette, was the father of her son. The fact that Louis Charles was born exactly nine months after he returned to court was noted, but this theory was debunked by most scholars, who reject it, observing that the time of his conception corresponded perfectly in the time that Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette had spent a lot of time together. Marie Antoinette, who gained
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]  preserve Byzantine territory in southern Italy. The question of whether the betrothal was ever followed up by an actual marriage is still a matter of some controversy. Louis fathered a son called Charles-Constantine, who would become Count of Vienne. Charles' mother is not named in any sources. There has been modern speculation, proposed by Previté-Orton and championed by Christian Settipani, that she was Anna, the daughter of Leo VI and Zoe Zaoutzaina, based both upon the documented betrothal, as well on the onomastic evidence, stating that Charles-Constantine's name points to a Byzantine mother. Shaun Tougher doubts they were ever married. Detractors of the theory point out that when Anna was born, however,
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]  Louis was born in Arsy (Oise) on 3 September 1864. Her father was a manual laborer and her mother came from a farmworking background. Louis's mother died on her first birthday and her father, who remarried, also died before she was seven; at which point, she came under the charge of her eldest sister. She first worked as a shepherdess but, by 1881, she was engaged as a domestic worker at the convent of the Sisters of Providence in Clermont, Oise. Beginning in 1901, she was employed as a housekeeper for middle-class families in the town of Senlis.
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]  Marie-Thérèse Bourgeois Chouteau (January 14, 1733 – August 14, 1814) was the matriarch of the Chouteau fur trading family which established communities throughout the Midwest. She is considered the "Mother" of St. Louis, and was influential in its founding and development, in essence, helping lead to its becoming an important American town and the Gateway to the West.
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]  In 1971 she was Countess Eguzon in La Belle Aventure, participated in Le Mouton enragé by Michel Deville, played the role of Nicole Leguen, wife of Jean Gabin in Verdict (1974) by André Cayatte, and the mother of Claude Jade in Les Robots pensants (1976). Again with Claude Jade, she was Mamie Rose (1976), the "grand-mère au pair" in the film by Pierre Goutas, her greatest role. It is followed by her Catherine in Un crime de notre temps (1977) by Gabriel Axel. Claude Lelouch engaged her in 1996 for the role of Clara Blanc, mother of Bernard Tapie, in Hommes, femmes, mode d'emploi. In Aïe (2000), she is the mother of André Dussollier, and in Valérie Lemercier's comedy Palais Royal (2005) she plays the queen mother. She was Margueritte ("with two ts") alongside Gérard Depardieu in Jean Becker's My Afternoons with Margueritte (2010).
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP] Anne of Austria  Anne of Austria (, ; 22 September 1601 – 20 January 1666) was an infanta of Spain who became Queen of France as the wife of King Louis XIII from their marriage in 1615 until Louis XIII died in 1643. She was also Queen of Navarre until that kingdom was annexed into the French crown in 1620. After her husband's death, Anne was regent to her son Louis XIV, during his minority, until 1651. During her regency, Cardinal Mazarin served as France's chief minister. Accounts of French court life of Anne's era emphasize her difficult marital relations with her husband, her closeness to her son, and her disapproval of her son's marital infidelity to her niece and daughter-in-law Maria Theresa.
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP] Mother Mary Louis  Mother Mary Louis, CSJ born Mary Ann Crummey (March 12, 1848 – May 22, 1932) was general superior of the Congregation of the Sisters of St. Joseph of Brentwood, New York, from 1892 to 1932. She was a driving force for education and healthcare in the City of New York as well as the counties of Long Island. She founded 32 elementary and secondary schools, two colleges, and two hospitals.
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP]
Who is the mother of Louis? [SEP] Louis XIII  Louis XIII (; sometimes called the Just; 27 September 1601 – 14 May 1643) was King of France from 1610 until his death in 1643 and King of Navarre (as Louis II) from 1610 to 1620, when the crown of Navarre was merged with the French crown.  Shortly before his ninth birthday, Louis became king of France and Navarre after his father Henry IV was assassinated. His mother, Marie de' Medici, acted as regent during his minority. Mismanagement of the kingdom and ceaseless political intrigues by Marie and her Italian favourites led the young king to take power in 1617 by exiling his mother and executing her followers, including Concino Concini, the most influential Italian at the French court.  Louis XIII, taciturn and suspicious, relied heavily on his chief ministers, first Charles d'Albert, duc de Luynes and then Cardinal Richelieu, to govern the Kingdom of France. The King and the Cardinal are remembered for establishing the "Académie française", and ending the revolt of the French nobility. They systematically destroyed the castles of defiant lords, and denounced the use of private violence (dueling, carrying weapons, and maintaining private armies). By the end of the 1620s, Richelieu had established "the royal monopoly of force" as the ruling doctrine. His reign was also marked by the struggles against the Huguenots and Habsburg Spain.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP]  Ungheni County (Județul Ungheni) was a county of Moldova from 1998 to 2003. Its population in 2003 was 260,300. Its capital was Ungheni. It was bordered by the Moldovan counties of Bălți, Orhei, Chişinău, and Lăpușna, and with Romania to the west.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP] 🇷🇴 – Consulate
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP]  Ungheni is a municipality in Moldova. With a population of 35,157, it is the seventh largest town in Moldova and the seat of Ungheni District. There is a bridge across the Prut and a border checkpoint to Romania. There is another border town with the same name in Romania (Ungheni, Iași), on the other side of the Prut River.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP] Republic of Moldova to the east - Ungheni District. ; Neamț County to the west. ; Botoșani County and Suceava County to the northwest. ; Vaslui County to the south.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP]  is occupied by the Russian Empire at this time (1812–1917), has an intense russification of the native population. In 1876–1877 is built spotted Prut between Ungheni (Moldova) and common Ungheni (Romania) Eiffel Bridge, designed by Gustave Eiffel, the creator of the Eiffel Tower in Paris, Gustave Eiffel in this period, visit Ungheni. In 1918 after the collapse of the Russian Empire, Basarabia joins the motherland Romania, in this period (1918–1940, 1941–1944) is part of the Iasi County. In 1940 after Molotov-Ribbentrop Treaty, Bessarabia is occupied by the USSR. In 1991 as a result of the proclamation of Independence of Moldova, part and residence of the Ungheni County (1991–2003), and in 2003 became administrative unit of Moldova.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP] Ungheni County  Ungheni County () was a county of Moldova from 1998 to 2003. Its population in 2003 was 260,300. Its capital was Ungheni.  It was bordered by the Moldovan counties of Bălți, Orhei, Chişinău, and Lăpușna, and with Romania to the west.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP]
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP] Ungheni District  Ungheni () is a district () in the central part of Moldova, bordering Romania, with the administrative center at Ungheni. The other major city is Corneşti. As of 1 January 2011, its population was 117,400.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP] Ungheni  Ungheni () is a municipality in Moldova. With a population of 35,157, it is the seventh largest town in Moldova and the seat of Ungheni District.  There is a bridge across the Prut and a border checkpoint to Romania. There is another border town with the same name in Romania (Ungheni, Iași), on the other side of the Prut River.
What is the capital of Ungheni County? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]  Secemin is a village in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Secemin. It lies historic Lesser Poland, approximately 14 km south-west of Włoszczowa and 57 km west of the regional capital Kielce. The village has a population of 1,600, and used to be a town from 1401 to 1869. Its name comes from the local swamps, called sece.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]  Międzylesie is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Secemin, within Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north of Secemin, 10 km south-west of Włoszczowa, and 55 km west of the regional capital Kielce. The village has a population of 82.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]  to Jan Samuel Czarnocki (Lis coat of arms), the husband of Zofia Szafraniec. The Czarnockis owned the town until 1788, building here a manor house, which was demolished in the 1970s. Until the Partitions of Poland, Secemin belonged to Sandomierz Voivodeship. From 1815 to 1915, it was part of Russian-controlled Congress Poland, and in 1821, its population was 833, with 110 houses, most of which were made of timber. In 1862, the town almost completely burned in a great fire, and after the January Uprising, Russian government reduced Secemin to the status of a village. In the Second Polish Republic, Secemin belonged to Kielce Voivodeship.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]  Zwlecza is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Secemin, within Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km south-west of Secemin, 17 km south-west of Włoszczowa, and 59 km west of the regional capital Kielce. The village has a population of 80.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]  Gródek is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Secemin, within Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP] Secemin  Secemin is a village in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Secemin. It lies historic Lesser Poland, approximately south-west of Włoszczowa and west of the regional capital Kielce. The village has a population of 1,600, and used to be a town from 1401 to 1869. Its name comes from the local swamps, called sece.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP] Gmina Secemin  Gmina Secemin is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Włoszczowa County, Świętokrzyskie Voivodeship, in south-central Poland. Its seat is the village of Secemin, which lies approximately south-west of Włoszczowa and west of the regional capital Kielce.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 5,171.
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Secemin? [SEP]
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]  Yungay is located in the Callejón de Huaylas on Río Santa at an elevation of approximately 2,500 meters, 450 km north of Lima, the country's capital. East of the small town are the mountain ridges of snow-covered Cordillera Blanca, with Huascarán, Peru's highest mountain, no more than 15 km east of Yungay. Yungay is the capital of Yungay Province, as well as the main town in the Yungay District. While the town counts approximately 10,000 inhabitants (2010 projection based on 2007 census data ) Yungay Province has a population of 60,000 (2000 estimate). The Province of Yungay occupies part of the Callejón de Huaylas, the Conchucos Valley (Yanama), the coast of Ancash (Quillo) and the Huascarán National Park.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]  Yunyoo is the capital of the Yunyoo-Nasuan District in the North East Region of Ghana. The district was one of the new ones inaugurated on 15 March 2018 in Ghana. Yunyoo is linked by a road entering it from Bongpolugu in the east and running westwards and connecting to the N2 highway at its end. It is at an elevation of 252 metres. The nearest airport in Ghana is the Tamale Airport in the capital of the Northern Region. Nakpanduri is located to the north west, Nasuan to the west and Bunkpurugu to the east.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]  The Yungay Province is one of twenty provinces of the Ancash Region in Peru.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]  The people in the province are mainly indigenous citizens of Quechua descent. Quechua is the language which the majority of the population (73.19%) learnt to speak in childhood, 26.48  % of the residents started speaking using the Spanish language (2007 Peru Census).
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]  Yungay is divided into eight districts, which are:
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP] Yunguyo Province  Yunguyo Province is a province of the Puno Region in Peru. The capital of the province is the city of Yunguyo.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP] Yunguyo  Yunguyo is a town in the Puno Region in southeastern Peru. It is the capital of Yunguyo Province and Yunguyo District. It has a population of 12,625 (2008 estimate).  Yunguyo is located on a peninsula on the shores of Lake Titicaca. The border with Bolivia runs next to the town and a road connects it with the town of Copacabana located a few kilometers away on the Bolivian side of the peninsula.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP] Yunguyo District  Yunguyo District is one of seven districts of the province Yunguyo in Peru.
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]
What is the capital of Yunguyo Province? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP]  An area of both farming and light industry comprising a small suburban town and several hamlets situated along the banks of the Yèvre and the canal de Berry, immediately to the west of Bourges at the junction of the D104 with the D60 and the N76 with the D400 road.
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP]  Saint-Doulchard is a commune in the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region of France. It is on the outskirts of Bourges.
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP]  || align="right" | 268 || align="right" | 2640 || align="right" | 02752 ; Villers-Saint-Christophe || align="right" | 437 || align="right" | 2590 || align="right" | 02815 ; } Tugny-et-Pont || align="right" | 268 || align="right" | 2640 || align="right" | 02752 ; Villers-Saint-Christophe || align="right" | 437 || align="right" | 2590 || align="right" | 02815 ; } Villers-Saint-Christophe || align="right" | 437 || align="right" | 2590 || align="right" | 02815 ; } The canton of Saint-Simon is a former administrative division in northern France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It included the following communes:
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] 🇵🇱 Darłowo, Poland Saint-Doulchard is twinned with:
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] Saint-Étienne (partly)|| align="right" | 28 371|| align="right" | 42100 || align="right" | 42218 ; Villars || align="right" | 7 887 || align="right" | 42390 || align="right" | 42330 ; } Villars || align="right" | 7 887 || align="right" | 42390 || align="right" | 42330 ; } The canton of Saint-Étienne-4 (before 2015: Saint-Étienne-Nord-Ouest-1) is a French administrative division located in the department of Loire and the Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes region. It has the following communes:
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] Canton of Saint-Doulchard  The Canton of Saint-Doulchard is a canton situated in the Cher département and in the Centre-Val de Loire region of France. It has 15,095 inhabitants (2018).<ref name=pop2018/>
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] Saint-Doulchard  Saint-Doulchard () is a commune in the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region of France. It is on the outskirts of Bourges.
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] Arrondissement of Bourges  The arrondissement of Bourges is an arrondissement of France in the Cher department in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It has 128 communes.
What is the capital of canton of Saint-Doulchard? [SEP] Departmental Council of Cher  The Departmental Council of Cher () is the deliberative assembly of the Cher department in the region of Centre-Val de Loire. It consists of 38 members ("general councilors") from 19 cantons and its headquarters are in Bourges.  The President of the General Council is Jacques Fleury.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Castellane is an arrondissement of France in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. It has 41 communes. Its population is 11,403 (2016), and its area is 1718.1 km2.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] 1) Allons (04005) ; 2) Allos (04006) ; 3) Angles (04007) ; 4) Annot (04008) ; 5) Barrême (04022) ; 6) Beauvezer (04025) ; 7) Blieux (04030) ; 8) Braux (04032) ; 9) Castellane (04039) ; 10) Castellet-lès-Sausses (04042) ; 11) Chaudon-Norante (04055) ; 12) Clumanc (04059) ; 13) Colmars (04061) ; 14) Demandolx (04069) ; 15) Entrevaux (04076) ; 16) Le Fugeret (04090) ; 17) La Garde (04092) ; 18) Lambruisse (04099) ; 19) Méailles (04115) ; 20) Moriez (04133) ; 21) La Mure-Argens (04136) ; 22) La Palud-sur-Verdon (04144) ; 23) Peyroules (04148) ; 24) La Rochette (04170) ; 25) Rougon (04171) ; 26) Saint-André-les-Alpes (04173) ; 27) Saint-Benoît (04174) ; 28) Saint-Jacques (04180) ; 29) Saint-Julien-du-Verdon (04183) ; 30) Saint-Lions (04187) ; 31) Saint-Pierre (04194) ; 32) Sausses (04202) ; 33) Senez (04204) ; 34) Soleilhas (04210) ; 35) Tartonne (04214) ; 36) Thorame-Basse (04218) ; 37) Thorame-Haute (04219) ; 38) Ubraye (04224) ; 39) Val-de-Chalvagne (04043) ; 40) Vergons (04236) ; 41) Villars-Colmars (04240) The communes of the arrondissement of Castellane, and their INSEE codes, are:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] 1) Allos-Colmars ; 2) Annot ; 3) Castellane ; 4) Entrevaux ; 5) Saint-André-les-Alpes The arrondissement of Castellane was created in 1800, it was disbanded in 1926 and it was restored in 1942. At the January 2017 reorganization of the arrondissements of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence, it gained nine communes from the arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains. As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Castellane were, as of January 2015:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] nine communes from the arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains to the arrondissement of Castellane ; 16 communes from the arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains to the arrondissement of Forcalquier ; six communes from the arrondissement of Forcalquier to the arrondissement of Digne-les-Bains In 1800 the arrondissements of Digne, Barcelonnette, Castellane, Forcalquier and Sisteron were established. The arrondissements of Castellane and Sisteron were disbanded in 1926. Then, The arrondissement of Castellane was restored in 1942. The borders of the arrondissements of Alpes-de-Haute-Provence were modified in January 2017:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP]  The Place Castellane is a historic square in the 6th arrondissement of Marseille, Bouches-du-Rhône, France. It was built in 1774.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] Arrondissement of Castellane  The arrondissement of Castellane is an arrondissement of France in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region. It has 41 communes.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] La Castellane  La Castellane is a neighbourhood in the 15th arrondissement of Marseille, France. Built as a Modernist council estate in the 1960s for French refugees of the Algerian War of 1954–1962, it is now home to about 7,000 residents, many of whom are second-generation French citizens. The neighbourhood is plagued by unemployment, drug trafficking, prostitution and arms smuggling.   It is known for being the neighbourhood where the footballer Zinedine Zidane grew up.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] Castellane  Castellane (; Provençal: "Castelana") is a commune in the Alpes-de-Haute-Provence department in southeastern France. With about 1,600 inhabitants, Castellane has the distinction of being the least-populated sub-prefecture of France.  Its inhabitants are referred to as "Castellanais".
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Castellane? [SEP] Place Castellane  The Place Castellane is a historic square in the 6th arrondissement of Marseille, Bouches-du-Rhône, France. It was built in 1774.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]  The Sánchez Carrión Province is one of twelve provinces of the La Libertad Region in Peru. It is named in honour of José Faustino Sánchez Carrión. The capital of this province is the city of Huamachuco. About 30 miles away is Marcahuamachuco, a prehistoric political and religious centre of a culture that throve AD 350-1100.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP] Chugay ; Cochorco ; Curgos ; Huamachuco ; Marcabal ; Sanagorán ; Sarín ; Sartimbamba The province is divided into eight districts, which are:
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]  Cochorco District is one of eight districts of the province Sánchez Carrión in Peru.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]  Sánchez Ramírez is a province which constituting one of the 32 provinces of the Dominican Republic. It is divided into 4 municipalities and its capital city is Cotuí. Located in the Cibao Sur region in central Dominican Republic, it is bordered by the provinces of Duarte to the north, Monte Plata to the east and south, Monseñor Nouel to the south-west and west and La Vega to the north-west. It was formerly part of Duarte in 1952, and is named after Brigadier Juan Sánchez Ramírez, hero of the Battle of Palo Hincado (1808) at which Spanish rebels defeated the French occupying forces.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]  Marcabal District is one of eight districts of the province Sánchez Carrión in Peru.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP] Curgos District  Curgos District is one of eight districts of the province Sánchez Carrión in Peru.
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP]
What is the capital of Sánchez Carrión Province? [SEP] Huamachuco  Huamachuco (possibly from Quechua "waman", falcon or variable hawk, and Kulyi "chuco", earth or land, "land of falcons") is a town in northern Peru and capital of the province Sánchez Carrión in La Libertad Region. The city is the seat of the Territorial Prelature of Huamachuco. Lake Sausacocha lies to the northeast.  About 30 miles away, within the Huamachuco district, is the significant archeological site of Marcahuamachuco. It is a complex of monuments, a prehistoric political and religious center of a culture that thrived 350 CE-1100 CE. The ruins of a Wari city, Viracochapampa, are located 3.5 km north of Huamachuco. Additionally there are many other pre-Columbian ruins around the town.
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]  Chiprovtsi Municipality (Община Чипровци) is a small frontier municipality (obshtina) in Montana Province, Northwestern Bulgaria, located on the northern slopes of western Stara Planina mountain and the area of the so-called Fore-Balkan. It is named after its administrative centre - the town of Chiprovtsi. In the southwest, the municipality borders on Republic of Serbia. The area embraces a territory of 286.8 km² with a population of 3,657 inhabitants, as of February 2011.
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]  Chiprovtsi (Чипровци, pronounced ) is a small town in northwestern Bulgaria, administratively part of Montana Province. It lies on the shores of the river Ogosta in the western Balkan Mountains, very close to the Bulgarian-Serbian border. A town of about 2,000 inhabitants, Chiprovtsi is the administrative centre of Chiprovtsi Municipality that also covers nine nearby villages. Chiprovtsi is thought to have been founded in the Late Middle Ages as a mining and metalsmithing centre. Attracting German ore miners who introduced Roman Catholicism to the area, the town grew in importance as a cultural, economic and religious centre of the Bulgarian Catholics and the entire Bulgarian northwest during the first
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]  Chiprovtsi Municipality is located in the western part of Montana Province. The municipality has an area of 286.9 km2, which is 7.89% of the provinces' territory and 0.26% of that of Bulgaria. To the east, Chiprovtsi municipality borders Montana and Georgi Damyanovo municipalities of the same province; its southern neighbour is also Georgi Damyanovo. To the west are the Serbian border and Chuprene municipality of Vidin Province and to the north is Ruzhintsi municipality of Vidin Province. Besides the town, the municipality includes nine villages, namely Belimel, Chelyustnitsa, Gorna Kovachitsa, Gorna Luka, Martinovo, Mitrovtsi, Prevala, Ravna and Zhelezna. The town lies 155 km from the Bulgarian capital
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]  Chiprovtsi Municipality includes the following 10 places (towns are shown in bold):
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]  35 km from the provincial capital Montana, 44 km from Berkovitsa and 18 km from the national border of Bulgaria and Serbia; the nearest Serbian municipality is Surdulica. Chiprovtsi municipality falls in the humid continental climate climate zone, with a slight mountain influence. The average year-round temperature is 9.7 °C; the average monthly temperature is -1 to 0 C in January and 20 °C in July. The average yearly precipitation is 776–816 millimetres. The spring is short and rainy, while the summer is generally hot and dry. In the winter, the area is subject to a strong northeastern wind and a temperature inversion in the valleys. Of
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP] Chiprovtsi Municipality  Chiprovtsi Municipality () is a small frontier municipality ("obshtina") in Montana Province, Northwestern Bulgaria, located on the northern slopes of western Stara Planina mountain and the area of the so-called Fore-Balkan. It is named after its administrative centre - the town of Chiprovtsi. In the southwest, the municipality borders on Republic of Serbia.  The area embraces a territory of 286.8 km with a population of 3,657 inhabitants, as of February 2011.
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP] Chiprovtsi  Chiprovtsi (, pronounced ) is a small town in northwestern Bulgaria, administratively part of Montana Province. It lies on the shores of the river Ogosta in the western Balkan Mountains, very close to the Bulgarian-Serbian border. A town of about 2,000 inhabitants, Chiprovtsi is the administrative centre of Chiprovtsi Municipality that also covers nine nearby villages.  Chiprovtsi is thought to have been founded in the Late Middle Ages as a mining and metalsmithing centre. Attracting German ore miners who introduced Roman Catholicism to the area, the town grew in importance as a cultural, economic and religious centre of the Bulgarian Catholics and the entire Bulgarian northwest during the first few centuries of Ottoman rule. The apogee of this upsurge was the anti-Ottoman Chiprovtsi Uprising of 1688. After the suppression of the uprising, some of the town's population fled to Habsburg-ruled lands; those unable to flee were killed or enslaved by the Ottomans.  Deserted for about 30 years, the town was repopulated by Eastern Orthodox Bulgarians, beginning in the 1720s. It was following this new settlement that Chiprovtsi became a major centre of the Bulgarian carpet industry. Other traditional industries have been stock breeding, agriculture and fur trade. Today, Chiprovtsi municipality experiences a declining population and above-average unemployment. However, the development of alternative tourism help to sustain the economy.
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP] Montana Province  Montana Province (, transliterated: "Oblast Montana") is a province in northwestern Bulgaria, bordering Serbia in the southwest and Romania in the north. It spreads its area between the Danube river and the Balkan Mountains. As of February 2011, the province has a population of 148,098 inhabitants, on territory of . It was named after its administrative centre the city of Montana.
What is the capital of Chiprovtsi Municipality? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP] 1) Antibes (partly) ; 2) Biot The canton of Antibes-3 is an administrative division of the Alpes-Maritimes department, southeastern France. It was created at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its seat is in Antibes. It consists of the following communes:
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP] 1) Antibes (partly) The canton of Antibes-2 is an administrative division of the Alpes-Maritimes department, southeastern France. It was created at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its seat is in Antibes. It consists of the following communes:
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP] 1) Antibes (partly) ; 2) Vallauris The canton of Antibes-1 is an administrative division of the Alpes-Maritimes department, southeastern France. It was created at the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. Its seat is in Antibes. It consists of the following communes:
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]  Biot is located between Cannes and Nice on the border of the town of Antibes. Biot along with Antibes, Mougins, Valbonne and Vallauris make up the Sophia-Antipolis technopole.
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]  Biot (Biòt) is a small fortified medieval hilltop village in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur near Antibes, between Nice and Cannes. Many people come to Biot for its renowned cubist art museum of Fernand Leger as well as the winding cobbled lanes on the elevated fort. This stunning village that is now famous for its ceramics and glassblowing, dates back to prehistoric times. In 154 BC, for a long period of time, Celto-Ligurians ( the Oxybians and Deceates tribes) controlled the region. There was discord between the tribes and the town of Antipolis (Antibes), who then asked the Romans for help. Romans settled in Biot in 154 BC which they
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP] Canton of Antibes-Biot  The canton of Antibes-Biot is a former administrative division in Alpes-Maritimes, southeastern France. It was created on 31 January 1985. Its seat was in Antibes. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It had 38,899 inhabitants (2012). It included the following communes:<ref name=pop2012/>
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Antibes-Biot? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]  The canton is organised around Harnes in the arrondissement of Lens. The altitude varies from 20m (Estevelles) to 46m (Harnes) for an average altitude of 29m.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]  The canton of Harnes is a canton situated in the department of the Pas-de-Calais and in the Hauts-de-France region of northern France.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP] Billy-Montigny ; Bois-Bernard ; Fouquières-lès-Lens ; Harnes ; Noyelles-sous-Lens ; Rouvroy At the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015, the canton was expanded from 3 to 6 communes:
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]  In 1790 Asprières was the capital of a canton. In 1922 it lost its status as capital which was transferred to Capdenac-Gare.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]  As capital of the Canton, Baignes has a police station, a first aid station, and a post office.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP] Canton of Harnes  The canton of Harnes is a canton situated in the department of the Pas-de-Calais and in the Hauts-de-France region of northern France.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP] Harnes  Harnes () is a commune in the Pas-de-Calais department in the Hauts-de-France region of France.
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP] Canton of Noyelles-sous-Lens  The canton of Noyelles-sous-Lens is a former canton situated in the department of the Pas-de-Calais and in the Nord-Pas-de-Calais region of northern France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 3 communes, It had a total of 21,608 inhabitants (2012).
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Harnes? [SEP]
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP]  has 4 habitational centres: Espargos with the main urban and administrative centre and the international airport of Cape Verde, Santa Maria, where tourism and hotels are situated, Pedra de Lume, once the site of salt collection (hence the name of the island, "sal" is Portuguese for "salt"), and Palmeira, a fishing village with a port. The request for cooperation came from Sal itself. Basilio Ramos, then Mayor of Sal, sought to establish a link with a municipality in the vicinity of Leuven. As a former student of the K.U.Leuven he wanted to strengthen the ties with Belgium. This form of cooperation is different from the others.
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP] Cascais, Portugal ; 🇮🇹 Desenzano del Garda, Italy ; 🇮🇹 Grottammare, Italy ; 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿 South Normanton, England Sal is twinned with:
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP]  Salalah (صَلَالَة) is the capital and largest city of the southern Omani governorate of Dhofar. Its population in 2009 was about 197,169. Salalah is the third-largest city in the Sultanate of Oman, and the largest city in the Dhofar Province. Salalah is the birthplace of the former sultan, Qaboos bin Said. Salalah attracts many people from other parts of Oman and the Persian Gulf region during the monsoon/khareef season, which spans from June to September. The climate of the region and the monsoon allows the city to grow some vegetables and fruits like coconut and bananas. There are many gardens within the city where these vegetables and fruits grow.
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP]  Since 2016, the Movement for Democracy (MpD) is the ruling party of the municipality. The results of the latest elections, in 2016:
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP]  Sal (Portuguese for "salt") is an island in Cape Verde. Sal is a tourist destination with white sandy beaches and over 350 days of sunshine a year. It is one of the three sandy eastern islands of the Cape Verde archipelago in the central Atlantic Ocean, 350 mile off the west coast of Africa. Cabo Verde is known for year-round kiteboarding, for the large reserve of Caretta turtles which hatch from July to September, and the music of Cesaria Evora.
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP] Sal, Cape Verde  Sal (Portuguese for "salt") is an island in Cape Verde. Sal is a tourist destination with white sandy beaches and over 350 days of sunshine a year. It is one of the three sandy eastern islands of the Cape Verde archipelago in the central Atlantic Ocean, off the west coast of Africa. Cabo Verde is known for year-round kiteboarding, for the large reserve of Caretta turtles which hatch from July to September, and the music of Cesaria Evora.
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP]
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP] Sal Khan  Salman Amin Khan (born October 11, 1976), commonly known as Sal Khan, is an American educator and the founder of Khan Academy, a free online non-profit educational platform and an organization with which he has produced over 6,500 video lessons teaching a wide spectrum of academic subjects, originally focusing on mathematics and science. He is also the founder of Khan Lab School, a brick-and-mortar private school in Mountain View, California.  , the Khan Academy channel on YouTube has 7.62 million subscribers, and its videos have been viewed more than 1.97 billion times. In the same year, "Forbes" magazine featured Khan on its cover, with the story "$1 Trillion Opportunity."
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP] Santa Maria, Cape Verde  Santa Maria (Portuguese for Saint Mary) is a city in the southern part of the island municipality of Sal, Cape Verde. It is located on the south coast, about 16 km south of the Amílcar Cabral International Airport, and 20 km south of the island capital Espargos.
What is the capital of Sal? [SEP] Ixtapan de la Sal  Ixtapan de la Sal is a town and municipality located in the State of Mexico, Mexico. It is 60 km south of Toluca, the state's capital, and 120 km south of Mexico City by the Federal Road 55. The word "Ixtapan" comes from Nahuatl. There are two theories as to the origin of the name. The first one states that it is composed of , which means 'salt', and , which means 'over' or 'in'. The second one states that it comes from which means 'white'; which means 'water'; and which means 'in white waters'. The phrase is Spanish for 'of salt'.  There are two rivers in Ixtapan de la Sal. They are the Salado river from the east with a year-round current, and the Salitre river from the northwest with a seasonal current. An aqueduct also passes through the city. Most relevant to tourists is the carbonated water of La Laguna Verde, a spring which filters from the subsoil sprouting naturally in form of water eruptions.<ref name="EncMuc"/>  On January 22, 1981, Ixtapan de la Sal officially became a city. In 1996, it was integrated into the 100 Colonial Cities program, a tourist program collecting the oldest and most important Mexican cities in a list.<ref name="EncMuc"/>
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]  Karelichy District (Карэліцкі раён) is a district (rajon) in Grodno Region of Belarus. The administrative center is Karelichy.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]   Karelichy (Карэлічы, Kareličy; Коре́личи, Korelichi; Koreličiai; Korelicze; קארעליץ, Korelitz) is a town in the Grodno Region of Belarus, the administaritv centre of Karelichy District. The town was historically a center of a large Jewish community; its population in 1900 was 1,840.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]  Olonetsky District is the only district in the republic where Karelians form a majority of the population (63.4% in 1989). Natural population growth rate was -12.02 per 1,000 in 1994.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]  Vyborgsky District (Вы́боргский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the seventeen in Leningrad Oblast, Russia. It is located in the northwest of the oblast on the Karelian Isthmus and borders with Priozersky District in the northeast, Vsevolozhsky District in the east, Kurortny District of the federal city of St. Petersburg in the south, Kymenlaakso and South Karelia regions of Finland in the northwest, and Lakhdenpokhsky District of the Republic of Karelia in the north. From the southwest, the district is limited by the Gulf of Finland. The area of the district is 7475.472 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Vyborg. Population (excluding the administrative center): 113,748 (2002 Census);
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]  Podporozhsky District (Подпоро́жский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the seventeen in Leningrad Oblast, Russia. It is located in the northeast of the oblast and borders with Prionezhsky District of the Republic of Karelia in the north, Vytegorsky District of Vologda Oblast in the east, Babayevsky District of Vologda Oblast in the southeast, Tikhvinsky District in the south, Lodeynopolsky District in the southwest, and Olonetsky and Pryazhinsky Districts of the Republic of Karelia in the northwest. In the northeast, the district is bounded by Lake Onega. The area of the district is 7679 km2, which makes it the largest district in Leningrad Oblast. Its administrative center is the town of Podporozhye. Population (excluding the administrative center): 14,845 (2002 Census);
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP] Karelichy  Karelichy (; , ; ; ; , "Korelitz") is a town in the Grodno Region of Belarus and the administrative centre of Karelichy District.  The town was historically a center of a large Jewish community; its population in 1900 was 1,840.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP] Karelichy District  Karelichy District () is a district (rajon) in Grodno Region of Belarus.  The administrative center is Karelichy.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP] Mir Castle Complex  The Mir Castle Complex (, , ) is historic fortified castle and a UNESCO World Heritage Site in Belarus. It is located in the town of Mir, in the Kareličy District of Hrodna Voblaść, at , north-west of another World Heritage site, Niaśviž Castle. Mir Castle Complex is above sea level. Erected in the 16th century in the late Brick Gothic style, it is one of the few remaining architectural monuments of the former Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth in contemporary Belarus.
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Kareličy District? [SEP] List of Belarus-related topics  This is a list of topics related to Belarus. Those interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages by clicking on "Related changes" in the sidebar.
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]  Kambarsky District (Камба́рский райо́н; Камбарка ёрос) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-five in the Udmurt Republic, Russia. It is located in the southeast of the republic. The area of the district is 762.6 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Kambarka. Population: 21,243 (2002 Census);  The population of Kambarka accounts for 60.9% of the district's total population.
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]  Kambarka (Камбарка) is a town and the administrative center of Kambarsky District of the Udmurt Republic, Russia, located on the Kambarka River (Kama's basin), 116 km southeast of Izhevsk. Population:
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]  Within the framework of administrative divisions, Kambarka serves as the administrative center of Kambarsky District. As an administrative division, it is incorporated within Kambarsky District as the town of district significance of Kambarka. As a municipal division, the town of district significance of Kambarka is incorporated within Kambarsky Municipal District as Kambarskoye Urban Settlement.
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]  The economy of the district is mostly based on mining, reindeer husbandry, fishing, and hunting. There are deposits of diamonds in the district.
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP] Administrative centers are shown in bold
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP] Kambarsky District  Kambarsky District (; , "Kambarka joros") is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-five in the Udmurt Republic, Russia. It is located in the southeast of the republic. The area of the district is . Population: 21,243 (2002 Census); The population of Kambarka accounts for 60.9% of the district's total population.<ref name="2010Census" />
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP] Kambarsky  Kambarsky (masculine), Kambarskaya (feminine), or Kambarskoye (neuter) may refer to:
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP] Kambarka  Kambarka () is a town and the administrative center of Kambarsky District of the Udmurt Republic, Russia, located on the Kambarka River (Kama's basin), southeast of Izhevsk. Population:
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Kambarsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]  Brzeszcze (German: Brisk) is a town in Oświęcim County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship in southern Poland, near Oświęcim. , Brzeszcze has about 12,000 citizens. The history of the town dates back to the 15th century, and it was probably founded by Flemish settlers. Brzeszcze lies along regional roads nr. 933 and nr. 949, and its name comes from the brzost (Ulmus glabra) trees, which once were abundant in the Sola river valley. In the past the town was spelled Brzescie, Breszcze, Brescze, Brzeszce, and Brzesczye.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]  The economy of the town focuses on an anthracite coal mine "Brzeszcze-Silesia" which is the biggest employer in the region, and one of the biggest in the entire Voivodeship. In the Second Polish Republic, it was the only large coal mine which belonged to the Polish state. During the war, the mine was part of the Reichswerke Hermann Göring conglomerate, and inmates of the Jawischowitz were employed in it.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]  Brzeszczki Małe (Kleinbressen) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Rogowo, within Rypin County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland. It lies approximately 12 km south of Rypin and 55 km east of Toruń.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]  Brzeszcze lies in the Northern Carpathian Foothills, on the Vistula river, in western Lesser Poland. The town is part of the Upper Silesian Coal Basin. The distance to Kraków is 79 km, and the distance to Czech border crossing at Cieszyn, 50 km. The town has three rail stations – Brzeszcze, Brzeszcze-Kopalnia, and Brzeszcze-Jawiszowice. All three are located along rail line nr. 93, which goes from Trzebinia to Zebrzydowice.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]  Brzeszczyny (Schwillgarben) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Braniewo, within Braniewo County, Warmian-Masurian Voivodeship, in northern Poland, close to the border with the Kaliningrad Oblast of Russia. It lies approximately 8 km south-east of Braniewo and 72 km north-west of the regional capital Olsztyn. The village has a population of 270.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP] Gmina Brzeszcze  Gmina Brzeszcze is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Oświęcim County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland. Its seat is the town of Brzeszcze, which lies approximately south-west of Oświęcim and west of the regional capital Kraków.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 21,557, of which the population of Brzeszcze is 11,730, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 9,827.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP] Brzeszcze  Brzeszcze (German: "Brisk") is a town in Oświęcim County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship in southern Poland, near Oświęcim. As of December 2021, the town has a population of 10,935.<ref name = population /> The history of the town dates back to the 15th century, and it was probably founded by Flemish settlers. Brzeszcze lies along regional roads nr. 933 and nr. 949, and its name comes from the brzost (Ulmus glabra) trees, which once were abundant in the Sola river valley. In the past the town was spelled Brzescie, Breszcze, Brescze, Brzeszce, and Brzesczye.
What is the capital of Gmina Brzeszcze? [SEP]
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]  Tarussky District (Тарусский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-four in Kaluga Oblast, Russia. It is located in the east of the oblast. The area of the district is 714.6 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Tarusa. Population: 15,680 (2002 Census);  The population of Tarusa accounts for 63.3% of the district's total population.
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]  Tarumovsky District (Тару́мовский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the forty-one in the Republic of Dagestan, Russia. It is located in the north of the republic. The area of the district is 3020 km2. Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Tarumovka. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 31,683, with the population of Tarumovka accounting for 17.0% of that number.
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]  Within the framework of administrative divisions, Tarusa serves as the administrative center of Tarussky District, to which it is directly subordinated. As a municipal division, the town of Tarusa is incorporated within Tarussky Municipal District as Tarusa Urban Settlement.
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]  Tarbagataysky District (Тарбагата́йский райо́н; Тарбагатайн аймаг, Tarbagatain aimag) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-one in the Republic of Buryatia, Russia. It is located in the center of the republic. The area of the district is 3304 km2. Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Tarbagatay. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 16,476, with the population of Tarbagatay accounting for 26.2% of that number.
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]  Purovsky District (Пу́ровский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the seven in Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Okrug of Tyumen Oblast, Russia. It is located in the center and south of the autonomous okrug. The area of the district is 108400 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Tarko-Sale. Population: 51,280 (2010 Census); The population of Tarko-Sale accounts for 39.8% of the district's total population.
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP] Tarussky District  Tarussky District () is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-four in Kaluga Oblast, Russia. It is located in the east of the oblast. The area of the district is . Population: 15,680 (2002 Census); The population of Tarusa accounts for 59.7% of the district's total population.<ref name="2010Census" />
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP] Tarusa  Tarusa (), also known as Tarussa (), is a town and the administrative center of Tarussky District in Kaluga Oblast, Russia, located on the left bank of the Oka River, northeast of Kaluga, the administrative center of the oblast. Population:
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP] Tarusa (disambiguation)  Tarusa is a town in Tarussky District of Kaluga Oblast, Russia.  Tarusa may also refer to:
What is the capital of Tarussky District? [SEP] Isakovo, Russia  Isakovo () is the name of several rural localities in Russia.
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]  Kluszkowce is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czorsztyn, within Nowy Targ County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, close to the border with Slovakia. It lies approximately 3 km east of Maniowy, 21 km east of Nowy Targ, and 71 km south of the regional capital Kraków. The village has a population of 1,738.
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]  Czosnów is a village in Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Czosnów. It lies approximately 7 km southeast of Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki and 26 km northwest of Warsaw. The village has a population of 420.
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]  Gmina Wolsztyn is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Wolsztyn County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. Its seat is the town of Wolsztyn, which lies approximately 63 km south-west of the regional capital Poznań. The gmina covers an area of 249.64 km2, and as of 2006 its total population is 29,216 (out of which the population of Wolsztyn amounts to 13,557, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 15,659).
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]  Sromowce Wyżne is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czorsztyn, within Nowy Targ County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, close to the border with Slovakia. It lies approximately 8 km south-east of Maniowy, 25 km east of Nowy Targ, and 78 km south-east of the regional capital Kraków. The village has a population of 1,100.
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]  Huba is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Czorsztyn, within Nowy Targ County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, close to the border with Slovakia. It lies approximately 4 km north-west of Maniowy, 16 km east of Nowy Targ, and 68 km south of the regional capital Kraków. The village of Huba, Poland is one of the smallest Podhalanian villages. Her history dates back to the 17th century, with over 400 years of history and sixteen generations of residents. In 1869 the village was made up of 22 houses and 146 residence and by 1952 there were 30 houses. To read more about Huba, read Publisher Janina Machon-Bartula
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP] Gmina Czorsztyn  Gmina Czorsztyn is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Nowy Targ County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland, on the Slovak border. It takes its name from the village of Czorsztyn, its former seat (until 1993). The present seat of the gmina is Maniowy, which lies approximately east of Nowy Targ and south of the regional capital Kraków.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 7,201.
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Czorsztyn? [SEP] Maniowy  Maniowy is a village in southern Poland situated in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship about east of Nowy Targ and south of the regional capital Kraków. It has been the seat of the district of Gmina Czorsztyn since 1993.  Located on the southern slopes of the Gorce Mountains, new Maniowy was built in 1970-1980s after having been moved to a higher altitude, from an area upon which Lake Czorsztyn now stretches. The history of the old village reached back to at least 1326 when it was founded during the colonisation of the Podhale region. The present village has a modern architecture of houses with several large buildings (for example Saint Nicholas Church and the gym hall) and is inhabited by over 2000 people. Neighbouring forests, mountains, lake, ski lifts and national parks are tourist attractions in each season of the year. On cloudless days a view of nearby Eastern Tatra Mountains can be seen from the village.
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] 1) Arzbach ; 2) Attenhausen ; 3) Bad Ems ; 4) Becheln ; 5) Dausenau ; 6) Dessighofen ; 7) Dienethal ; 8) Dornholzhausen ; 9) Fachbach ; 10) Frücht ; 11) Geisig ; 12) Hömberg ; 13) Kemmenau ; 14) Lollschied ; 15) Miellen ; 16) Misselberg ; 17) Nievern ; 18) Nassau ; 19) Obernhof ; 20) Oberwies ; 21) Pohl ; 22) Schweighausen ; 23) Seelbach ; 24) Singhofen ; 25) Sulzbach ; 26) Weinähr ; 27) Winden ; 28) Zimmerschied Bad Ems-Nassau is a Verbandsgemeinde ("collective municipality") in the Rhein-Lahn-Kreis, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The seat of the Verbandsgemeinde is in Bad Ems. It was formed on 1 January 2019 by the merger of the former Verbandsgemeinden Bad Ems and Nassau. The Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems-Nassau consists of the following Ortsgemeinden ("local municipalities"):
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP]  Bad Ems is a station in the town of Bad Ems in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate. It is on the Lahn Valley Railway (Koblenz–Wetzlar). The entrance building is heritage-listed.
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] Diez ; Bad Ems-Nassau ; Lahnstein (Verband-free town) ; } Verbandsgemeinden:
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] Osnabrück, cantons: Bramsche, Dissen, Bad Essen, Bad Iburg, Lengerich, Melle, Osnabrück (3 cantons), Ostbevern, Ostercappeln, Tecklenburg and Versmold. ; Minden, cantons: Petershagen, Bünde, Enger, Levern, Lübbecke, Minden, Quernheim, Rahden, Uchte and Werther. ; Quakenbrück, cantons: Ankum, Cloppenburg, Diepholz, Dinklage, Friesoythe, Löningen, Quakenbrück, Vechta, Vörden and Wildeshausen. ; Lingen, cantons: Bevergern, Freren, Fürstenau, Haselünne, Ibbenbüren, Lingen, Meppen, Papenburg and Sögel. Ems-Supérieur (, "Upper Ems"; Ober-Ems) was a department of the First French Empire in present-day Germany. It was formed in 1811, when the region was annexed by France. Its territory was part of the present-day German lands Lower Saxony and North Rhine-Westphalia. Its capital was Osnabrück. The department was subdivided into the following arrondissements and cantons (situation in 1812):  Its population in 1812 was 415,018. After Napoleon was defeated in 1814, most of the department became part of the Kingdom of Hanover.
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP]  The district is located on the Dutch border. It is named after the Ems river, which crosses the region from south to north. It is an absolutely plain countryside, which was once full of fens. The only elevations are in the Hümmling, which is a hilly forest area east of the Ems. Although the Emsland region is nowadays primarily a county among many others in Lower Saxony, its locals have what could be called a distinct sense of regional pride which will unlikely be found elsewhere in this state.
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] Bad Ems (Verbandsgemeinde)  Bad Ems is a former "Verbandsgemeinde" ("collective municipality") in the Rhein-Lahn-Kreis, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. In January 2019 it was merged into the new "Verbandsgemeinde" Bad Ems-Nassau. Its seat was in Bad Ems.  The "Verbandsgemeinde" Bad Ems consisted of the following "Ortsgemeinden" ("local municipalities"):
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] Bad Ems-Nassau  Bad Ems-Nassau is a "Verbandsgemeinde" ("collective municipality") in the Rhein-Lahn-Kreis, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. The seat of the "Verbandsgemeinde" is in Bad Ems. It was formed on 1. January 2019 by the merger of the former "Verbandsgemeinden" Bad Ems and Nassau.  The "Verbandsgemeinde" Bad Ems-Nassau consists of the following "Ortsgemeinden" ("local municipalities"):
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP] Nassau (Verbandsgemeinde)  Nassau is a former "Verbandsgemeinde" ("collective municipality") in the Rhein-Lahn-Kreis, in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. In January 2019 it was merged into the new "Verbandsgemeinde" Bad Ems-Nassau. Its seat was in Nassau.  The "Verbandsgemeinde" Nassau consisted of the following "Ortsgemeinden" ("local municipalities"):
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP]
What is the capital of Verbandsgemeinde Bad Ems? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]  The canton of Gordes is a French former administrative division in the department of Vaucluse and region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 8 communes, which joined the canton of Apt in 2015.
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP] Beaumettes : 194 inhabitants ; Gordes : 2,092 inhabitants ; Goult : 1,285 inhabitants ; Joucas : 317 inhabitants ; Lioux : 248 inhabitants ; Murs : 415 inhabitants ; Roussillon : 1,161 inhabitants ; Saint-Pantaléon : 177 inhabitants The communes in the canton of Gordes:
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]   The commune of Gordes has numerous infrastructures of public utility like the "gendarmerie", the fire brigade, the post office, a tax office, a library, etc.
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]  Goicoechea was created on 6 August 1891 by decree 66.
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]  For the 2011 census, Goicoechea had a population of 115,084 inhabitants.
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP] Canton of Gordes  The canton of Gordes is a French former administrative division in the department of Vaucluse and region Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. It had 5,890 inhabitants (2012). It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It consisted of 8 communes,
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP] Gordes  Gordes (; ) is a commune in the Vaucluse département in the Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur region in southeastern France. The residents are known as "Gordiens." The nearest big city is Avignon; smaller cities nearby include Cavaillon, L'Isle-sur-la-Sorgue and Apt.
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Gordes? [SEP] Vaucluse  Vaucluse (; or ) is a department in the southeastern French region of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur. It had a population of 561,469 as of 2019. The department's prefecture is Avignon.  It is named after a spring, the Fontaine de Vaucluse, one of the largest karst springs in the world. The name Vaucluse itself derives from the Latin ("closed valley") as the valley ends in a cliff face from which the spring emanates.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]  Andrespol (Andreasfeld) is a village in Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Andrespol. It lies approximately 14 km south-east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 3,367.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]  Nowy Bedoń is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Andrespol, within Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north-east of Andrespol and 14 km south-east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 439. This village is the only one in Poland which has an inclined lake with five-kilo doves flying over. It's an attraction known to tourists around the world. Bedoń also has train-adapted roundabouts where trains can make a u-turn.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]  Bedoń Przykościelny is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Andrespol, within Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 2 km north of Andrespol and 13 km south-east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 1,289.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]  Janówka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Andrespol, within Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north-east of Andrespol and 16 km east of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 665.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]  Bedoń-Wieś is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Andrespol, within Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 3 km north of Andrespol and 13 km east of the regional capital Łódź, and it is known for its rich history of wine making. The village has a population of 346.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP] Andrespol  Andrespol () is a village in Łódź East County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Andrespol. It lies approximately south-east of the regional capital Łódź.  The village has a population of 3,367.  On October 20, 1807 Magdalena von Jordan-Tuchecka from Bedón signed a settlement agreement with 29 settler families of Low German descent from Pomerania. The settlers had already come to the region during the Prussian rule (1793-1806), probably around 1805. The newly created village was initially given the German name Andreasfeld. It consisted of 29 hooves for the settlers, other hooves were to be divided between the teacher and the village mayor. The colonists were promised six years of freedom from taxation during which they were to clear their land and build residential and commercial buildings from their own funds.   In 1807 the region had become a part of the newly established Duchy of Warsaw and from 1815 it was part of Congress Poland. The Protestant church was destroyed 1945.
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Andrespol? [SEP]
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]  Vozhegodsky District (Вожего́дский райо́н) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-six in Vologda Oblast, Russia. It is located in the north of the oblast and borders with Konoshsky District of Arkhangelsk Oblast in the north, Verkhovazhsky District in the east, Syamzhensky District in the southeast, Kharovsky District in the south, Ust-Kubinsky District in the southwest, and with Kirillovsky District in the west. The area of the district is 5500 km2. Its administrative center is the urban locality (a work settlement) of Vozhega. Population: 18,976 (2002 Census);  The population of Vozhega accounts for 40.1% of the district's total population.
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]  Timber industry and food industry are present in the district.
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]  The district contains seventy objects classified as cultural and historical heritage of local significance. Most of these are wooden farms and chapels built prior to 1917. The only state museum in the district is the Vozhega Regional Museum, located in the settlement of Vozhega.
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]  There are fifteen farms in the district which breed cattle, produce meat and milk, and grow crops, mostly to feed cattle.
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]  (west) and Kadnikovsky Uyezd of Vologda Governorate (east). The area was sparsely populated until the end of the 19th century, due to its remote location from all the trade routes connecting Northern Russia with the White Sea. In 1894, the construction of the railway line between Vologda and Arkhangelsk started. The railway was planned to run over the shortest route rather than pass through existing settlements, and it was eventually built through the present area of the district. Vozhega was founded in 1895 as a railway station. In 1918, five uyezds of Novgorod Governorate, including Kirillovsky Uyezd, were split off to form Cherepovets Governorate. In
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP] Vozhegodsky District  Vozhegodsky District () is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-six in Vologda Oblast, Russia. It is located in the north of the oblast and borders with Konoshsky District of Arkhangelsk Oblast in the north, Verkhovazhsky District in the east, Syamzhensky District in the southeast, Kharovsky District in the south, Ust-Kubinsky District in the southwest, and with Kirillovsky District in the west. The area of the district is . Its administrative center is the urban locality (a work settlement) of Vozhega. Population: 18,976 (2002 Census); The population of Vozhega accounts for 40.1% of the district's total population.<ref name="2010Census" />
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP] Fominskaya, Vozhegodsky District, Vologda Oblast  Fominskaya () is a rural locality (a village) in Yavengskoye Rural Settlement, Vozhegodsky District, Vologda Oblast, Russia. The population was 2 as of 2002.
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Vozhegodsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou is an arrondissement of France in the Eure-et-Loir department in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It has 48 communes. Its population is 36,035 (2016), and its area is 811.1 km2.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP] 1) Authon-du-Perche ; 2) La Loupe ; 3) Nogent-le-Rotrou ; 4) Thiron-Gardais The arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou was created in 1800, disbanded in 1926 and restored in 1943. As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou were, as of January 2015:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]  ; 26) Luigny (28219) ; 27) Manou (28232) ; 28) Marolles-les-Buis (28237) ; 29) Meaucé (28240) ; 30) Miermaigne (28252) ; 31) Montigny-le-Chartif (28261) ; 32) Montireau (28264) ; 33) Montlandon (28265) ; 34) Moulhard (28273) ; 35) Nogent-le-Rotrou (28280) ; 36) Nonvilliers-Grandhoux (28282) ; 37) Saint-Bomer (28327) ; 38) Saint-Éliph (28335) ; 39) Saintigny (28331) ; 40) Saint-Jean-Pierre-Fixte (28342) ; 41) Saint-Maurice-Saint-Germain (28354) ; 42) Saint-Victor-de-Buthon (28362) ; 43) Souancé-au-Perche (28378) ; 44) Le Thieulin (28385) ; 45) Thiron-Gardais (28387) ; 46) Trizay-Coutretot-Saint-Serge (28395) ; 47) Vaupillon (28401) ; 48) Vichères (28407) The communes of the arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou, and their INSEE codes, are:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]  In 1800 the arrondissements of Chartres, Châteaudun, Dreux and Nogent-le-Rotrou were established. The arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou was disbanded in 1926, and restored in 1943.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Nogent-sur-Marne is an arrondissement of France in the Val-de-Marne departement in the Île-de-France region. It has 14 communes. Its population is 508,854 (2016), and its area is 56.3 km2.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP] Arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou  The arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou is an arrondissement of France in the Eure-et-Loir department in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It has 48 communes.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP] Nogent-le-Rotrou  Nogent-le-Rotrou () is a commune in the Eure-et-Loir department in northern France.  It is a sub-prefecture and is located on the river Huisne, 56 kilometres west of Chartres on the RN23 and 150 kilometres south west of Paris, to which it is linked by both rail and motorway. It was the former capital of the Perche with the count living in the impressive medieval Château Saint-Jean which still dominates the town from a plateau of the same name.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP] Arrondissements of the Eure-et-Loir department  The 4 arrondissements of the Eure-et-Loir department are:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Nogent-le-Rotrou? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Lannion is an arrondissement of France in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the Brittany region. It has 57 communes. Its population is 99,903 (2016), and its area is 904.4 km2.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP] 1) Lannion ; 2) Lézardrieux ; 3) Perros-Guirec ; 4) Plestin-les-Grèves ; 5) Plouaret ; 6) La Roche-Derrien ; 7) Tréguier The arrondissement of Lannion was created in 1800. As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Lannion were, as of January 2015:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP] 1) Berhet (22006) ; 2) Camlez (22028) ; 3) Caouënnec-Lanvézéac (22030) ; 4) Cavan (22034) ; 5) Coatascorn (22041) ; 6) Coatréven (22042) ; 7) Kerbors (22085) ; 8) Kermaria-Sulard (22090) ; 9) Langoat (22101) ; 10) Lanmérin (22110) ; 11) Lanmodez (22111) ; 12) Lannion (22113) ; 13) Lanvellec (22119) ; 14) Lézardrieux (22127) ; 15) Loguivy-Plougras (22131) ; 16) Louannec (22134) ; 17) Mantallot (22141) ; 18) Minihy-Tréguier (22152) ; 19) Penvénan (22166) ; 20) Perros-Guirec (22168) ; 21) Plestin-les-Grèves (22194) ; 22) Pleubian (22195) ; 23) Pleudaniel (22196) ; 24) Pleumeur-Bodou (22198) ; 25) Pleumeur-Gautier (22199) ; 26) Plouaret (22207) ; 27) Ploubezre (22211) ; 28) Plougras (22217) ; 29) Plougrescant (22218) ; 30) Plouguiel (22221) ;
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]  Lannion (Lannuon) is a commune in the Côtes-d'Armor department in Brittany in northwestern France. It is a subprefecture of Côtes-d'Armor, the capital of Trégor and the center of an urban area of almost 60,000 inhabitants.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]  Inhabitants of Lannion are called lannionnais in French.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP] Arrondissement of Lannion  The arrondissement of Lannion is an arrondissement of France in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the Brittany region. It has 57 communes.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP] Lannion  Lannion ( ; ) is a commune in the Côtes-d'Armor department in Brittany in northwestern France. It is a subprefecture of Côtes-d'Armor, the capital of Trégor and the center of an urban area of almost 60,000 inhabitants.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Lannion? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]  The canton of Mirambeau contained 19 communes and had 7,815 inhabitants (2012).
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]  The Canton of Mirambeau is a former canton of the Charente-Maritime département, in France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. The lowest point is the Atlantic Ocean at the commune of Saint-Sorlin-de-Conac, the highest point is at Salignac-de-Mirambeau at 111 m, the average or the centre is 46 m. The least populated commune is Semillac with 52 and the most populated commune is Mirambeau with 1,461.
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]  Mira Canton is a canton of Ecuador, located in Carchi Province. Its capital is the town of Mira. Its population in the 2001 census was 12,919 and was 12,180 in the 2010 census. The area is 588 sqkm. The canton is located in the Andes and western foothills of the Andes on the upper tributaries of the Mira River. The town of Mira has an elevation of 2423 m above sea level. The parishes in the canton are Concepción, Jijón y Caamańo, Juan Montalvo (San Ignacio de Quil), and Mira (Chontahuasi).
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]  Mirambeau is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in southwestern France. Mirambeau is situated on the Via Turonensis, the ancient pilgrimage route from Paris to Santiago de Compostela via Tours.
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]  Mirambeau is a commune in the Haute-Garonne department in southwestern France.
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP] Canton of Mirambeau  The Canton of Mirambeau is a former canton of the Charente-Maritime "département", in France. It was disbanded following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015. It had 7,815 inhabitants (2012). The lowest point is the Atlantic Ocean at the commune of Saint-Sorlin-de-Conac, the highest point is at Salignac-de-Mirambeau at 111 m, the average or the centre is 46 m. The most populated commune was Mirambeau with 1,491 inhabitants (2012).<ref name=pop2012/>
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP] Mirambeau  Mirambeau may refer to the following places in France:
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP]
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP] Mirambeau, Haute-Garonne  Mirambeau (; ) is a commune in the Haute-Garonne department in southwestern France.
What is the capital of canton of Mirambeau? [SEP] Saint-Martial-de-Mirambeau  Saint-Martial-de-Mirambeau (, literally "Saint-Martial of Mirambeau") is a commune in the Charente-Maritime department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in southwestern France.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP]  Saanen (Gessenay) is a municipality in the canton of Bern in Switzerland. It is the capital of the Obersimmental-Saanen administrative district.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP]  Saanen District was one of the 26 administrative districts in the canton of Bern, Switzerland. Its capital was the municipality of Saanen. The district had an area of 241 km² and consisted of 3 municipalities:
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP]  Saanen is twinned with:
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP]  Saanen has a population of. , 24.6% of the population are resident foreign nationals. Over the last 10 years (2000–2010) the population has changed at a rate of 5.4%. Migration accounted for 6.1%, while births and deaths accounted for 1.4%. Most of the population speaks German (5,676 or 82.1%) as their first language, French is the second most common (247 or 3.6%) and Portuguese is the third (239 or 3.5%). There are 120 people who speak Italian and 5 people who speak Romansh. , the population was 50.2% male and 49.8% female. The population was made up of 2,584 Swiss men (37.2% of the population) and 906
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP]  Saanen has an area of. Of this area, 61.4 km2 or 51.3% is used for agricultural purposes, while 42.21 km2 or 35.3% is forested. Of the rest of the land, 5.46 km2 or 4.6% is settled (buildings or roads), 0.68 km2 or 0.6% is either rivers or lakes and 9.99 km2 or 8.3% is unproductive land. Of the built up area, housing and buildings made up 2.4% and transportation infrastructure made up 1.4%. Out of the forested land, 27.6% of the total land area is heavily forested and 5.5% is covered with orchards or small clusters of trees. Of the agricultural land, 15.3% is pastures and 35.9% is used for alpine pastures. All the water in the municipality is flowing water. Of the unproductive areas, 4.8% is unproductive vegetation and 3.5% is too rocky for vegetation. The municipality is located in the upper Saane valley. It consists of the economic center and district capital, the village of Saanen along with the villages of Gstaad, Abländschen, Bissen, Ebnit, Gruben, Grund, Kalberhöni, Saanen, Saanenmöser, Schönried, and Turbach.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP] Saanen District  Saanen District was one of the 26 administrative districts in the canton of Bern, Switzerland. Its capital was the municipality of Saanen. The district had an area of 241 km² and consisted of 3 municipalities:
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP] Saanen  Saanen (; Highest Alemannic: "Saanä") is a municipality in the canton of Bern in Switzerland. It is the capital of the Obersimmental-Saanen administrative district.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP] Obersimmental-Saanen (administrative district)  Obersimmental-Saanen District in the Canton of Bern was created on 1 January 2010. It is part of the Oberland administrative region. It contains 7 municipalities with an area of and a population () of 16,784.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP] Gstaad  Gstaad ( ; ) is a town in the German-speaking section of the Canton of Bern in southwestern Switzerland. It is part of the municipality of Saanen and is known as a major ski resort and a popular destination amongst high society and the international jet set. The winter campus of the Institut Le Rosey is located in Gstaad. Gstaad has a population of about 9,200 and is located above sea level.
What is the capital of Saanen District? [SEP] Canton of Bern  The canton of Bern or Berne (; ; ; ) is one of the 26 cantons forming the Swiss Confederation. Its capital city, Bern, is also the "de facto" capital of Switzerland. The bear is the heraldic symbol of the canton, displayed on a red-yellow background.  Comprising ten districts, Bern is the second-largest canton by both surface area and population. Located in west-central Switzerland, it is surrounded by eleven cantons. It borders the canton of Jura and the canton of Solothurn to the north. To the west lie the canton of Neuchâtel, the canton of Fribourg and canton of Vaud. To the south lies the canton of Valais. East of the canton of Bern lie the cantons of Uri, Nidwalden, Obwalden, Lucerne and Aargau. The geography of the canton includes a large share of all three natural regions of Switzerland: the Jura Mountains (the Bernese Jura), the Swiss Plateau (the Bernese Mittelland) and the Alps (the Bernese Oberland).  The canton of Bern is bilingual, officially German- and French-speaking, and has a population (as of ) of . The largest city, Bern, is also the seat of the federal government of Switzerland. Other major cities are Thun and Biel/Bienne. The canton is also renowned for its numerous Alpine resort towns, notably Interlaken and Gstaad.  Formerly part of the Holy Roman Empire, the canton of Bern entered an alliance with the Swiss Forest Cantons in 1323 and joined the Old Swiss Confederacy in 1353.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP]  Plaza Mayor is a town square in Segovia, Spain, located at the end of the street called Calle Real, which is one of the most famous streets in Segovia. Within Plaza Mayor, you can find several important buildings, such as the town hall, the Juan Bravo Theatre, the San Miguel Church, and the cathedral.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP]  The Plaza Mayor or Plaza de Armas of Lima, is the birthplace of the city of Lima, as well as the core of the city. Located in the Historic Centre of Lima, it is surrounded by the Government Palace, Cathedral of Lima, Archbishop's Palace of Lima, the Municipal Palace, and the Palace of the Union.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP]   Plaza de la Ciudadanía (, Citizenry Square) is a public square located in the southern façade of the Palacio de La Moneda (Chile's presidential palace) in Santiago. It used to be part of the grass garden and parking area of the Palace. Construction began in November 2004, as part of the Bicentennial Projects (a series of public works initiated by the executive branch all over the country for the purpose of celebrating the nation's 200 years of independence). The first stage of the works, inaugurated in January 2006, featured as centerpiece the Centro Cultural Palacio de La Moneda ("La Moneda Palace Culture Centre"), a large underground cultural facility, as well as two water mirrors, two lines of fountains, a new underground parking area and the relocation of the statue of former-president Alessandri.  In the future, the nearby Alameda Avenue will go underground, allowing to connect the Plaza directly with the Paseo Bulnes (Bulnes Boulevard), respecting the original design of the Barrio Cívico de Santiago ("Civic Quarter"), with a grand perspective from the Palace and other government buildings down the Boulevard. This third phase of the project is still pending final approval.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP]  The Plaza de los Fueros is a plaza or square located in the city centre of Vitoria-Gasteiz, which is the capital of the Basque Country, Spain. It was built in 1979 in memory of the county code of laws named fuero in Spanish.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP]  Plaza de Cagancha, or Plaza Cagancha, also known as Plaza Libertad, is a square of the Uruguayan capital, Montevideo. It is located on Montevideo's main avenue, 18 de Julio Avenue, in the barrio of Centro.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP] Capital Plaza Mall  Capital Plaza Mall (the region now known as simply "Capital Plaza") was a shopping mall located at the intersection of Annapolis Road (Maryland Route 450) and the Baltimore–Washington Parkway in Landover Hills, Maryland. It was built between 1961 and 1963, as a regional shopping center to serve the Bladensburg and Landover area of suburban Washington, D.C. The mall was a major attraction in Prince George's County, until its slow decline that began in the 1970s. This continued until the mall's closure in 2005, and ultimately its demolition in 2007. Part of the grounds are now occupied by a Wal-Mart store.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP] Capital Plaza  Capital Plaza is a building complex with five high-rise buildings in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Capital Plaza is located directly on the Corniche of Abu Dhabi and includes three residential towers, an office tower and a hotel tower.  The property was developed by Reisco; the facility management of the building complex has been carried out by Dussmann Middle East GmbH, a subsidiary of the German Dussmann Group. There are 247 apartments (towers A, B, C) in the building. The hotel tower houses the 283-room Sofitel Abu Dhabi Corniche, which opened in March 2012. The base of the building complex includes the hotel lobby, restaurants and a few shops.  The office tower includes the Middle East's first double-deck elevator with a destination control system.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP] Capital Plaza Office Tower (Frankfort, Kentucky)  The Capital Plaza Office Tower was a 338-foot tall, 28-story office skyscraper located on 500 Mero Street in Frankfort, Kentucky. It was the tallest building in Frankfort, Kentucky and the 11th tallest building in the state of Kentucky.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP] Empire State Plaza  The Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza (known commonly as the Empire State Plaza, and also as the South Mall) is a complex of several state government buildings in downtown Albany, New York.  The complex was built between 1965 and 1976 at an estimated total cost of $2 billion. It houses several departments of the New York State administration and is integrated with the New York State Capitol, completed in 1899, which houses the state legislature. Among the offices at the plaza are the Department of Health and the Biggs Laboratory of the Wadsworth Center. The Empire State Art Collection, a major public collection of 1960s and 1970s monumental abstract artworks, is on permanent display throughout the site. The New York State Office of General Services maintains the plaza. The Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza Performing Arts Center Corporation is a New York state public-benefit corporation that was created in 1979 to manage the performing arts facility in the plaza.
What is the capital of Plaza? [SEP] Capital Bank Plaza  Capital Bank Plaza is a skyscraper in Raleigh, North Carolina which houses the headquarters of Capital Bank. Formerly known as 333 Corporate Plaza, the 15-story building at 333 Fayetteville Street has of space  Emery Roth designed the building, built in 1964. KB Fund IV of California bought the building in 1997 and sold it to Modern Continental of Cambridge, Massachusetts in 2000. Raleigh Development bought the building in 2004, and McKinney & Silver soon left its to move to Durham. On November 2, 2005, Capital Bank announced plans to move to five floors in the building and rename it Capital Bank Center, putting the bank's name on top. The move gave downtown Raleigh its first bank headquarters since First Citizens moved to a suburban location 15 years earlier.  Capital Bank announced it would lease two floors of the ten-story One Glenwood in Raleigh. The lease included a sign on the building.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Florac is an arrondissement of France in the Lozère department in the Occitanie région. Its INSEE code is 481 and its capital city is Florac-Trois-Rivières. Its population is 13,242 (2016), and its area is 1687.5 km2. It is the smallest and southernmost of the two arrondissements of the department. There is only one town with more than 1,000 inhabitants: Florac, with 1,958 inhabitants.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP]  The arrondissement of Florac is surrounded by the arrondissement of Mende to the north, by the Gard department to the east and south, and by the Aveyron department to the west.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP] 1) Barre-des-Cévennes ; 2) Florac ; 3) Le Massegros ; 4) Meyrueis ; 5) Le Pont-de-Montvert ; 6) Sainte-Enimie ; 7) Saint-Germain-de-Calberte The arrondissement of Florac was created in 1800. As a result of the reorganisation of the cantons of France which came into effect in 2015, the borders of the cantons are no longer related to the borders of the arrondissements. The cantons of the arrondissement of Florac were, as of January 2015:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP] 1) Arrondissement of Florac, (subprefecture: Florac-Trois-Rivières) with 38 communes.  The population of the arrondissement was 13,242 in 2016. ; 2) Arrondissement of Mende, (prefecture of the Lozère department: Mende) with 114 communes.  The population of the arrondissement was 63,180 in 2016. The two arrondissements of the Lozère department are:
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP]  In 1800 the arrondissements of Mende, Florac and Marvejols were established. The arrondissement of Marvejols was disbanded in 1926.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP] Arrondissement of Florac  The arrondissement of Florac is an arrondissement of France in the Lozère department in the Occitanie région. Its INSEE code is 481 and its capital city is Florac-Trois-Rivières. Its population is 13,242 (2016), and its area is .  It is the smallest and southernmost of the two arrondissements of the department. There is only one town with more than 1,000 inhabitants: Florac Trois Rivières, with 2,067 inhabitants.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP] Florac  Florac is a former commune of the Lozère department in southern France. On 1 January 2016, it was merged into the new commune of Florac-Trois-Rivières.
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP] Arrondissement of Mende  The arrondissement of Mende is an arrondissement of France in the Lozère department in the Occitanie région. Its INSEE code is 482 and its capital city, and prefecture of the department, is Mende. Its population is 63,180 (2016), and its area is .  The only important city is Mende with 12,318 people living there in 2019. Other towns are Marvejols (4,684) and Saint-Chély-d'Apcher (4,211).
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP]
What is the capital of arrondissement of Florac? [SEP]
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP]  Yalutorovsky District  (Ялу́торовский райо́н) is an administrative district (raion), one of the twenty-two in Tyumen Oblast, Russia. Within the framework of municipal divisions, it is incorporated as Yalutorovsky Municipal District. It is located in the west of the oblast. The area of the district is 2800 km2. Its administrative center is the town of Yalutorovsk (which is not administratively a part of the district). Population: 14,461 (2010 Census);
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP]  Within the framework of administrative divisions, Yalutorovsky District is one of the twenty-two in the oblast. The town of Yalutorovsk serves as its administrative center, despite being incorporated separately as an administrative unit with the status equal to that of the districts. As a municipal division, the district is incorporated as Yalutorovsky Municipal District. The Town of Yalutorovsk is incorporated separately from the district as Yalutorovsk Urban Okrug.
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP] Yalutorovsky District, a district of Tyumen Oblast, Russia ; Yalutorovsky, former name of the town of Yalutorovsk, Tyumen Oblast, Russia Yalutorovsky (masculine), Yalutorovskaya (feminine), or Yalutorovskoye (neuter) may refer to:
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP]  Yashaltinsky District (Яшалти́нский райо́н;, Jašltan rajon) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the thirteen in the Republic of Kalmykia, Russia. It is located in the west of the republic. The area of the district is 2415.84 km2. Its administrative center is the rural locality (a selo) of Yashalta. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 17,178, with the population of Yashalta accounting for 27.5% of that number.
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP]  Yashkulsky District (Яшку́льский райо́н;, Jaškulin rajon) is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the thirteen in the Republic of Kalmykia, Russia. It is located in the center and east of the republic. The area of the district is 11769.31 km2. Its administrative center is the rural locality (a settlement) of Yashkul. As of the 2010 Census, the total population of the district was 15,270, with the population of Yashkul accounting for 51.5% of that number.
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP] Yalutorovsky District  Yalutorovsky District () is an administrative district (raion), one of the twenty-two in Tyumen Oblast, Russia. Within the framework of municipal divisions, it is incorporated as Yalutorovsky Municipal District. It is located in the west of the oblast. The area of the district is . Its administrative center is the town of Yalutorovsk (which is not administratively a part of the district).
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP] Yalutorovsky  Yalutorovsky (masculine), Yalutorovskaya (feminine), or Yalutorovskoye (neuter) may refer to:
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP] Khokhlovo  Khokhlovo () is the name of several inhabited localities (work settlements, villages, selos, and pochinoks) in Russia.
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP] Yalutorovsk  Yalutorovsk () is a town in Tyumen Oblast, Russia, located on the Tobol River southeast of Tyumen. Population:
What is the capital of Yalutorovsky District? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]  Gmina Osiecznica is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Bolesławiec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Its seat is the village of Osiecznica, which lies approximately 13 km north-west of Bolesławiec and 116 km west of the regional capital Wrocław. The gmina covers an area of 437.07 km2, and as of 2019 its total population is 7,396.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]  Osiecznica  is a village in Bolesławiec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It is the seat of the administrative district (gmina) called Gmina Osiecznica. It lies approximately 13 km north-west of Bolesławiec, and 116 km west of the regional capital Wrocław. The village has a population of 1,000. From 1975 to 1998 Osiecznica was in Jelenia Góra Voivodeship.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]  Gmina Osiecznica is bordered by the gminas of Bolesławiec, Iłowa, Małomice, Nowogrodziec, Szprotawa, Węgliniec and Żagań.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]  Gmina Osieczna is an urban-rural gmina (administrative district) in Leszno County, Greater Poland Voivodeship, in west-central Poland. Its seat is the town of Osieczna, which lies approximately 10 km north-east of Leszno and 58 km south of the regional capital Poznań. The gmina covers an area of 128.73 km2, and as of 2006 its total population is 8,576 (out of which the population of Osieczna amounts to 2,018, and the population of the rural part of the gmina is 6,558).
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]  The gmina contains the villages of Bronowiec, Długokąty, Jelenie Rogi, Jeziory, Kliczków, Ławszowa, Luboszów, Ołobok, Osiecznica, Osieczów, Parowa, Poświętne, Przejęsław, Świętoszów and Tomisław.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP] Gmina Osiecznica  Gmina Osiecznica is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Bolesławiec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. Its seat is the village of Osiecznica, which lies approximately north-west of Bolesławiec and west of the regional capital Wrocław.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2019 its total population is 7,396.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP] Osiecznica, Lower Silesian Voivodeship  Osiecznica () is a village in Bolesławiec County, Lower Silesian Voivodeship, in south-western Poland. It is the seat of the administrative district (gmina) called Gmina Osiecznica. It lies approximately north-west of Bolesławiec, and west of the regional capital Wrocław.  The village has a population of 1,000.  From 1975 to 1998 Osiecznica was in Jelenia Góra Voivodeship.
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Osiecznica? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]  Radomsko is a town in southern Poland with 45,353 inhabitants (2020). It is situated on the Radomka river in the Łódź Voivodeship (since 1999), having previously been in Piotrków Trybunalski Voivodeship (1975–1998). It is the county seat of Radomsko county.
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]  Radomsko County (powiat radomszczański) is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Łódź Voivodeship, central Poland. It came into being on 1 January 1999 as a result of the Polish local government reforms passed in 1998. Its administrative seat and largest town is Radomsko, which lies 80 km south of the regional capital Łódź. The county also contains the towns of Przedbórz, lying 31 km east of Radomsko, and Kamieńsk, 16 km north of Radomsko. The county covers an area of 1442.78 km2. As of 2006, it had a total population of 118,856, out of which the population of Radomsko was 49,152, that of Przedbórz was 3,758, that of Kamieńsk was 2,858, and the rural population was 63,088.
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]  The county is subdivided into 14 gminas (one urban, two urban-rural and 11 rural). These are listed in the following table, in descending order of population.
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP] RKS Radomsko, football club, founded in 1979. It competes in the lower leagues, although in the past it played in the Ekstraklasa (Poland's top division).
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]  Rudka is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Wielgomłyny, within Radomsko County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 5 km east of Wielgomłyny, 28 km east of Radomsko, and 90 km south of the regional capital Łódź. The village has a population of 400.
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP] Radomsko County  Radomsko County () is a unit of territorial administration and local government (powiat) in Łódź Voivodeship, central Poland. It came into being on 1 January 1999 as a result of the Polish local government reforms passed in 1998. Its administrative seat and largest town is Radomsko, which lies south of the regional capital Łódź. The county also contains the towns of Przedbórz, lying east of Radomsko, and Kamieńsk, north of Radomsko.  The county covers an area of . As of 2006, it had a total population of 118,856, out of which the population of Radomsko was 49,152, that of Przedbórz was 3,758, that of Kamieńsk was 2,858, and the rural population was 63,088.
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Radomsko? [SEP] Gmina Radomsko  Gmina Radomsko is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Radomsko County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. Its seat is the town of Radomsko, although the town is not part of the territory of the gmina.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 5,653.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]  Babice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Lutomiersk, within Pabianice County, Łódź Voivodeship, in central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km north-east of Lutomiersk, 16 km north-west of Pabianice, and 16 km west of the regional capital Łódź.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]  Babice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Trojanów, within Garwolin County, Masovian Voivodeship, in east-central Poland. It lies approximately 4 km east of Trojanów, 28 km south-east of Garwolin, and 83 km south-east of Warsaw.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]  Babice (Ба́бичі) is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Krzywcza, within Przemyśl County, Subcarpathian Voivodeship, in south-eastern Poland. It lies approximately 6 km west of Krzywcza, 22 km west of Przemyśl, and 41 km south-east of the regional capital Rzeszów. The village has a population of 310.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]  Babice is a village in Chrzanów County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland. It is the seat of the gmina (administrative district) called Gmina Babice. It lies approximately 8 km south-east of Chrzanów and 36 km west of the regional capital Kraków. The village was founded on April 2, 1866 and has a population of 1,369.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]  Babice is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Obsza, within Biłgoraj County, Lublin Voivodeship, in eastern Poland. It lies approximately 5 km north-west of Obsza, 27 km south-east of Biłgoraj, and 103 km south of the regional capital Lublin. The village has a population of 966.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP] Gmina Babice  Gmina Babice is a rural gmina (administrative district) in Chrzanów County, Lesser Poland Voivodeship, in southern Poland. Its seat is the village of Babice, which lies approximately south-east of Chrzanów and west of the regional capital Kraków.  The gmina covers an area of , and as of 2006 its total population is 8,803.  The gmina contains part of the protected area called Tenczynek Landscape Park.
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]
What is the capital of Gmina Babice? [SEP]